

1 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Sleepy, Want to Buy a Good Nap?

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
ALEXIUS OTTO, a junior at Hunter College in Manhattan, has a perfectly good bed in his apartment in the East Village. But twice over the last month he has paid to take short snoozes at Yelo, a new salon on West 57th Street that sells anxious New Yorkers the promise of a brief but cocooning sleep.
 Yelo consists of seven private chambers that can be rented for 20- to 40-minute naps. Each hexagonal pod has a beige leather recliner, dimmed lighting, a soporific soundtrack and a blanket of Nepalese cashmere. Clients may also book reflexology treatments, designed to lull the body to sleep, for their hands or feet starting at $65.
On a recent Thursday, Mr. Otto lounged on a bench in Yelo's lobby, waiting for a sleeping pod to become available. He was hoping that a nap in a cubicle far from the distractions of home would help balance his chaotic college life. He often forgoes sleep in favor of studying, meeting friends and looking for part-time work, he said. 
 ''I'm going out tonight to meet someone about a job,'' said Mr. Otto, who was visiting a friend nearby and had dropped in for a 20-minute nap. Cost: $12. ''The nap will help refocus me.''
 Sleep is the new bottled water. Although it can be had free, it is increasingly being marketed as an upscale amenity. Nationwide, sales of prescription sleeping medications reached about $3 billion in the first nine months of last year, according to IMS Health, a healthcare research firm. That does not include the more than $20 billion spent on nocturnal accouterments like pillowtop mattresses, adjustable beds, hypoallergenic pillows, white-noise machines and monogrammed cashmere pajamas.
 And now, at a time when spas are treating everything from acne to smoking addiction, sleep is becoming a province of the wellness industry. Spa Finder, a company that compiles spa directories and publishes Luxury Spa Finder magazine, is forecasting sleep as a top spa trend for 2007.
 ''More clients are talking about it and more spas are offering treatments,'' said Susie Ellis, the president of Spa Finder. ''We are starting to see some spas doing sleep medicine or sleep education programs while others are creating sleep environments with enhanced bedding and wake-up systems that don't involve loud alarm clocks.''
 But do Americans truly need more sleep? An often-quoted estimate from the National Center on Sleep Disorders Research of the National Institutes of Health said that up to 70 million Americans -- almost one out of three adults -- have some kind of sleep problem.
 But the Center for the Advancement of Health, a nonprofit group in Washington that advocates using science as a basis for making health decisions, has criticized the statistic in its newsletter, saying that it is based more on extrapolation than on hard epidemiological data.
 Jessie Gruman, the president of the center, likened the occasional sleepless night to adolescence, menopause and balding, calling them all ''normal human conditions that have become medicalized.''
 ''Now when people can't sleep for a couple of nights, they think they are part of a national sleep epidemic and there should be something to fix it,'' Ms. Gruman said. ''You can buy sexual arousal, a new shape for your face, a skinnier silhouette, so why shouldn't you be able to buy sleep?''
 According to TNS Media Intelligence, pharmaceutical companies spent almost $362 million in the first nine months of last year on advertisements for the most popular sleeping pills, marketing the idea that interrupted sleep or the lack of instantaneous sleep are alarming conditions that require intervention.
 Sleep is the top concern among her clientele of hypercompetitive stockbrokers, time-pressed mothers and overworked students, said Abby Fazio, the chief pharmacist and an owner of New London Pharmacy on Eighth Avenue in Chelsea.
 ''The No. 1 question I get is: 'How can I fall asleep without a prescription?' '' said Ms. Fazio, who counsels clients in a small frosted-glass room behind shelves stocked with homeopathic remedies. ''Back when I started working here as a student in the 1970s, only the elderly were on sleeping aids, but now it's everybody ages 25 to 40.'' 
 There are no end of products to treat self-diagnosed sleep problems. Ms. Fazio recommends nonprescription melatonin pills as well as herbal items that contain lavender or chamomile and are meant to induce calm before bedtime, leading to a more restful sleep, she said.
 Well-known cosmetics and toiletry brands have also starting selling sleep. Dove has introduced Calming Night, a line of honey-infused products like soap and body wash. And Boots, the brand from the British chemist that Target sells, has created Sleep, an aromatherapy line that includes a lavender bath milk and a balm to be rubbed on the hands or temples.
 But such products may provide more of a Proustian experience than quantifiably improved sleep.
 ''If your grandmother used lavender and you associate it with feeling safe, calm, loved and ready to go to sleep, then a lavender product will be fantastic for you,'' said Sandra Cox, a formulation scientist at Boots. ''But proving how the essential oils work on the brain is very difficult to do in clinical studies.''
 Spas, too, have found a growing market.
 Canyon Ranch was a pioneer in the field, introducing a sleep program in 1995. The company's spas in Tucson and Lenox, Mass., offer work-ups with a doctor to determine the cause of sleep disturbances. Treatments include therapy to change sleep patterns, and breathing, meditation or visualization exercises to help reduce anxiety. The spas also offer treatments like aromatherapy massages.
 ''Counting sheep works for some people, lavender works for other people, and other people respond to breathing techniques,'' said Dr. Karen Koffler, a specialist in integrative medicine who is the medical director at Canyon Ranch Living, Miami Beach, a residential property scheduled to open later this year. ''The thing is to find the method that works for you.''
 Other spas concentrate on nighttime pampering.
 Lake Austin Spa Resort, for example, offers a ''Texas Starry Night'' treatment, an evening massage using lavender oil. Tracy York, the general manager, said the spa is developing a facial to be called ''Night Night'' and is considering issuing clients chamomile teabags to put over their eyes before sleep or aromatherapy ''sleep patches'' for the skin. 
 And now, for urbanites unable to travel to a remote lakeside spa for beauty sleep, there is the Yelo salon in Midtown where a reflexology treatment for the hands followed by a 20-minute nap costs $77.
 Just don't call it a sleep spa.
 ''It's a corporate wellness center,'' said Nicolas Ronco, the entrepreneur who opened Yelo in early January. ''For people who are overstressed and overworked, for lawyers or brokers who abuse themselves, a power nap is a way to recharge naturally without caffeine.''
 Yelo is designed for the harried, BlackBerry-toting, Bluetooth-connected executive in search of high-tech hibernation. It is not the first place where an urban animal can cuddle up and doze off. In Manhattan, a sleep salon called MetroNaps, with chairs encased in spherical hoods, opened in the Empire State Building in 2004, followed by a second location downtown. Some offices also provide places for employees to doze off.
 On Yelo's Web site, heloyelo.com, and in its salon window, a display charts the minutes until the next ''YeloCab'' (napping booth) is available. Clients pay for a time slot and are then escorted to a private pod for a relaxation treatment or a quick nap. 
 Inside the pods, clients can electronically adjust the angle of the leather recliners; Mr. Ronco recommended raising the leg rest above the head to slow one's heart rate. When time runs out, ceiling lights gradually brighten, an awakening prompt meant to mimic dawn.
 Mr. Ronco predicted that Yelo would appeal to commuters who want to stay in Manhattan for a late dinner and to club-goers seeking respite before a night out.
 ''I see 25 Yelo centers in New York, and then in every crazy low-quality-of-life city where people lack space,'' Mr. Ronco said. ''I see this in airports, malls, corporate offices and train stations.''
 But are naps the best way for the sleep-challenged to catch up? 
 Dr. William C. Dement, the founder of the Stanford University sleep research center, thinks so, recommending them as a way to treat sleep deprivation, according to his book ''The Promise of Sleep.''
 Dr. Gerard T. Lombardo, the director of the sleep center at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn, however, counsels against naps because they may disrupt the normal nighttime sleep cycle. Daytime exercise would be a better way to improve sleep, he said.
 Dr. Koffler of Canyon Ranch cautioned that people beset by chronic sleep problems should see a doctor. For those who have the occasional sleepless night and are seeking relaxation, though, a salon nap or a massage could be soothing, she said.
 ''If it allows someone to move from a busy outer life to a calm inner one, I'm all for it,'' Dr. Koffler said.
 Ms. Gruman of the Center for the Advancement of Health said the idea of paying for a nap amounts to ''cognitive dissonance.''
 ''I can't believe people think there is magic in the pods or the cashmere blanket,'' Ms. Gruman said. ''But maybe they think they are going to get better sleep if they spend a lot of money.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: PILLOW TALK -- There are now so many products dedicated to inducing sleep that an insomniac might try counting them instead of sheep, including body washes, balms, mists and aromatic roll-ons to apply to pulse points. (Photographs by Lars Klove for The New York Times)
 FORTY WINKS -- At Yelo in New York, Marilyne Neuchat indulges in a nap while Kendall Eaton gives her a hand reflexology treatment. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLEEP DISORDERS (89%); SLEEP (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); MASSAGE SERVICES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (70%); BOTTLED WATER (70%); ACNE (70%); TRENDS (69%); SMOKING (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MATTRESSES (63%) Sleep; Spas; Advertising and Marketing; Sleep

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Yelo (Manhattan Salon)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: Natasha Singer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



2 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally as Fed Eases Fears on Growth and Inflation

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks shot higher yesterday after the Federal Reserve answered two of Wall Street's major concerns, indicating that the economy remained healthy and that inflation pressures were easing. 
 The Dow Jones industrials climbed nearly 100 points and set another intraday trading high, while the Russell 2000 index had its first close above 800.
Wall Street had expected the Fed's Open Market Committee to leave short-term interest rates unchanged at 5.25 percent, as it did, but had been uneasy about whether it would indicate that policy makers were considering raising interest rates soon because the economy or inflation were growing too fast. The Fed's statement said that recent indicators suggested ''somewhat firmer growth'' and that inflation readings had ''improved modestly'' in recent months. 
 The Dow rose 98.38, to 12,621.69. It came within a few decimal points of a week-old closing high and set a new intraday high of 12,657.02. 
 Broader stock indicators also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 9.42, to 1,438.24, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 15.29, to finish at 2,463.93.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies finished up 2.37, at 800.34.
 For the first month of the year, the Dow rose 1.27 percent, while the S.& P. gained 1.41 percent and the tech-dominated Nasdaq added 2.01 percent. Some on Wall Street are fond of noting that as the S.& P. 500 goes in January, so goes the year. The so-called January barometer has had only five major errors since 1950, for an accuracy rate of 91.1 percent, according to The Stock Trader's Almanac.
 Light crude settled up $1.17, at $58.14 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Stocks had been mixed on lighter-than-normal trading ahead of the rate decision, but found some support earlier yesterday when the Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product grew at a 3.5 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter as consumers increased spending.
 A weaker report came from the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago index of business conditions in the Midwest; it fell to 48.8 in January, from 51.6 in December. A reading below 50 generally signals a pullback in the region's manufacturing, and this was the first time the reading had fallen below 50 since April 2003. 
 In corporate news, Boeing rose $3.56, to $89.56, giving a boost to the Dow industrials. The company's fourth-quarter profit more than doubled amid broad strength in its commercial airplane and military system businesses. Revenue climbed 26 percent, to $17.5 billion, coming in well ahead of the $16.5 billion Wall Street forecast.
 SanDisk, which makes flash memory products, fell $2.65, to $40.18, after it posted a fourth-quarter loss amid big charges related to its acquisition of the Israeli flash memory maker M-Systems.
 Time Warner slipped 17 cents, to $21.87. The company's fourth-quarter profit jumped 34 percent, aided by the sale of Internet access businesses in Europe and an agreement that brought new subscribers to its cable TV unit.
 Home builders rose after the Fed commented that there appeared to be evidence of stabilization in the housing market. Toll Brothers rose $1.40, to $33.83, while KB Home jumped $2.55, to $54.22.
 Bond prices rose sharply after the Fed's statement. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was up 15/32, to 98 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.81 percent, from 4.87 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); BOEING CO (51%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



3 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Text of Fed Statement on Interest Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 5.25 percent.
Recent indicators have suggested somewhat firmer economic growth, and some tentative signs of stabilization have appeared in the housing market. Over all, the economy seems likely to expand at a moderate pace over coming quarters. 
 Readings on core inflation have improved modestly in recent months, and inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time. However, the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain inflation pressures. 
 The committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Thomas M. Hoenig; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Cathy E. Minehan; Frederic S. Mishkin; Michael H. Moskow; William Poole; and Kevin M. Warsh. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



4 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Now That a Penny Isn't Worth Much, It's Time to Make It Worth 5 Cents

BYLINE: By AUSTAN GOOLSBEE. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
How dumb do you have to be to mint money at a loss? In the latest only-in-Washington episode, we find that the government may have lost as much as $40 million coining pennies and nickels last year. 
 The metal in them -- the zinc, copper and nickel -- has soared in value in the last few years, making the coins more valuable as raw materials than they are as currency. The government reaction has been to ban the melting of the coins to get the metal. But there is a good chance that we will find ourselves in an outright coin shortage of a form we have not seen in four decades and one that harks back to the monetary problems of medieval times. 
In their landmark book on monetary history, ''The Big Problem of Small Change,'' two economists, Thomas J. Sargent of New York University and Francois R. Velde of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, point out that before the 20th century, the value of coins came from the material they contained: silver or gold. In the words of economics, it was ''commodity money.''
 But as the price of silver or gold increased, people pulled the coins from circulation. These shortages are a basic problem with commodity money and began almost as early as Charlemagne's minting of the first silver penny around 800 A.D.
 But the United States doesn't have commodity money anymore. Our coins are just tokens now. They are valuable only because the government says they are -- because the government is willing to trade them for dollars.
 And making tokens that cost more to manufacture than they are worth is monetary insanity. We could make them out of any material we want, so why in the world would we lose money? 
 To stop this senselessness, we would seem to have only two choices: debase the coins (i.e., make them out of something cheaper) or abolish pennies (and, perhaps, even nickels). 
 The United States has debased money in the past. In World War II, we made steel pennies to save copper. In the 1960s, the high value of silver caused a run on quarters and dimes and led to a full-blown coin shortage until we substituted copper and nickel. We also took most of the copper out of pennies in 1982 for the same reason.
 But debasement only puts off the inevitable for a short time. Because the penny is fixed in value at 1 cent, no matter what the penny is made of, the cost of its material will rise with inflation and eventually be worth more than a cent. 
 Most economists, then, argue that we should use this opportunity to abolish pennies the way Canada, Britain and the European countries that use the euro abolished their smallest coins. Because of inflation, a penny isn't half the coin it once was. Indeed, the United States ended the half-cent in 1857 when it was still worth about 8 cents in today's terms, so we're probably well overdue to retire some coins.
 But polls show that a majority of Americans like their pennies, and abolition might lead people in Illinois -- the land of Lincoln, where pennies still work at tollbooths -- to outright currency rebellion. 
 On top of that, Raymond Lombra, an economist at Pennsylvania State University, claims that the rounding of prices -- a $6.49 bill would cost you $6.50 -- might not be evenly distributed and might cost consumers as much as $600 million a year, a cost that would be paid disproportionately by the poor who use cash more often. 
 Others counter that retail stores could not get away with such shenanigans. But, clearly, the case for abolishing pennies is not universally believed.
 So what to do?
 Mr. Velde, in a Chicago Fed Letter issued in February, has come up with a solution that would abolish the penny, solve the excess costs of making nickels, help the poor, keep the Lincoln buffs happy and save hundreds of millions of dollars for taxpayers. 
 As Mr. Velde explained in an interview, ''We face a very medieval problem so I took inspiration from the medieval practice of rebasing.'' 
 He would rebase the penny by having the government declare it to be worth 5 cents. 
 At first that sounds impossible. But our coins are just tokens the government gives a value to. We can say they are worth whatever we like. Indeed, Mr. Velde observes that the United States did something similar in 1834, when it changed the gold-silver ratio and suddenly the half-eagle $5 coin was actually worth $5.625. 
 Pennies would then cost a little over 1 cent to make and would be worth a nickel, so the government would again be making a profit on money. We would have plenty of new Lincoln nickels so we could stop minting our current nickels at a heavy loss. The Jefferson nickels would stay in circulation, just as the old wheat pennies do now. Because metal in nickels is valuable, though, they would probably be melted down. 
 Rebasing pennies is printing money. But don't get too worried about inflation. With about 140 billion pennies in circulation ($1.4 billion) -- counting the ones in your couch and your kids' piggy banks -- this rebalance would make them worth $7 billion, adding about $5.6 billion to the money supply. For comparison, at the start of 2007 there was about $1.4 trillion in currency and money available for purchases, to say nothing of credit cards. 
 Plus, the money would go disproportionately to the poor (and to people getting allowances from their parents), more than offsetting any ''rounding tax'' from eliminating the penny. 
 So pull out those sofa cushions, ladies and gentlemen, and start looking for the shiny face of Honest Abe. All that glitters may not be gold, or even nickel, but it may be worth 5 cents. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day on Thursday, about the high cost of minting pennies and nickels, misidentified a country that has stopped making its smallest coins; it was Australia, not Canada. The article also misstated the countries within the European Union that had stopped minting their smallest coins. Only two countries, Finland and the Netherlands, have done so; not all countries that use the euro have abolished their smallest coins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FUTURES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Currency; Zinc; Copper, Brass and Bronze; Nickel; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (57%) Austan Goolsbee

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



5 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STATE OF THE ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Overseas Calls Made Cheap, If Not Easy

BYLINE: By DAVID POGUE. 
E-mail: Pogue@nytimes.com

 BODY:
You want to know how much it costs to make a 10-minute call to New York from London? From a pay phone, $15.70. From a T-Mobile or Cingular cellphone (American handsets that work overseas), $3.40 to $12.90. From your hotel room phone, $58. Perhaps it would be cheaper just to fly home.
 These rates reflect a gigantic disconnect between the olden days and the new ones. Why pay for the privilege of transmitting your voice along aging copper cables buried under the ocean, when the Internet is capable of transmitting it free?
All right, all right: convenience and familiarity. Everyone knows how to pick up the phone and make a call. But sooner or later, the overwhelming economy of portable Internet phone-calling equipment might appeal to the inner economist in you -- and persuade you to change your tune. 
 Here, to get you past that unfamiliarity hump, are some of the latest options. Each requires a high-speed Internet connection, like a cable modem or D.S.L. box.YOUR VOIP BOX -- VoIP is the annoyingly user-hostile name that the industry has chosen for voice calls carried over the Internet's wiring. (VoIP stands for voice-over-Internet protocol, but that won't be on the test.) For example, more than two million people have signed up for VoIP service from Vonage. It charges a flat $25 a month for unlimited calls within the United States, and also to Canada, France, Ireland, Italy, Spain or Britain. Other VoIP companies offer even less expensive plans. 
 Here's the unfamiliar part: To make these services work, you plug your existing home telephone handset into a little adapter box (usually free with a subscription). You plug this adapter into your Internet connection rather than a phone line.
 From there, dial and answer calls normally. The only difference is that the Internet, not the phone company, is carrying the calls.
 So here's one crazy idea for the global gabber: Sign up for one of these VoIP services -- and then travel with your adapter box. 
 It's that adapter, not the telephone plugged into it, that represents your home phone number. So you can land in any country, plug your adapter into the hotel room phone and a wired high-speed Internet connection, and presto: you're only a local call away from everyone back home. Anytime someone calls your home number, the adapter box rings, no matter where it is on earth.
 Drawbacks: Not especially portable. Requires a telephone handset. Not wireless. Watery sound sometimes results if you're downloading big files while on a call.V-PHONE -- The same company, Vonage, now offers the same service, for the same rates, in a new pinky-size box ($40). It looks for all the world like a standard flash drive -- also known as a U.S.B. drive, memory drive or keychain drive. And it is one; you can fill it with 200 megabytes of whatever computer files you want to cart around. 
 But there's a twist: When you insert this thing into a Windows XP computer (not Vista, not Macintosh, not Linux) and wait 30 seconds, a simulated dialing keypad and phone book list pop up on the screen. You can dial any number -- and, through an included stereo earbud microphone that plugs straight into the flash drive, have crystal-clear phone chats with anyone in the world. No telephone line is required, not even a telephone.
 You don't even need to supply your own computer. You can duck into a friend's house, an Internet cafe or an airport terminal, pop the V-Phone into the U.S.B. jack and instantly start making calls, with no setup or software installation and leaving no crumbs behind. You may be momentarily convinced you've just seen the Next Sliced Bread.
 Drawbacks: Even if you're already a Vonage subscriber at home, paying $25 a month, the V-Phone means having a second phone number and paying another $25 a month. And there's not much point to the V-Phone if you bring your own laptop anyway (read on).VONAGE V-ACCESS -- This new service lets anyone, even nonsubscribers, make free overseas calls to Vonage subscribers from the United States, Canada, France, Italy, Mexico, Spain or Britain. Free is good; we like free.
 With this service, you need no equipment whatsoever. You just dial a local access number in whatever country you're in. (The list of local numbers appears at vonage.com.) At the tone, dial your Vonage pal's phone number -- and presto, you're connected, gratis.
 Drawbacks: You can make free calls only to Vonage subscribers and 800 numbers. VONAGE SOFTPHONE -- Just when you thought your head was about to explode from all these options, here's another one that's just for existing Vonage subscribers. The SoftPhone software for Mac or Windows turns a computer into a Vonage box. You pay $10 a month for unlimited service, with the same coverage areas mentioned above, and you don't need an adapter box. (The software uses a second phone number--not the same one as your primary Vonage account.)
 Drawbacks: You have to wear a headset. When your laptop battery dies, you can't make calls.SKYPE -- Then again, if you do travel with your laptop, why mess with Vonage at all? You can get exactly the same features -- unlimited, flat-fee, Internet-based computer dialing -- using the free software called Skype (skype.com).
 Calls made using Skype and its rivals (Google Talk, AIM, iChat and so on) -- are absolutely free, as long as you're making computer-to-computer chats, where you and the person on the other end are both wearing headsets.
 Most of Skype's 170 million customers, in fact, use the service just that way -- free. 
 That may be fine if you and your loved ones plan ahead, agreeing to sit down at your computers for a trans-Atlantic call at a given hour to save a little money. But it won't fly in the business world.
 Enter Skype Out. This service lets your Mac or PC reach real telephones at real phone numbers, for as long as you care to talk, for only $30 a year. If you want a phone number for incoming calls, that's another $38 a year. (Yahoo, MSN and AIM offer variations on these services.)
 Drawbacks: You have to lug your laptop and wear a headset. Skype Out's unlimited calling covers only the United States and Canada; international calls cost about 2 cents a minute.A SKYPE PHONE -- A few companies have dumped the required ingredients for happy Internet phone calling -- microphone, speaker, Internet connection and software -- into the Blender of Creativity. The result is self-contained Skype hot-spot phones.
 The nearly identical Netgear SPH101 ($250) and Belkin Wi-Fi Phone for Skype ($200), for example, look and work like cellphones, complete with vibrate mode, headphone jack and removable battery. (The more expensive Netgear is slightly smaller and has a dedicated power button.) But they don't connect to cellular networks; they connect to wireless Internet hot spots and make calls using Skype or Skype Out. No computer is involved.
 Sound quality is very good, operation is simple -- your existing Skype buddy list appears on the phone as if by magic -- and the economy is unbeatable, especially when you're making calls from abroad. 
 Drawback: Don't expect to pull up a chair in Le Petit Internet Cafe and start chatting up your pals back home; these phones can hop onto password-protected hot spots, but not if a Web-page signup is required. And that pretty much rules out most of the world's public hot spots in cafes, coffee shops, airports and so on. When you realize in Rome that you left your laptop in Louisiana and desperately need to call Detroit, that could be considered a drawback.
 (The Belkin model can get onto Boingo public hot spots without requiring the Web login, although that perk will cost you $8 a month.) 
 Of course, at the rate things have been going, phone calls -- all phone calls -- will very soon be free. We're not there yet. But already, using all these Internet-based calling gizmos, you can buy yourself a year's worth of unlimited international calling -- for the price of just one hotel room call from London.

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEYCHAIN PHONE -- The Vonage V-Phone, above, is a flash drive loaded with calling software. NOT A CELLPHONE -- The Belkin Wi-Fi Phone for Skype, right, connects to Wi-Fi hot spots. (pg. C8)Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); FLASH DRIVES (74%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); MODEMS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (91%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%)

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%)

PERSON: David Pogue

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (71%); SPAIN (68%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



6 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; What Could Bog Down the Bull; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Slowing Earnings Threaten to Turn the Easy Going Into a Slog Through Mud

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Stocks surged yesterday afternoon, sending the Dow Jones industrial average to within a hair of a new high, after the Federal Reserve pointed to strength in the economy and a moderation in inflation.
 Investors may want to enjoy it while they can.
The road ahead promises to be a long, hard slog as corporate profits are starting to slow.
 And while Wall Street focused yesterday on the signs that the Fed will not raise rates anytime soon, there is also the glum realization that no rate cut -- a hope that had buoyed stocks as recently as December -- is likely to materialize this year. The Fed noted that ''some inflation risks remain,'' as it left short-term rates steady at 5.25 percent. 
 Earlier, the Commerce Department reported that the gross domestic product grew at a 3.5 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter, far faster than the 2 percent pace in the third quarter and the 3 percent most analysts had expected. 
 Yet even amid evidence that the economy remains healthy, corporate earnings, which have been growing at a double-digit pace for more than four years, are expected to slip into single digits in the coming months, if they did not already do so in the fourth quarter. As a result, investors are left with a quandary.
 ''Will there be an inflationary scare or will the economy get very weak?'' said Marc D. Stern, the chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, a money management firm based in New York. ''At various times in the year, each side of that debate will look correct. That will lead to sharp rallies and corrections.''
 Sectors like energy, utilities and financials that had led the stock market on its run-up since the summer have now turned into laggards, and few contenders have emerged to take their place. 
 This bull market may indeed be weary. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has climbed at an average annual pace of 12.7 percent in the last four years -- a run that has had no 10 percent correction, something that usually occurs at least once during most long-running bull markets. 
 But there was clearly life in the bull yesterday: The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.66 percent, or 9.42 points, to 1,438.24, and the Nasdaq composite index closed up 0.62 percent, or 15.29 points, to 2,463.93. The Dow rose 0.79 percent, or 98.38 points, to 12,621.69 -- a fraction of a point less than its record high set last week. And more bullish market watchers point to a long string of hopeful signs and developments, including the continuing wave of acquisitions and buyouts, Microsoft's introduction of its Vista operating system and consumers who are still spending despite a slump in the housing market. Personal consumption increased 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. 
 Many forecasters on Wall Street say these factors, along with stronger growth in sectors like health care, give them confidence that the market will move higher, albeit at a slower and more volatile pace than last year's 13.6 percent advance.
 ''We are going to have an O.K. year,'' said Robert C. Doll, vice chairman at Black Rock. ''But its not going to be as easy as last year.''
 The S.& P. 500 is up 1.41 percent for the year, with about half of that coming in yesterday's rally. The Dow Jones industrial average is up 1.27 percent and the Nasdaq composite index is up 2.01 percent. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies is up 1.61 percent.
 Last year, virtually every sector of the market ended up, but the rally had a few strong and distinct leaders. Energy stocks led the way with a 22 percent advance, diversified financial institutions were close behind at 21 percent and utilities were up 17 percent. But as crude oil prices have fallen from a high of $77.03 a barrel and settled in a band from $50 to $60, profits at energy companies have slowed. Stocks in the sector are down about 1.9 percent so far in 2007; utilities are down 0.4 percent.
 Many financial companies reported strong fourth-quarter earnings, but analysts expect them to come under increasing pressure from higher long-term rates and rising defaults. Stocks in the diversified financial sector ended January up 1.5 percent. 
 ''The market is looking for new leadership,'' said Owen B. Fitzpatrick, a managing director at Deutsche Bank's private-wealth management division. ''Everyone is watching to see what will lead the market higher.''
 So far this year, real estate stocks, which did well last year as well, have led the way, with an advance of 9.7 percent largely because of the bidding war over Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest manager of office buildings. But analysts say that surge is unlikely to continue once a deal is set.
 The stocks of auto and parts makers, mining and materials companies, consumer services and health care companies are also doing well, but many market specialists are skeptical about the sustainability of the lift in sectors like cars and materials. Specialists are more optimistic about consumer services and health care, but the sectors may not completely make up for the role played by last year's leaders.
 ''The leadership has been shifting by fits and starts,'' said John A. Carey, a portfolio manager and executive vice president at Pioneer Investments, a Boston-based mutual fund company.
 Many forecasters including Mr. Carey say technology companies, which struggled for much of last year but had a good run in the second half, may finally be ready to lead the market again since the sector's bust in 2000. The optimism is pinned in large part to new products and services including Vista, which could prove to be a catalyst that pushes businesses and consumers to purchase computers and related gear.
 ''The product cycle is in the process of changing,'' said Jim T. Swanson, chief investment strategist with MFS Investments in Boston. ''There is a lot of new software and old equipment.''
 But it remains to be seen how widely the spoils will be shared across the technology sector. Bellwethers like Dell and Intel are still facing significant competitive challenges, and analysts have been disappointed by their recent earnings reports and the companies' outlooks for the coming year.
 Investors have also been forced to rethink their views on interest rates and the broader economy. As recently as the start of December, the futures markets predicted that the Federal Reserve would start lowering short-term rates by April. As of yesterday, investors were betting that the first rate cut would not come until November. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, has risen from 4.39 percent in early December to 4.81 percent yesterday.
 ''The Fed is on hold in the near term as they watch the data,'' said Dean M. Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Bank, who expects the Fed to raise rates to 6 percent this year, beginning in June.
 Until late last year, many investors appeared to have convinced themselves that the housing market would have slowed the economy enough to spur the Fed into action by the spring. Their recent shift in thinking seems to have little do with any new statements from Fed officials, who have repeatedly and consistently said they remained more worried about inflation than they were by the prospect for weaker economic growth, a clear indication that policy makers were not ready to lower rates.
 Rather, investors have come around to the Fed's view after reports on employment and manufacturing showed that the economy remained resilient in the face of the weakness in housing. Also, falling energy prices and a spell of unseasonably warmer weather early this year bolstered consumer spending and nonresidential construction.
 ''We could argue that perhaps the market got ahead of itself in projecting rate cuts for early 2007,'' said Douglas M. Peta, a senior vice president and market strategist with J.& W. Seligman & Company.
 Another force that may have restrained American stocks in the last year is investor apathy toward the shares of large domestic corporations relative to the markets for bonds, commodities and foreign stocks, all of which have risen. Investors poured $13.2 billion into funds specializing in domestic equities last year, compared with $138.9 billion in nondomestic stock funds and $75 billion in taxable bond funds, according to AMG Data Services. A far larger sum, $312.7 billion, has been parked in money market funds. Specialists note that the flows are odd given that equities in the United States are cheap on a price-to-earnings basis relative to other assets like commodities and stocks in other developed countries. It appears that at least some of the flow of investments into other areas is driven by a desire on the part of investors to ride more buoyant markets and to take advantage of the weakness in the dollar, which fell 11.4 percent against the euro in 2006. So far this year, the dollar is up 1.45 percent.
 In a way, however, specialists say investors' ambivalence toward equities is a good sign that the market has not overextended itself. ''It is a good sign to the contrarian,'' Mr. Peta said. ''The market has room to run. It has not gotten out of hand.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Shifting Rate Expectations''As recently as early December, investors were betting the Fed might lower interest rates by half a point by July. Now, contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade indicate that investors believe a rate cut is not likely before the end of the year.Graph tracks Fed Funds Futures and implied Fed Funds Rate since December 2006.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Chart: ''A Different Lineup for Investors''Last year, real estate, energy, technology and financial services companies led a bull market in stocks. This year, real estate is still strong, but most other leaders have stalled. All figures are based on sectors in the S. & P. 500.2006TOP PERFORMING SECTORSReal estate: +36.8%Telecommunications services: +32.1Media: +29.3Autos and components: +22.4Energy: +22.2Diversified financials: +20.7Construction services: +18.5Utilities: +16.9Materials: +15.7Technology hardware: +14.92007 Through JanuaryTOP PERFORMING SECTORSReal estate: +9.7%Autos and components: +5.3Materials: +4.5Retailing: +4.2Commercial services, supplies: +4.0Health care equip., services: +3.7Telecommunication services: +3.1Software, related services: +3.1Food and staples retailers: +2.9Consumer durables, apparel: +2.72006BOTTOM PERFORMING SECTORSPharma biotech, life sciences: + 9.9%Retailing: + 9.4Insurance: + 9.3Commercial services, supplies: + 9.1Software, related services: + 7.7Food and staples retailers: + 5.7Transportation: + 5.6Consumer durables, apparel: + 4.6Health care equip., services: - 0.2Semiconductors, equip.: - 8.12007 Through JanuaryBOTTOM PERFORMING SECTORSDiversified financials: +1.5%Food, beverages, tobacco: +1.3Capital goods: +1.1Consumer services: +0.8Technology hardware: +0.7Semiconductors, equip.: +0.3Utilities: -0.4Banks: -1.1Insurance: -1.4Energy: -1.9(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); BONDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (63%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (50%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Commerce Department

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



7 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: An Island of Moguls Is the Latest Front in a Union Battle

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

DATELINE: FISHER ISLAND, Fla., Jan 26 

 BODY:
The class struggle is coming to paradise. 
 It's hard to tell from the Bentleys and the Jaguars debarking from the ferry, tooling past the pink flamingos in the pond and the peacocks sashaying along the exquisitely coiffed lawn, but this exclusive enclave of the moneyed is bracing for an unexpected test of its decades-old insulation from the outside world: a labor union is trying to organize its workers.
After successful campaigns last year to organize janitors and other maintenance workers at several universities in South Florida, the Service Employees International Union has set its sights on Fisher Island, one of the most concentrated pockets of wealth in the nation. 
 Amid mounting political attention to the substantial widening of the income gap over the last two decades, the service employees union hopes that Fisher Island -- where a share in the golf club costs $250,000 and dues run to $20,000 a year while workers tending the grounds or washing linens can make as little as $8.50 an hour -- will serve as a rallying cry for low-wage service workers across the nation. 
 ''This is a symbol of what's wrong and a beacon of what could be right,'' said Stephen Lerner, director of the union's property services division. ''There's a growing feeling in the country that something is a little out of balance when workers live in poverty in the middle of incredible wealth, and it can and should be fixed.'' 
 But the union drive, which is just getting under way, might not play out as a straightforward battle pitting the haves against the have-nots. Some residents, of course, oppose the union's arrival. But others are already being courted by the union, which hopes that they will be moved to support it when confronted with the contrast between their affluence and the meager existence of many of their workers.
 Even among employees interested in joining the union, resentment of the rich does not seem to be the prime motivation.
 ''I'm not bothered by their wealth,'' said Christiana Monestime, a Haitian immigrant working in the club's laundry room for $8.76 an hour. ''They earned what they have. We just need to earn more than we earn.'' 
 Representatives of Fisher Island's community association and of the golf club, the two main employers with a combined payroll of about 600 workers, say that their wages and benefits are above the area average. They say they pay 80 percent of the cost of individual health insurance, offer a 401(k) plan with a company match, and provide paid vacations and an allowance of $60 a month to buy food from vending machines in the workers' cafeteria.
 ''I am not sure if there are any advantages'' from having a union, said Gaele C. Silva, vice president for legal and government affairs at Fisher Island Holdings, the island's developer, which controls the community association. ''Unions are needed usually when pay, benefits or working standards are below the usual norms.''
 Still, to the union, the local wage comparisons are almost beside the point. The chasm between the fortunes of the 750 or so families that call Fisher Island home and the workers toiling in its restaurants and laundry rooms is so striking that it makes for a potent image. Fisher Island, organizers say, is a microcosm of the nation's increasing social and economic divide.
 A 216-acre nub of land sliced from the tip of Miami in 1905 when the government dredged out a sea-lane from Biscayne Bay, Fisher Island was acquired in 1925 by William K. Vanderbilt II, scion of the robber-baron railroad clan, to build his winter mansion.
 It epitomizes wealth to this day. The island is home at least part of the year to an assortment of magnates, like the investment guru Martin Zweig, the car dealership mogul Robert Potamkin and the financier Bennet S. LeBow, of tobacco fame. Celebrities like Oprah Winfrey and Mel Brooks have owned winter homes here. 
 According to the Census Bureau, Fisher Island was the richest enclave in America in 1999, with an average income per capita of about $236,000 -- more than double the $91,000 average on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Residents say the real figures are actually far higher, partly because of the difficulty in gathering income data on part-time residents.
 Indeed, from the imported Bahamian sand coating the beaches to the marble and mahogany-encrusted Vanderbilt mansion and the 186-foot, $250,000-a-week chartered yacht bobbing in the marina just outside, everything bespeaks luxury. The gilded trappings are a potent reminder of the great income gap that prevailed when Mr. Vanderbilt used to alight his hydroplane in the inviting waters offshore, in the early decades of the 20th century, a gap that has re-emerged today.
 Elena Bluntzer, a longtime real estate agent on the island who owns a condominium here, said that Fisher Island was comfortably insulated by its wealth, even from the chill affecting the housing market in nearby Miami Beach and elsewhere. 
 New condos are being offered for $4.5 million to $9.1 million. Resale units can go for much more. One that Ms. Bluntzer is trying to sell, 8,300 square feet of oceanfront luxury adorned with coral rock from Santo Domingo, stained glass by Frank Lloyd Wright and sheepskin-covered bathroom walls, is listed for $17.5 million. Maintenance will exceed $7,000 a month. 
 ''Everything above six million is doing extremely well,'' Ms. Bluntzer confided. 
 Fisher Island's workers live in a more frugal universe, with laundry workers at the club or landscaper tending the grounds earning as little as $8.50 an hour. 
 Several months ago Ms. Monestime's workweek in the laundry was cut from 40 hours to 24, forcing her to drop the health plan that cost her $22 every two weeks. ''We have to fight,'' Ms. Monestime said. ''Everybody has a family to support.''
 Abraham Guevara, a Honduran immigrant who has worked 18 years as a landscaper on the island and makes $14.42 an hour, said he was generally content with his employers. Still, he thought a union might help workers push for a better deal.
 ''I have never been in a union,'' he said, ''but it might be a good idea.''
 This is not the first time organized labor has tried to land on Fisher Island. In 2005, the Teamsters dropped their attempt to unionize workers after they lost a representation election against fierce opposition from the developer, John Melk.
 During that drive, Mr. Melk warned that ''I will not agree to any changes that will cost Fisher Island more money.'' The union complained to the National Labor Relations Board, arguing that Mr. Melk had threatened workers, but lost the case on appeal. 
 Management of the community association changed after Mr. Melk sold to the investment fund Euro Fund Properties. The S.E.I.U. is trying a different strategy from that of the Teamsters, hoping to draw some of the prosperous residents to its side. ''There's plenty of wealth around to lift workers out of poverty,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''The issue here is not to get rid of rich people.''
 This month, a local organization of religious leaders that is allied with the union sent a letter to all residents, alerting them to ''serious and tragic poverty within your midst.''
 ''A great invisible work force, unseen by many, maintains your condominiums, golf courses and tennis courts, prepares and serves your food, cleans your rooms and common areas, and maintains the critical equipment that keeps the air-conditioning and other mechanics of the island running smoothly,'' the letter says. ''Their stories are chilling.''
 Residents on the island are some of its biggest employers; they control the club and they run the individual condos, which contract for maintenance and cleaning work among several companies.
 Some Fisher Island residents appear sympathetic. Harold Ford Sr., the former congressman who is now a Washington lobbyist and lives part time on the island, said he paid a house-worker more than $20 an hour, plus health insurance. ''It's really the club that employs the people,'' he said. ''I just live here.''
 Yet others were taken aback by the charge that workers earn too little. ''We don't need a union,'' said Suzanne B. Irving, a resident who manages her condo association at Seaside Villas. ''We are really taking care of our workers.''
 The condo contracts with an outside firm for three workers who clean and maintain two small buildings. Ms. Irving said the two cleaners made $9 to $10 an hour, plus health insurance and a 401(k) plan. The maintenance worker makes $15 to $18 an hour.
 ''It's not in our interest to get the cheapest worker,'' she said. ''You teach them; you put so much effort into them; so you want to keep them.''
 Some residents say that comparing the income of residents to that of their workers is pointless. Ms. Bluntzer argued that the nation's superwealthy have become so rich because they created businesses that were generating enormous wealth, which is ultimately good for all.
 ''What's fair is fair,'' Ms. Bluntzer said. ''Everyone needs to be compensated for the job they are doing. But it's unfair to pay all the same.'' 
 And residents argue that they care about the downtrodden. Several pointed to the island's philanthropic fund, which raised $550,000 to $600,000 last year for donations to several children's charities in the area.
 ''Fisher Island,'' Ms. Irving said, ''is not the story about rich people who don't care about the poor.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Multimillion-dollar condos on Fisher Island. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Gerard Thomas, right, a janitor on Fisher Island, with a flier distributed by the service employees union, which hopes that an effort to organize there will help rally low-wage service workers across the country.
 Workers take a break with ocean views in Fisher Island, Fla. The Service Employees International Union has set its sights on the island, one of the most concentrated pockets of wealth in the nation. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of Florida highlighting Fisher Island: Fisher Island, a 216-acre nub of land sliced from Miami in 1905. (pg. C4)Chart/Map: ''The Wealthiest Places''Fisher Island is one of several wealthy enclaves in South Florida. Other popular locations for the rich tend to cluster outside major cities like New York, Chicago and San Francisco.Rank of income per person1. Fisher Island, Fla.: $236,2002. Jupiter Island, Fla.: 200,1003. Village of Golf, Fla.: 145,0004. Hunting Valley, Ohio: 144,3005. Manalapan, Fla.: 143,7006. Orchid, Fla.: 135,9007. Mockingbird Valley, Ky.: 134,7008. Gulf Stream, Fla.: 133,7009. Westover Hills, Tex.: 133,60010. Mantoloking, N.J.: 114,00011. Hunts Point, Wash.: 113,80012. Belvedere, Calif.: 113,60013. Hewlett Bay Park, N.Y.: 113,30014. Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.: 113,10015. Atherton, Calif.: 112,40016. Rolling Hills, Calif.: 111,00017. Barton Hills, Mich.: 110,70018. Barton Creek, Tex.: 110,50019. Cove Neck, N.Y.: 110,10020. Palm Beach, Fla.: 109,20021. Bloomfield Hills, Mich.: 104,90022. Belle Meade, Tenn.: 104,90023. Woodside, Calif.: 104,70024. Huntleigh, Mo.: 104,40025. Oyster Bay Cove, N.Y.: 103,20026. Indian River Shores, Fla.: 102,50027. Kenilworth, Ill.: 100,70028. North Hills, N.Y.: 100,100Note: Based on year 2000 census-defined places with a population of at least 100.(Source by Census Bureau)(pg. C4)Map of the United States highlighting cities listed above. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); GOLF (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (66%); CENSUS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Service Employees International Union; Census Bureau

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Fisher Island (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



8 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Fed, Leaving Rate at 5.25%, Is Optimistic on Inflation

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged on Wednesday, as it has since June, but it was more optimistic than in the past that inflationary pressures were ebbing.
 The central bank left the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks at 5.25 percent, as investors had expected. It also repeated its caution that ''some inflation risks remain,'' a sign that it is likely to keep the benchmark rate at current levels for the foreseeable future.
But in its statement announcing the decision, the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee expressed growing confidence that inflation was running lower -- even as growth was slightly stronger than officials had expected just a few months ago. 
 ''Readings on core inflation have improved modestly, and inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time,'' the Fed's statement said. At the same time, it acknowledged signs of ''somewhat firmer economic growth'' and ''tentative signs of stabilization'' in the housing market.
 That cheered stock and bond markets, elevating hopes that healthy economic growth would not prompt a resumption of rate increases. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 98.38 points yesterday, or 0.79 percent, to close at 12,621.69. Yields on Treasury debt declined, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note settling at 4.81 percent, down from 4.87 percent Tuesday, indicating that the market expected long-term interest rates to move slightly lower.
 The Federal Reserve's announcement came hours after the Commerce Department reported that the economy grew at a surprisingly brisk annual pace of 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. 
 Many investors have all but written off expectations that the Fed might actually cut interest rates soon, which it would do to offset an economic slump or rising unemployment, neither of which is occurring.
 The Fed statement suggested that policy makers were increasingly confident about achieving an elusive ''soft landing'' -- a mild slowdown in growth that would reduce inflation pressures but not set off a recession.
 ''What I don't think people were counting on was the Fed, in effect, upgrading their views on the outlook for inflation,'' said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial in Pittsburgh. ''The way they phrased it, they're really inching toward a balanced risk assessment of inflation versus slower growth.''
 While Mr. Hoffman still says that a Fed rate cut this summer is possible, most analysts no longer see any need for the central bank to ease rates. 
 ''If there were need for stimulus, the consumer is clearly not asking for it,'' said Richard Yamarone at Argus Research in New York. ''You have more than a handful of reasons to raise rates, but what are the reasons for a cut? There are none.''
 The Fed repeated verbatim the previous stance of remaining slightly more worried about rising inflation than about slowing growth.
 Several governors, as well as the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, have said that their ''comfort zone'' for inflation is an annual rate of 1 to 2 percent, excluding food and energy.
 By that measure of core inflation, consumer prices have risen 2.4 percent in the last year. But prices have climbed more slowly in recent months, partly because of pass-through effects from the drop in gasoline prices late last year. 
 And while the Commerce Department's new estimate of economic growth last quarter provided additional evidence that the economy was expanding faster than many analysts had expected, it also showed that inflationary pressures remained surprisingly low.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders in an options pit at the Chicago Board of Trade signaled orders yesterday after the Federal Reserve said it was holding rates steady. (Photo by Frank Polich/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); INFLATION (92%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BOND MARKETS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Recession and Depression

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



9 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Vigorous Consumer Spending Helped Economy Grow 3.5% at the End of 2006

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The economy regained momentum at the end of 2006, pulling out of a midyear slowdown as gas prices fell and Americans reached into their wallets with renewed confidence. 
 The government said yesterday that its broadest and best-known measure of economic growth, the gross domestic product, advanced at an annual rate of 3.5 percent from October through December. That was noticeably stronger than the 2 percent rate of growth during the third quarter and the 2.6 percent measured in the second quarter.
Spending by consumers -- on things like food and visits to the doctor -- gave the economy the biggest lift. Spending by the federal government, particularly on the military, also added a significant increase. At the same time, goods and services exported to foreign countries increased, helping shrink the nation's trade deficit. 
 The swiftness of the expansion in the final months of the year surprised many economists, who were expecting a rate closer to 3 percent. Such strong growth was the latest indication that the economy was showing authentic vigor, despite forecasts of a deeper downturn.
 The government also reported yesterday that inflation fell back yesterday on two fronts: in an index of prices that the Federal Reserve watches closely and a separate measure of labor costs.
 That seemed to reaffirm the Fed's decision yesterday to hold interest rates steady, though the central bank warned, as it has for many months, that ''some inflation risks remain.'' 
 The economy's resilience has not been lost on the White House, which has spent the last two days playing up the expansion. President Bush spoke in Manhattan yesterday, noting faster growth in wages and consumer confidence. ''The state of our economy is strong,'' he told an audience at Federal Hall, the site where Congress and the Supreme Court first convened.
 But underneath the robust growth numbers, some economists saw signs that the first few months of 2007 might not be as strong as the last few months of 2006. They noted a number of factors that were not likely to repeat, including the spending increase brought about by lower gas prices. 
 ''The boost to consumption in the fourth quarter was all about the fall in oil prices,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist with Capital Economics. ''That's very much a temporary boost that's now gone.''
 In addition, businesses cut back investment in equipment and software in the fourth quarter.
 Still, the quarter turned out to be much healthier than economists were predicting just two months ago. Many experts thought the slump in the real estate market would have much wider effects on the overall economy. Housing did weigh on overall economic growth. The contraction in residential real estate investment, the sharpest since 1991, subtracted 1.2 percentage points from the overall G.D.P. growth figure in the fourth quarter. 
 Another significant drag was a slowdown at the nation's auto plants, which took another 1.2 percentage points off the G.D.P.
 ''Housing and autos, when they're down a lot you're supposed to look for a low number -- and they were both down a lot,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist with ITG.
 But consumers helped offset those effects. The drag on spending that many economists said would come as Americans watched their home values falter has not happened. Instead, consumer spending increased at a 4.4 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, much faster than in the second or third quarters.
 For the full year, the gross domestic product grew 3.4 percent, an improvement on 2005, though not quite matching the 3.9 percent rate of 2004.
 Some economists expect the effects of the housing slowdown to remain limited. In its statement yesterday, the Fed noted ''some tentative signs of stabilization'' in housing.
 John Ryding, the chief United States economist at Bear Stearns, said that the residual effects from the housing bust ''will disappear and vanish over the next couple of quarters,'' leading to faster growth. ''As those factors dissipate, the underlying growth rate picks up,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside a store in Boston. Spending by consumers provided the biggest lift to the American economy in the final months of 2006. (Photo by JB Reed/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (63%) United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior; Gross Domestic Product; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Commerce Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



10 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: German Court Confronts U.S. On Abduction

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Stephen Grey contributed reporting from Toronto, and Mark Mazzetti from Washington.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
A German court on Wednesday issued an arrest warrant for 13 people in the mistaken kidnapping and jailing of a German citizen of Lebanese descent, in the most serious legal challenge yet to the Central Intelligence Agency's secret transfers of terrorism suspects.
 Prosecutors in Munich said the suspects, whom they did not identify, were part of a C.I.A. ''abduction team'' that seized the man, Khaled el-Masri, in Macedonia in late 2003 and flew him to Afghanistan. He was imprisoned there for five months, during which, he said, he was shackled, beaten and interrogated about alleged ties to Al Qaeda, before being released without charges.
His ordeal is the most extensively documented case of the C.I.A.'s practice of ''extraordinary rendition,'' in which terrorism suspects are seized and sent for interrogation to other countries, including some in which torture is practiced.
 ''This is a very consequential step,'' August Stern, the prosecutor in Munich, said in a telephone interview. ''It is a necessary step before bringing a criminal case against these people.'' 
 The Central Intelligence Agency has never acknowledged any role in Mr. Masri's detention, and a C.I.A. spokesman declined to comment on Wednesday. The German government said it would not comment on the case, except to affirm the independence of the public prosecutor.
 Mr. Stern said investigators would seek to establish the true identities of the 13 people, most of whom are believed to use aliases. They include the four pilots of the Boeing 737 that picked up Mr. Masri, a mechanic and several C.I.A. operatives, people familiar with the case said.
 Issuing an arrest warrant is a major expansion of the legal challenge to the C.I.A.'s rendition program in Europe. Italian prosecutors are seeking indictments against 25 C.I.A. operatives and Italy's former intelligence chief for the kidnapping of a militant Egyptian cleric in 2003.
 In Germany, unlike Italy, defendants cannot be tried in absentia. As a practical matter it is unlikely that the Bush administration will acquiesce in the extradition to Germany of the 13 suspects. But the arrest warrant could further hinder their ability to move around Europe. The German case also carries more weight, legal experts said, because of the reputation of courts here for painstaking deliberation and because of recent efforts to repair damaged diplomatic ties between Germany and the United States. 
 It is, in fact, a delicate time for both countries. The Bush administration has faced a drumbeat of criticism because of its antiterrorism policies since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, while the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has been eager to heal rifts over the Iraq war.
 ''It is unique that a German court would issue warrants against 13 C.I.A. agents,'' said Hans-Christian Strobele, a Green Party member of a German parliamentary committee that is investigating the flights.
 The arrest warrants, which were first reported in The Los Angeles Times on Wednesday, also have political implications within Germany, where the role of the government in tolerating -- or even facilitating -- C.I.A. flights has come under increased scrutiny. Frankfurt Airport was reportedly used for many of the flights, as was the American air base at Ramstein.
 On Wednesday, a German broadcaster, NDR, published what it said were the names of the 13 people -- 11 men and 2 women. Mr. Stern declined to discuss the names, which have been picked up by other German news organizations.
 Although the prosecutor's action on Wednesday was the first major legal development in the case, the German news media have been speculating about it for months. In September a television program, ''Panorama,'' tracked down three of those named in North Carolina. They declined to comment on their activities.
 For Mr. Masri, who has had to overcome a tide of public skepticism about his account since it was first reported in The New York Times in early 2005, the court's action is a significant step in bolstering the credibility of his claims, said his lawyer, Manfred Gnjidic.
 ''This is unbelievably important for our case,'' Mr. Gnjidic said in an interview. ''It's the first direct sign of the German government against the C.I.A. that they did the wrong thing.''
 Mr. Masri, who is unemployed, lives in the southern German city of Neu-Ulm. The lawyer said Mr. Masri had been buoyed by a statement of support from the former German interior minister, Otto Schily.
 Mr. Masri is petitioning a federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., to reinstate a lawsuit against the agency. Last May a federal judge threw out a suit brought by Mr. Masri, accepting the government's contention that it would be impossible to hold a trial without disclosing state secrets.
 The Justice Department has declined to help the German prosecutors in their investigation, which has made the Germans dependent on information from other sources, including journalists investigating the C.I.A. practice of transferring suspects across international borders.
 A major break, Mr. Stern said, came from a Spanish reporter who compiled a list of the names of people said to have been involved in Mr. Masri's abduction from sources in the Civil Guard, a Spanish paramilitary police agency. The C.I.A. used the Spanish island of Majorca as a logistics center for its flights, Mr. Gnjidic said, and the authorities found the names of members of the rendition team on hotel logs there.
 Mr. Stern also credited tips from prosecutors in Milan and from Dick Marty, a Swiss senator who conducted an inquiry on the transfer issue on behalf of the Council of Europe.
 The nature of Germany's role in Mr. Masri's case, and in other C.I.A. flights, remains murky. Mr. Masri has asserted that he was interrogated three times inside his prison in Kabul, Afghanistan, by a German who identified himself as ''Sam.''
 Germany's foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, has said he was not told of the abduction until June 2004, after Mr. Masri had been released in Albania. As chief of staff to Gerhard Schroder, then the chancellor, Mr. Steinmeier oversaw all German intelligence services.
 Mr. Steinmeier is facing questions about his role in another case, involving a German-born Turkish man imprisoned for four and a half years at the American military jail in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 The man, Murat Kurnaz, was released by the United States last August after lengthy negotiations between Germany and the United States. But internal German intelligence documents indicate that the Germans turned down an offer by the Americans to send Mr. Kurnaz home as early as 2002.
 Mr. Steinmeier has insisted that the Americans never made an official offer to release Mr. Kurnaz. He has also noted that worries about security were running high in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. German newspapers have been full of speculation about whether the affair will cost Mr. Steinmeier his job.Investigation in Spain
 MADRID, Jan. 31 (Reuters) -- A judge has ordered Spain's intelligence agency to declassify any documents it has about secret C.I.A. transporting of terrorism suspects, court officials said Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Khaled el-Masri, at a hearing in Berlin in June about his abduction and transfer to Afghanistan. (Photo by Carsten Koall/Getty Images)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); EXTRADITION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%) Terrorism; Kidnapping; Torture; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Extradition; Terrorism

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%); AL-QAEDA (83%) Central Intelligence Agency; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%) Mark Landler; Khaled El- Masri; August Stern; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); ITALY (90%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Germany ; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



11 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Propane Blast Hits a Small Town Hard

BYLINE: By DANIEL HEYMAN

DATELINE: GHENT, W.Va., Jan. 31 

 BODY:
For the 800 people in this spartan town in southern West Virginia, the Ghent Fire Hall is the heart of the community. It is where gospel concerts and political debates are held in winter, and a town fair with rides and games is a summer favorite.
 On Wednesday, the hall was at the center of the community response to the loss of four lives in an explosion on Tuesday that leveled the Flat Top Little General Store about a mile away. The blast, fueled by a propane leak, sent a fireball hundreds of feet into the air and registered on seismographs at Virginia Tech, more than 50 miles away. 
Among those killed were a former Ghent fire chief, Frederick A. Burroughs, and a young emergency medical technician, Craig L. Dorsey. Five other people, including a volunteer firefighter from nearby Cool Ridge, were critically injured. 
 The vast majority of West Virginia depends on volunteer firefighters, according to the state fire marshal, Sterling Lewis Jr., and the blast took an enormous toll.
 ''For us, it's just like 9/11,'' said Roy Coalson, a retired coal miner who has volunteered as a Ghent firefighter for 25 years, since the days when mining dominated the local economy.
 Mr. Coalson stood inside the fire hall on Wednesday and greeted a steady stream of townspeople as they delivered homemade lasagna and pot roast, cornbread and beans for the 30 or so remaining firefighters and the families of Mr. Burroughs and Mr. Dorsey.
 As chief, Mr. Burroughs, who is survived by a wife and two teenage children, led a fund-raising drive for a badly needed new fire truck and to nearly double the size of the fire hall, said Patricia Reed, the president of the Raleigh County Commission. After Mr. Burroughs, 51, stepped down as fire chief, he worked as a county building inspector but continued volunteering for the Fire Department, heading for the hall whenever the alarm sounded.
 ''He was a hard worker, a good family man, and he really loved that department,'' Ms. Reed said.
 Mr. Dorsey, 24, was responding to a report of a gas leak at the site. His partner, Christopher Cook, who arrived with Mr. Dorsey in their ambulance just as the explosion occurred, escaped with minor injuries. 
 ''The guy who died got out the driver's side door and the other guy came out the other side,'' Mr. Coalson said. ''That made all the difference.''
 Jo Crouser, the ambulance service coordinator for the Fire Department, said the report of a gas leak initially seemed like a routine call. 
 Ms. Crouser said she had just finished mopping the floor in the fire station kitchen when the blast knocked her against the wall.
 She cried as she talked about Mr. Dorsey, who was planning a wedding to the mother of his year-old son. 
 ''He always called me Mama Jo,'' Ms. Crouser said. ''I told him he was my baby. He was the youngest one I had back there.''
 Jeffrey Lee Treadway, 21, and Glen Ray Bennett, 44, both from Beckley, also died at the scene. Steve Tanner, chief deputy for the Raleigh County Sheriff's Department, said that both men had responded to the propane-leak call and that ''the location of their bodies when we found them is consistent with that.''
 Sam Peters of Cool Ridge said he knew most of the victims. Mr. Peters came to the fire hall on Wednesday with an armload of fried chicken that joined the pot roast and homemade desserts on folding tables in the kitchen.
 ''This is just something my wife wanted to make,'' he said. ''It's the least we could do.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Federal workers combed the wreckage of a West Virginia store yesterday. An explosion there killed four men. (Photo by Jon C. Hancock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PROPANE (89%); GAS LEAKS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); VOLUNTEERS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); PARAMEDICS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); COUNTIES (71%); MINE WORKERS (71%); FAMILY (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%); COAL MINING (66%) Gas (Fuel); Propane; Explosions

ORGANIZATION: Flat Top Little General Store (Ghent, W Va)

PERSON: Daniel Heyman

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ghent (West Virginia)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



12 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agency Finds New Waste and Fraud in Iraqi Rebuilding Projects

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ; David Rohde contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
A federal oversight agency reported Wednesday that despite nearly $108 billion that had been budgeted for the reconstruction of Iraq since the 2003 invasion, the country's electrical output and oil production were still below prewar levels and stocks of gasoline and kerosene had plummeted to their lowest levels in at least two years.
 The United States alone has accounted for nearly $38 billion of the rebuilding money, according to the agency, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. 
 Even as the flow of reconstruction money from the United States is coming to an end, the litany of major American contractors that are suspected of having wasted large amounts of the money has lengthened, new investigations by the inspector general have found.
 One of the reports released on Wednesday found that an American company, DynCorp, appeared to act almost independently of its contracting officers at the Department of State at times, billing the United States for millions of dollars of work that was never authorized and starting other jobs before they were requested.
 The findings of misconduct against the company, on a $188 million job order to build living quarters and purchase weapons and equipment for the Iraqi police as part of a training program, were serious enough that the inspector general's office began a fraud inquiry.
 ''As a result of that audit, matters meriting investigation were uncovered,'' Stuart W. Bowen Jr., who is in charge of the office, said on Wednesday.
 Mr. Bowen declined to give further details but said that he was also initiating a countrywide review of DynCorp's work in Iraq. The company has also received major contracts to train police in Afghanistan.
 Gregory Lagana, a DynCorp spokesman, said the company would investigate the report's findings. ''We are looking into the issues raised by the inspector general with the goal of providing as full an accounting as possible,'' Mr. Lagana said. ''We believe we acted responsibly and with all due concern for the expenditure of public funds.''
 One major investigation begun by Mr. Bowen's office came to an end on Monday when Robert J. Stein Jr., a former Pentagon contractor who confessed to stealing millions of dollars in a bribery and fraud scheme in the southern Iraqi city of Hilla in 2004, was sentenced to nine years in federal prison.
 But Mr. Bowen said Wednesday that his office had 80 active investigations of potential criminal activity in Iraq. Some 23 cases have been handed over to the Justice Department, ''and they are making progress on those,'' he said.
 The latest reports by Mr. Bowen's office appear to show that it is not for lack of money that the performance of Iraq's basic infrastructure has fallen to disastrous levels in some cases; if anything, the rebuilding program seems to have been given more money than it has been able to use to any effect.
 In a sweeping breakout of financing sources, one analysis, in a quarterly report released Wednesday, shows that Congress has now passed eight bills that have provided $38.2 billion for the rebuilding effort, while Iraq itself has dedicated $50.5 billion to the effort. International donors have pledged $15.2 billion, although only a small portion of that has so far materialized.
 One example of the problems Iraq has faced in using those enormous amounts of money can be seen in connection with the $24.8 billion in Iraqi money that the Iraqi government has appropriated for the capital budget of its ministries from 2004 to 2007 -- in essence, a homegrown reconstruction budget.
 Despite the threadbare state of the oil, electricity, water, transportation and communications infrastructure here, the ministries managed to spend as little as 15 percent of those appropriated funds because of problems finding companies to do the work in dangerous places, a lack of skilled contracting officers and American-sponsored anticorruption programs that have intimidated Iraqi bureaucrats.
 Iraq faces those problems as the American money begins to run out. But even though American officials have managed to spend most of this money, its lasting impact on the quality of life in Iraq is highly debatable.
 Despite the allocation of more than $4 billion in American taxpayer money to electricity projects in Iraq, the nationwide electricity output recently dipped below the prewar level of about 4,200 megawatts after a brief period above it. The performance is so embarrassing to the United States that late last year, with no formal notice, the State Department eliminated the line indicating prewar output from its weekly report on electricity production in Iraq. 
 After a rally in the middle of 2006, the inspector general's quarterly report shows, Iraq's crude oil production has also been steadily slipping, a serious concern because oil is the basis of the Iraqi economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (88%); SENTENCING (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MISCONDUCT (75%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); BRIBERY (66%); PRISONS (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) Frauds and Swindling; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: Dyncorp

PERSON: James Glanz; Stuart W Jr Bowen

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



13 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Palo Alto Board Rejects Classes in Mandarin

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 31 

 BODY:
It would have seemed to be a perfect fit: an academically ambitious plan for an ambitiously academic city. 
 But after weeks of debate occasionally tinged with racial overtones, the Palo Alto Unified School District decided early Wednesday against a plan for Mandarin language immersion, citing practical concerns as well as whether the classes would give the small group of students in them an unfair advantage.
The proposal, which was voted down 3 to 2 after a marathon six-hour meeting of the district school board, would have established two classes taught mostly in Mandarin -- the world's most spoken language, used by nearly one billion Chinese -- to 40 kindergarten and first-grade students at a local elementary school. 
 Grace Mah, a second-generation Chinese-American and the founder of Palo Alto Chinese Education, which lobbied for the program, said the vote was a major disappointment.
 ''I think there's a number of people who are afraid of change,'' said Ms. Mah, a 46-year-old computer engineer and a mother of two, including a third-grader in Palo Alto schools. ''I think here's a number of people who don't believe in alternative education. And I think there's a number of people who insist on equity, when in life, it just isn't.''
 She added that her group might now try to start a charter school devoted to Mandarin. 
 The plan had prompted a flurry of community response in Palo Alto, an affluent Silicon Valley hub 35 miles south of San Francisco, known as the home to Stanford University and as a place where competition for slots in its excellent public schools can begin in kindergarten. About 17 percent of Palo Alto's population is Asian, according to the most recent census statistics. 
 The idea for a Mandarin immersion program was first floated here four years ago. The most recent plan was proposed to the board in December and then modified earlier this month. If approved, Palo Alto would have joined two other Bay Area cities with Chinese language immersion programs in schools. They are Cupertino, a Silicon Valley neighbor, and San Francisco, which has two Mandarin immersion programs and five in Cantonese, another Chinese dialect.
 And while Tuesday night's -- and Wednesday morning's -- debate was civil, two board members said they had received racially charged phone calls, e-mail messages and letters in the weeks leading up to their vote. One of the board members, Dana Tom, said he was upset by some of the comments, and surprised that they had come from a populace that prides itself on its sophistication. 
 ''I have higher hopes for our community, and yet, I'm not naive,'' said Mr. Tom, who is Chinese-American and voted against the plan. ''Sadly, we're not past all of that.''
 Proponents of the program cast it as not only a valuable tool in the global economy, but also as a way for Palo Alto to lead the way for other California school districts.
 ''We are in Palo Alto; we have the resources that other places don't,'' said Camille Townsend, the board president, who voted for the plan. ''When we say we can't do it here, it's like saying you can't do it anywhere.'' 
 But Ann Pianetta, whose 16-year-old son is a sophomore in Palo Alto and soon faces the college admissions tests, was among other parents who said the idea of some children having access to special programs struck them as undemocratic.
 ''I'm all for foreign languages, but I think the delivery system is bad,'' said Ms. Pianetta, who started a volunteer after-school Japanese class for her son and other students. ''It deprives this education to all these other kids. A public school is supposed to be a public school.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); NEW ISSUES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CENSUS (65%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%) Education and Schools; Mandarin Language; Asian-Americans

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Palo Alto (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



14 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Are Facing Big Increases In U.S. Fees

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Federal immigration authorities proposed yesterday to raise fees for visas and citizenship documents by an average of 66 percent, promising to use the added money to modernize and speed up an antiquated, overburdened bureaucracy. 
 Emilio Gonzalez, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the increases were necessary because the agency's fees were not covering the costs of processing more than seven million applications a year and about 135,000 security background checks a day. Since 1988, Congress has required the agency to pay for its services entirely with the fees it collects.
 In exchange for higher fees, Mr. Gonzalez pledged, the agency will reduce the average time to process documents, currently about six months, 20 percent by 2009. 
 ''I need these fees to give the service that the immigration community expects,'' Mr. Gonzalez said at a news conference in Washington. Since the Sept. 11 attacks, he said, the agency's costs for security measures have soared, with no new revenue to keep pace.
 In an unusual convergence of views amid the polarized debate over immigration, the proposal brought outcries from groups favoring more immigration and groups that want less of it. They called the fee increases exorbitant and said Congress should appropriate money for technology and infrastructure improvements at the agency. 
 ''I don't think the cost of overhauling the bureaucracy should be on the backs of prospective immigrants,'' said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which advocates more channels for legal immigration. ''You're asking future immigrants to pay for the agency's failings of the last decade.''
 Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors curbing immigration, said, ''The citizenship application fees should not be designed to keep people from becoming citizens.''
 Fees would continue to be waived for refugees seeking asylum and for immigrants who are victims of human trafficking or sexual violence. Otherwise, the increases would vary by document, but some would be large. The fee for an application to become a citizen would rise to $595 from $330, an 80 percent increase. The cost for an employer to bring in a foreign worker would jump to $475 from $195, an increase of 144 percent. For an American who wanted to bring a foreign fiance to live in the United States, the cost would be $455, up 170 percent from $170.
 Perhaps the most daunting proposed increase is for immigrants seeking to become permanent residents, whose fee would rise to $905 from $325. Immigration officials argued that the jump would not be as great as it appeared, because the fee would be charged only once. Under the current system, they said, immigrants seeking resident status often have to pay interim fees while they are waiting for their application to inch through the bureaucracy, making the average cost $800.
 According to census figures, three of four Mexican and Central American immigrant households in the United States have annual incomes of less than $25,000 a year. The new fees ''basically become an economic wall,'' said William Ramos, a spokesman for the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, which represents 6,000 officials nationwide. 
 Immigration authorities said they expected to process just under 10 million fee-paying applications in the two years after the rules were adopted, reaping an additional $1 billion a year. They said they would use the money to build new facilities and buy digital technology, to convert the agency from an aging system still based on paper. The last time the fee structure was completely revised was in 1998.
 ''It's like any corporation,'' Mr. Gonzalez said of his agency. ''This is a $2-billion-a-year corporation that has to remain solvent every single day, while we have to provide benefits to an increasing number of customers.'' 
 Mr. Gonzalez acknowledged that many aspiring immigrants encountered ''dingy buildings, rude employees'' and bureaucratic gridlock when they approached the agency now. But he said the possibility of seeking money from Congress had not been raised during the agency's internal review. 
 The agency opened a 60-day period of public comment on the proposed fees yesterday. The final rules are not expected before June. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); CITIZENSHIP (93%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); NATURALIZATION (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORISM (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%); CENSUS (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Visas; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Citizenship

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: Julia Preston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



15 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Agriculture Dept. Urges Big Overhaul in Farm Policy

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
The Bush administration yesterday proposed legislation that would reduce payments to farmers by $10 billion over the next five years and cut off support for wealthy ones entirely.
 The measure, which would succeed a five-year agricultural authorization expiring at the end of this year, was described by some critics of current policy as perhaps the most reform-minded farm bill in decades.
If approved by Congress, it would also reduce some trade-distorting payments that have gotten the United States into trouble with the World Trade Organization, and might put pressure on the European Union to reduce its own farm subsidies, steps that could restart stalled global trade talks. 
 But aspects of the plan, especially the proposal to cut off payments to farmers earning more than $200,000 a year, are already rankling some farm groups. Mary Kay Thatcher, a lobbyist with the American Farm Bureau Federation, said farmers would have ''serious concerns'' about that provision.
 ''You have to get a bigger economy of scale these days to make it in farming,'' Ms. Thatcher said. ''We are all for small farmers, but we are also for what makes economic sense.''
 She said the federation's figures showed that the provision would affect 75,000 of the 700,000 farmers who have been collecting farm payments.
 At a news conference in Washington, Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns said the reduction in overall spending, to $87.8 billion over five years, reflected the administration's need to tighten the federal budget.
 But the Agriculture Department was able to propose billions in increased spending on some programs because of expectations that prices for commodities like corn, soybeans and wheat would be much higher. That would reduce farm subsidies.
 The proposal would increase conservation financing, for instance, by $7.8 billion and direct almost $5 billion to fruit, vegetable and other ''specialty'' growers, who have received little federal assistance in the past. It would also provide $1.6 billion for research and development on cellulosic ethanol, which comes from agricultural waste and nonfood crops.
 The proposal would actually increase overall direct payments to farmers by $5.5 billion, or 10 percent, over 10 years.
 But it would also reduce large loans that, Brazil and other countries have argued, distort global trade. The United States is already under pressure to respond to Brazil's successful challenge at the World Trade Organization to the American cotton program.
 In addition, the proposal would save $3.7 billion over 10 years by adjusting cyclical payments that have been based on low commodity prices. Under the legislation, the payments would be based instead on low yields per acre, a system that could aid drought-afflicted farmers who wind up with little revenue. 
 The department noted that under the government's current policies, only 9 percent of all American farms collected 54 percent of all government commodity payments. 
 One critic of those policies, Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said that ''Secretary Johanns has really planted a flag for reform.'' Mr. Cook, who in pushing conservation has long been on the attack against federal subsidies to large farmers, said the measure was ''the most detailed proposal I have seen in the 30 years I have been working on agriculture issues.''
 Other groups, including the antipoverty organization Oxfam America, also praised the bill for seeking to cut off the richest growers while emphasizing support for beginning and poor farmers. 
 But the department faces a tough fight in Congress this spring, with an especially stiff challenge to the provision eliminating payments to wealthy producers. Under the proposal, subsidies would go only to growers who make less than $200,000 in adjusted gross income, a restriction affecting 71,800 farmers of the two million who declared farm income in 2003. 
 The current income cap is far more -- $2.5 million -- and it disappears altogether if at least 75 percent of a grower's income is farm-related.
 Europe has failed in its efforts to cap farm payments according to income. The European Commission proposed such limits in 2002 but withdrew the proposal when Germany and Britain indicated that they would not support it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns discussing his proposed legislation cutting farm payments. (Photo by Haraz N. Ghanbari/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (92%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); AGRICULTURE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (76%); COTTON MARKETS (76%); CORN MARKETS (76%); WHEAT MARKETS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); ALCOHOLS (63%); ETHANOL (61%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Law and Legislation; Farmers

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (56%)

PERSON: MIKE JOHANNS (58%) Alexei Barrionuevo; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



16 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Foundation Raising $50 Million Prize For Innovations

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Reduce poverty, win millions.
 The X Prize Foundation, which awarded $10 million to the maker of a private space vehicle in 2004, said Wednesday that it was starting a broad fund-raising campaign to raise $50 million. The money will be used to reward other innovators. 
 Over the next few years, the group plans to create contests that spur innovative thinking about poverty, energy consumption and health care, among other issues, said Tom Vander Ark, president of the foundation, which is based in Los Angeles.
 The group said it was holding a March 3 event at Google's headquarters to kick off the new fund-raising effort. Mr. Vander Ark said the group planned to award $200 million or more in 10 to 15 new prize categories over the next five years.
 The X Prize ''takes action by clearly defining the goal and providing the incentive for progress,'' Mr. Vander Ark said in a statement.
 The group is starting a contest to reward development of a hyperefficient car, able to get at least 100 miles a gallon. The car must be in production and available for purchase. The prize is likely to be $25 million, Mr. Vander Ark said.
 It awarded a $10 million purse to a company led by the aircraft designer Burt Rutan and the Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen. They built a vehicle that went into suborbital space in 2004.
 Last October the foundation announced that it would award $10 million for technology that can map 100 human genomes in 10 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (79%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Inventions and Patents; Contests and Prizes; Philanthropy; Economic Conditions and Trends; Energy and Power; Conservation of Resources; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: X Prize (Group)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (50%) Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



17 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: US Airways Ends Bid For Delta

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Someday, the long-predicted wave of consolidation in the airline industry could occur. 
 But for now it will remain just that -- a prediction.
The latest chance at a merger ended yesterday, when US Airways withdrew its $10.2 billion offer for Delta Air Lines, after it failed to win the support of Delta's creditors, which included the Boeing Company and the federal pension agency. 
 The bid, originally made on Nov. 15 and subsequently raised, was scheduled to expire today. 
 The action was seen as a victory for Delta's chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, and its pilots' union, which led employees in a ''Keep Delta Our Delta'' campaign aimed at preserving the Atlanta-based airline's independence.
 Mr. Grinstein, 73, a white-haired industry veteran, had vowed to rejuvenate his tradition-laden airline before he retired. To do so, he had to fend off W. Douglas Parker, 44, who knit together his previous airline, America West, and US Airways to form a nimble national carrier.
 The deal's demise is the latest example of the difficulty any airline faces when it tries a hostile takeover of another carrier. Even friendly deals run into a myriad of problems in combining unions, routes and fleets. The task is even more complex in bankruptcy, where management essentially retains the right to put together a restructuring plan unless a judge decides otherwise, giving even the weakest carriers control over their fate. 
 So although industry specialists and executives have long predicted that airlines will eventually combine -- as perhaps the only way they can achieve consistent profitability -- others do not see that happening for the moment.
 ''I thought consolidation was a lot more likely a couple of years ago,'' when the industry was in the throes of its decline, said Herbert D. Kelleher, chairman and co-founder of Southwest Airlines. 
 Since then, however, lenders have come forward to help a number of airlines emerge from bankruptcy, including United Airlines, Aloha and Delta, which announced Tuesday that it had arranged $2.5 billion for its exit as soon as this spring.
 ''The carriers that went into Chapter 11 have done a very good job of getting their costs down and building up a lot of liquidity,'' Mr. Kelleher said. ''They're not as vulnerable as they once were, and you lessen the case for consolidation.''
 Yet, some analysts say they believe that Delta will eventually find a partner. The leading candidate is Northwest Airlines, also operating in bankruptcy, which participates in a code-sharing agreement with Delta and Continental Airlines. 
 In January, Delta and Northwest held talks about a possible alliance or merger, people familiar with Delta's plan said. 
 Mr. Grinstein has since denied that characterization, saying that the airline hired an investment banker only to gather information from Northwest. Northwest's chief executive, Douglas M. Steenland, said yesterday that his airline would remain independent through the end of this year. Continental has held conversations with United, whose chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, has repeatedly predicted consolidation will occur.
 In a statement, Mr. Parker of US Airways said he continued to believe that a merger would provide more value for Delta's creditors, and suggested that their committee had overstated concerns about such a deal.
 A deal would have combined Delta, the third-largest domestic airline by passenger volume, with US Airways, the fourth-largest. While US Airways claimed a merger would produce $1.65 billion in synergies and an airline with a dominant position in East Coast routes, Delta raised concerns about potential antitrust problems and the debt that a combined Delta-US Airways would carry. 
 Analysts, however, said the antitrust issues raised by Delta might have been overcome. 
 Philip A. Baggaley, an analyst with Standard & Poor's, said that other merger proposals might not encounter the same level of opposition. But time is running out, given the changing economic and political climate, he added.
 ''The airlines seeking a merger are not more likely to find a more sympathetic Department of Justice than right now,'' Mr. Baggaley said. ''And there's a lot of money out there, with banks who are willing to finance combinations.''
 Had Delta's bankruptcy gone on longer, US Airways might have had an easier time persuading creditors to consider its offer, said Fruman Jacobson, a partner with Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal in Chicago. He represented the creditors' committee in the United case, which lingered more than three years. 
 By contrast, Delta may be out of court protection about 20 months after it filed for Chapter 11. ''The way they really got the upper hand is that they're ready to come out of bankruptcy,'' Mr. Jacobson said.
 In a statement, Mr. Grinstein thanked the creditors' committee and Delta employees for supporting the airline's plans to remain independent. ''Using the bankruptcy process the right way, Delta people have transformed their company's business model,'' Mr. Grinstein said.
 And last night, company executives gathered in Atlanta to reilluminate an airport sign that has long been a landmark there. It reads, ''Fly Delta Jets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Labor; Organized Labor

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (94%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); BOEING CO (72%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (69%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US Airways; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (94%); LCC (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (72%); BAB (BRU) (72%); BA (NYSE) (72%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (72%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (79%) Gerald A Grinstein; Micheline Maynard; Michael J De La Merced

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



18 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tells Wall St. to Rethink Pay Practices

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
President Bush yesterday called on corporate boards to hold their chief executives more accountable by tying their pay to performance -- a new message from a president who is closely allied to the business community.
 Addressing business leaders on Wall Street, Mr. Bush said ''the salaries and bonuses of C.E.O.s should be based on their success at improving their companies and bringing value to their shareholders.''
''America's corporate boardrooms must step up to their responsibilities,'' he said. ''You need to pay attention to the executive compensation packages that you approve.'' 
 Mr. Bush's comments, made at one of Wall Street's great landmarks, Federal Hall National Memorial, were met with silence from an otherwise friendly crowd gathered to hear what the White House billed as a ''State of the Economy'' speech. It came more than a week after his State of the Union address, and days ahead of the unveiling of his annual budget on Monday.
 The president may be buffeted by bad news out of Iraq and record-low poll ratings, but he was buoyed on yesterday by positive economic signals. And he purposely chose Wall Street as the arena for his message that the economy is vibrant, a theme his aides hope can help him rebuild his flagging support. 
 The visit included a surprise stop on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, where his path through the crowd was marked by an audible wake of cheers. 
 (White House officials said Ronald Reagan was the only other president to visit the stock exchange during trading hours.)
 With Democrats and some Republicans continuing to discuss resolutions critical of his new plan for Iraq in Washington, Mr. Bush used his speech earlier at Federal Hall to flaunt new economic data.
 Speaking before the Association for a Better New York, a civic group, Mr. Bush invited Democrats to join him in finding a long-term fix for Social Security, warned them against raising taxes and asked lawmakers from both parties to renew his authority to negotiate trade deals and submit them to Congress for straight up or down votes without amendments. 
 The president's trade authority is set to expire July 1. He indicated that he expected his call for its renewal to prompt a fierce debate with members of Congress who have expressed increasing concern about the effect of global trade deals on American workers -- an issue in the 2006 midterm elections and certain to be one again in 2008. 
 ''I know there's going to be a vigorous debate on trade, and bashing trade can make for good sound bites on the evening news,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But walling off America from world trade would be a disaster for our economy. Congress needs to reject protectionism.''
 Democrats have said that they would seek to include new environmental and labor requirements for future trade deals as a condition for renewing the president's negotiating authority.
 His call for closer scrutiny of executive pay seemed to pit him against natural allies in the business community who have supported him throughout his political career.
 For the last few years, shareholder advocates and lawmakers have criticized the growing chasm between executive pay and workers' salaries, often in harsh tones. But executive pay continues to rise rapidly. 
 The average pay for a top executive is now 170 times that of the average worker, according to recent academic research. 
 White House officials said that Mr. Bush decided to raise the issue out of his own sense of outrage over deals in which executives have left flagging or failed companies with huge compensation packages, as workers and lower-level executives have been left far behind. 
 But officials said there was also an economic concern: that distrust of corporate executives over their pay had the potential to scare individual investors out of the market.
 ''Our capital markets are based on trust,'' said Dan Bartlett, the White House counselor.
 Mr. Bush said he did not believe that the government should interfere in corporate governance, a swipe at Democratic plans to push legislation requiring shareholder votes on pay packages. Rather, he said he supported new rules by the Securities and Exchange Commission requiring greater disclosure of executive pay packages.
 ''I appreciate the fact that the S.E.C. has issued new rules to ensure that there is transparency when it comes to executive pay packages,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The print ought to be big and understandable.''
 But compensation experts say that better disclosure has often led to even greater paychecks once executives see what their peers make and demand that their boards match or exceed it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush said that the economy is vibrant at the Federal Hall National Memorial in Lower Manhattan yesterday. He also asked Democrats to help him fix Social Security and warned them against raising taxes. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BONDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (83%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); BONUS PAY (73%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); BUDGETS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Wages and Salaries; Boards of Directors; Social Security (US); Taxation; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



19 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; THE GOVERNOR'S BUDGET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: SPITZER BUDGET SEEKS OVERHAUL OF HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed to radically restructure aid to New York's sprawling health care industry in his first budget Wednesday, saying that the system props up failing hospitals and too often overlooks patients' needs, while consuming roughly a third of the state's budget.
 The health care changes were among several ambitious proposals that the new governor outlined in his $120.6 billion budget, which would increase overall spending by 6.3 percent -- about double the rate of inflation -- and cut $1.2 billion from existing health care programs. The cuts would offset billions of dollars worth of proposed property tax cuts and increased education aid.
Many of the governor's ideas, which followed up on his campaign pledge to toss aside the conventional way of doing business in Albany, would indeed reshape the way the state operates. But they face tough going in the Legislature, where Mr. Spitzer's brash style has already put him on a collision course with the top legislative leaders, prematurely ending the political honeymoon that often greets newly elected governors. [News analysis, Page B5.] 
 To control health care spending, Mr. Spitzer would hold the growth of Medicaid to 1.7 percent, compared to 8 percent growth rates in recent years, by cutting subsidies to hospitals and nursing homes, slashing Medicaid reimbursement rates and by stepping up efforts to combat fraud. Conversely, he outlined a plan to make low-cost health insurance coverage available to the state's 400,000 uninsured children.
 His budget also called for several other major measures. 
 One was an education plan that would increase state aid to schools by $7 billion annually within four years and throw out the complex formula used to distribute school aid around the state. New York City would receive $3.17 billion more annually within four years, with the expectation that the city stick to Mayor Michael Bloomberg's plan to increase its own spending by $2.2 billion annually within four years.
 But a new municipal-aid formula would favor impoverished cities and take nearly $350 million a year away from New York City.
 The budget also includes a $1,000- per-child tax deduction for private school tuition. Similar proposals failed to pass under the previous governor.
 Another was a $6 billion, three-year property tax relief plan that would focus new aid on middle-class homeowners, granting an average of $920 in relief for such families in the New York suburbs and an average of $512 upstate. The Senate has proposed distributing the same amount of money in two years in a more broadly based manner. 
 A third major proposal would increase the state work force by nearly 2,500, including 355 workers who would carry out new policies on civil commitment of sexually violent predators. The governor also proposed creating 166 new environmental and conservation jobs, and create an office specializing in climate change to look at ways to reduce global warming.
 Mr. Spitzer, readying for a fight over the health care cuts and school aid, told lawmakers on Wednesday morning that he would take his case to the public. Polls show the governor is far more popular than the Legislature. 
 ''I'm going to be out there talking to voters, citizens, homeowners, taxpayers, editorial boards,'' the governor said in his speech to lawmakers. ''I'm going to be speaking to anybody who will listen. This is not a debate that will be cloistered in the halls of this building. This is a debate that I plan to bring to the people.'' 
 The Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a frequent ally of the health care industry, said he had ''serious differences'' with the governor's proposals, and also took aim at his style. 
 ''When you're governing, it's all about compromise,'' he added. People who ''draw lines in the sand don't get on-time budgets. They don't get results.''
 In taking on the health care system, Mr. Spitzer is confronting the nation's costliest Medicaid program, one that helps support an expansive but money-losing hospital industry with arcane financing rules often designed to keep state aid in place, no matter the effect on patient care.
 The health care proposals drew a sharp and immediate response from two politically powerful interest groups, the Greater New York Hospital Association and 1199 S.E.I.U., the health care workers' union, which, in a joint statement, said the governor's health proposals were ''riddled with inaccuracies.'' 
 Those two groups have cultivated close ties to legislators and spent millions on political contributions, and in the past have defeated similar proposed cuts by saturating the airwaves with television commercials explaining their viewpoint.
 The governor's Medicaid proposals would freeze reimbursement rates to hospitals and nursing homes, lower reimbursements to pharmacies and overhaul payments to hospitals to help them increase salaries. 
 But many advocacy groups were supportive, saying the proposals brought needed reform to a byzantine system of paying for health care. Michael Kink, legislative counsel of Housing Works, an advocacy and service organization for people with AIDS, said the governor ''moves health care money towards patients and front-line care providers, and away from big institutions that don't serve many Medicaid beneficiaries.''
 For his part, the governor contended that ''every patient will come out ahead in the long run,'' adding that large hospitals and nursing homes ''can afford it.''
 ''They are the ones who have received almost an unending supply of capital and cash over the last 10 or 15 years,'' he said. ''They will have to rationalize their own operations to make themselves accountable for those dollars they are getting.'' 
 Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the cuts could hurt patient care. ''He cuts us and we have to cut into the operations of the hospitals, particularly since no one has helped us by putting a freeze on our cost of doing business,'' he said.
 The governor's proposed spending increases exceeded former Gov. George E. Pataki's proposals in his executive budget a year ago -- which were just over 4 percent for the total budget. But in his speech, Mr. Spitzer emphasized that his proposals were far lower than the final budget that the Legislature enacted, which increased spending over all by more than 9 percent.
 Dealing just with the state's spending of its own money, not federal aid, the governor is proposing to increase total state spending 7.8 percent, to $83.6 billion, or about three times the rate of inflation projected for the state.
 Edmund J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, an affiliate of the conservative policy group the Manhattan Institute, called the proposed spending increase the largest in an executive budget ''since Pataki's first election-year budget.''
 ''Unless the normal law of physics is suspended, it lays the groundwork for a big increase,'' in spending, he said. 
 The governor said he was not proposing any new taxes, but Republicans disagreed, pointing to $449 million in business-tax loopholes that the governor is proposing to close and $67.7 million in new or higher fees in the budget. The governor also said he would create a special commission to explore whether some of the state's prisons can be closed.
 The governor warned lawmakers not to spend more than he was proposing, a notion that made some lawmakers roll their eyes. 
 ''I think it's kind of naive to think you're going to give this budget to the Legislature and they're not going to enhance it in some way,'' said James Tedisco, the leader of Republicans in the Assembly.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Growing State Budget''In his first budget since taking office, Gov. Eliot Spitzer proposed spending $120.6 billion this fiscal year.The state budget has continued to grow since Mario M. Cuomo and George E. Pataki were governors.Graph tracks total state spending since 1984.Mr. Spitzer's proposed budget increase is the largest since 2000.Graph shows Governor's Proposed Change In Spending.Mr. Spitzer plans to save $2.8 billion to close a gap . . .GENERAL FUND SAVINGS PLANFor fiscal year 2008Health care reform (freezing reimbursement rates to most providers
stricter anti-fraud activites
controlling cost of prescription drugs)$1.2 billionOther savings (maximizing federal aid
 stricter control of state agencies' spending)$1.1 billionClosing tax loopholes$449 million. . . and provide more school aid . . .Graph tracks school aid, proposed through 2011.. . . and property tax relief.Graph tracks property tax cut proposed through 2011.(Source by New York State Division of the Budget)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CHILDREN (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); INFLATION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Medicaid; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Education and Schools; Taxation; Property Taxes; Rebates; Children and Youth; Frauds and Swindling

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Danny Hakim; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Joseph L (Sen) Bruno

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



20 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Thousands in Mexico City Protest Rising Food Prices

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN; Antonio Betancourt contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 31 

 BODY:
Tens of thousands of workers and farmers filled this city's central square on Wednesday to protest spiraling food prices, ratcheting up the volume over a problem that has dogged President Felipe Calderon in his first weeks in office. 
 Left-wing parties joined the unions and peasant organizations that had called the protest. The protesters, some of whom handed out ears of corn, marched up Mexico City's main avenue to the Zocalo, the site of protests through much of the summer and fall against Mr. Calderon's election. 
The high cost of tortillas and other food staples has consumed politics here over the past few weeks, posing a stubborn challenge to Mr. Calderon as he seeks to project an image as a take-charge leader. It has spilled into the ever-simmering debate here over the country's commitment to free-market economics. 
 As marchers gathered at dusk in the city's main square, a former television personality, Veronica Velasco, read a statement condemning the government's policies. ''While other countries are looking for alternatives to neoliberal policies, in Mexico, the government has lagged behind and insisted in applying a model that, after a quarter century, has shown its inefficiency and inequality,'' the statement said.
 As night fell, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leftist candidate who narrowly lost to Mr. Calderon in July, spoke to the crowd. City officials would not give an estimate of the size of the protest.
 To opponents of Mr. Calderon's government, the spike in the price of tortillas is further proof that the free-market policies he has pledged to continue benefit the wealthy at the expense of the poor. The high prices are new ammunition for those who have previously pressed to renegotiate the agricultural chapter of the North American Free Trade Agreement to provide more protection for Mexican farmers, and for Mexico to end its dependence on imports of American corn and recover what nationalists call food sovereignty. 
 Mr. Calderon barely won a bitterly contested election in July against Mr. Lopez Obrador, who promised to roll back some of those policies. Aware that he would have to win over part of the population that has yet to see the benefits of free trade, Mr. Calderon quickly announced a series of social programs once he took office. He also cracked down on the drug trade, establishing an image as a decisive executive. He ordered the army into several cities to fight drug violence and summarily extradited 11 drug trafficking suspects to the United States. 
 But the tortilla price spiral appeared to come as a surprise. Although Mr. Calderon moved quickly, announcing a pact on Jan. 18 to freeze prices, the problem has not been resolved. Even with the pact, the news reports focused on the fact that the price ceiling for the tortillas of about 35 cents a pound was about 40 percent higher than the price three months earlier and contrasted that with the 4 percent increase in the minimum wage, which is still less than $5 a day. 
 But because fewer than 10 percent of tortilla producers signed on to the agreement, the government had little power over those who did not. In some areas, prices have risen to 45 cents a pound. There is little more that Mr. Calderon can do to contain prices without huge expenditures for subsidies. Most analysts agree that the main cause of the increase has been a spike in corn prices in the United States, as the demand for corn to produce ethanol has jumped. 
 But the uneven structure of Mexico's corn and tortilla industry has generated accusations -- none of them proved -- of hoarding and profiteering. Mexico's corn flour industry is controlled by two companies, Grupo Maseca and Minsa. Under the pact, Grupo Maseca agreed to keep prices for corn flour at 21 cents a pound. The government has promised to crack down on profiteers.
 Ken Shwedel, an agricultural economist in Mexico City for the Dutch agribusiness bank Rabobank, said prices were likely to remain high in the United States, which supplies about 25 percent of Mexico's corn. 
 ''This is the first time you've got a real agricultural shock to the economy,'' he said. ''The market economy isn't as benevolent as a state-run economy. The market is characterized by fluctuations. You have to live with it and know how to deal with it.'' 
 The marchers directed their blame at the government. ''When they get involved in something as elemental as tortillas, well that's just irresponsible,'' said Francisco Ruiz, 48, a telephone worker. Carola Ortega, 64, a member of a peasant group, said: ''We're here because the government always takes advantage of the poor. First it was tortillas, but we're not stupid; if tortillas go up, everything else does too.'' 
 Some analysts argue that the opposition has merely seized on a convenient issue and that it will blow over. 
 ''For the unions, it is about much more than tortillas,'' said Vidal Romero, a political scientist at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico, a Mexico City university. ''They want to make it clear to the president that they still have strength and not let the government do what it wants.''
 For the left, the tortilla issue is a new rallying cry after months of postelectoral protests. Mr. Romero said the left hoped to use the march to position itself as the main opposition force to Mr. Calderon's presidency. ''They want to draw oxygen from it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some protesters handed out ears of corn to workers and farmers who marched in Mexico City yesterday. (Photo by Luis Acosta/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (84%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CITIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ETHANOL (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); DRUG POLICY (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EXTRADITION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); RIOTS (60%) Demonstrations and Riots; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ethanol; Grain; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (91%) Elisabeth Malkin; Felipe (Pres) Calderon; Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (95%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mexico; Mexico City (Mexico); Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



21 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-10German Court Challenges C.I.A.'s Rendition PolicyA German court issued an arrest warrant for 13 people in the mistaken kidnapping and jailing of a German citizen of Lebanese descent, in the most serious legal challenge yet to the Central Intelligence Agency's secret transfers of terrorism suspects. A1 Chirac Questions Iran ThreatPresident Jacques Chirac said that if Iran had one or two nuclear weapons it would not pose a big danger and that if Iran were to launch a nuclear weapon against a country like Israel, it would lead to the immediate destruction of Tehran. A1 Britain Arrests 9 in Terror PlotThe British police arrested nine suspects accused of devising a plot that included plans to kidnap, torture and behead a British Muslim soldier and broadcast video images of his execution on the Internet. A3 Setback for H.I.V. MicrobicideEfforts to develop a topical microbicide to prevent H.I.V. infection during sex suffered a surprising setback when researchers announced that they had stopped two full-scale trials for safety reasons. 
 A3 Report on Iraqi Energy TroublesA United States oversight agency reported that despite nearly $108 billion budgeted for the reconstruction of Iraq since the 2003 invasion, Iraq's electrical output and oil production were still below prewar levels and stocks of gasoline and kerosene had plummeted to their lowest levels in at least two years. A8 NATIONAL A12-21 Biden Announces Bid, Then Defends CommentSenator Joseph R. Biden Jr. spent the day he formally announced his presidential campaign struggling to explain his description of a fellow Democratic candidate, Barack Obama, as ''the first mainstream African-American who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice-looking guy.'' A1 Judges Weigh EavesdroppingThree federal judges hearing the first appellate argument about the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program indicated they were not convinced that the issue was moot now that the Bush administration had agreed to submit the program to a secret court. A12 The Justice Department announced that it was turning over to select members of Congress secret papers with details of the eavesdropping program. Democrats, who still seek more information, had threatened to subpoena the documents. A12 Cheney's Daughter SpeaksMary Cheney, the lesbian daughter of Vice President Dick Cheney, defended her pregnancy and said same-sex couples were equally capable of raising children as heterosexual couples. A20House Moves Stopgap BudgetThe House of Representatives passed a $463.5 billion measure to keep the federal government running until Oct. 1, increasing financing for education grants, scientific research and international health programs. The Senate is expected to take up the measure next week. A20 NEW YORK/REGION B1-7Spitzer's First Budget Assails Health Care SystemGovernor Spitzer proposed to radically restructure aid to New York's health care industry in his first budget, assailing a system that consumes a third of the state's budget as propping up failing hospitals while too often overlooking patient needs. A1 Turmoil at the Bus StopThe consolidation of school bus routes in New York City has enraged many parents, who accuse Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein and Mayor Bloomberg of being out of touch. But the mayor defends the revision. A1 Behind a Death SentenceA confluence of factors made a Brooklyn jury's decision to sentence a Staten Island man to die for executing two police detectives seem almost inevitable, experts said. But the decision probably does not signal a shift in public attitudes about the death penalty, they said. B1BUSINESS DAY C1-14Fed Leaves Rates AloneThe Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, but it was more optimistic than in the past that inflationary pressures were ebbing even though economic growth was slightly stronger than expected. C10 Google's Profit SoarsGoogle, the largest Internet search engine, reported a sharp rise in sales and nearly a tripling of profit in the fourth quarter. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A22-23Editorials: Governor Spitzer's pivotal budget; bullying Iran; full disclosure of back-scratching; indefinitely grounded.Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.Bridge E10TV Listings E11Crossword E9Weather A18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); JUDGES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TORTURE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); BUDGETS (71%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (76%); JACQUES CHIRAC (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



22 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: The Iraq Syndrome, R.I.P.

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
After Vietnam, Americans turned inward. Having lost faith in their leadership class, many Americans grew suspicious of power politics and hesitant about projecting American might around the world.
 The Vietnam syndrome was real. It lasted all of five years -- the time between the fall of Saigon and the election of Ronald Reagan.
 Today, Americans are disillusioned with the war in Iraq, and many around the world predict that an exhausted America will turn inward again. Some see a nation in permanent decline and an end to American hegemony. At Davos, some Europeans apparently envisioned a post-American world. 
 Forget about it. Americans are having a debate about how to proceed in Iraq, but we are not having a strategic debate about retracting American power and influence. What's most important about this debate is what doesn't need to be said. No major American leader doubts that America must remain, as Dean Acheson put it, the locomotive of the world. 
 Look at the leaders emerging amid this crisis. The two major Republican presidential contenders are John McCain and Rudy Giuliani, the most aggressive internationalists in a party that used to have an isolationist wing.
 The Democrats, meanwhile, campaigned for Congress in 2006 by promising to increase the size of the military. The presidential front-runner, Hillary Clinton, is the leader of the party's hawkish wing and recently called for a surge of U.S. troops into Afghanistan. John Edwards, the most ''leftward'' major presidential contender, just delivered a bare-knuckled speech in which he castigated the Bush administration for not being tough enough with Iran. ''To ensure that Iran never gets nuclear weapons, we need to keep all options on the table,'' Edwards warned.
 This is not a country looking to avoid entangling alliances. This is not a country renouncing the threat of force. This is not a country looking to come home again. The Iraq syndrome is over before it even had a chance to begin.
 The U.S. has no material need to reconsider its dominant role in the world. The U.S. military still has no serious rivals, even after the strains of Iraq. The economy is humming along nicely. 
 The U.S. has no cultural need to retrench. Vietnam sparked a broad cultural revolution, a shift in values and a loss of confidence. Iraq has not had the same effect. Many Americans have lost faith in the Bush administration and in this particular venture, but there has been no generalized loss of faith in the American system or in American goodness.
 There hasn't even been a broad political shift in favor of the doves. The most important war critics are military types like Jack Murtha, Chuck Hagel and Jim Webb, who hate this particular war but were superhawks in other circumstances. 
 Finally, there has been no change in America's essential nature. As Robert Kagan writes in his masterful book ''Dangerous Nation,'' America has never really been an isolationist or aloof nation. The United States has always exercised as much power as it could. It has always coupled that power with efforts to spread freedom. And Americans have always fought over how best to fulfill their mission as the vanguard of progress.
 What's happening today is just another chapter in that long expansionist story. Today's debate in the Senate flows seamlessly from the history Kagan describes. Most senators agree that the tactical question of sending 20,000 more troops is not the central issue. Their core concern, they say, is finding a new grand strategy to stabilize the region. 
 Most senators want a much more aggressive diplomatic effort to go along with the military one. (If President Bush said his surge was part of an effort to establish a regional diplomatic conference, he'd have majority support tomorrow.) But they don't question the need for America to play a leading role. They take it for granted that the U.S. is going to be in the Middle East for a long time to come. 
 When you look further into the future, you see that the next president's big efforts will not be about retrenchment, but about expansion. They'll be about expanding the U.S. military, expanding the diplomatic corps, asking for more shared sacrifice, creating new interagency bureaus that will give America more nation-building capacity.
 In short, the U.S. has taken its share of blows over the past few years, but the isolationist dog is not barking. The hegemon will change. The hegemon will do more negotiating. But the hegemon will live.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ARMED FORCES (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%) United States International Relations; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008; Public Opinion; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN P MURTHA (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%); JIM WEBB (58%) David Brooks; John S (Sen) Mccain; Rudolph W Giuliani; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (89%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



23 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is the City's Guest, With 3 Mayors to Thank

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
The sometimes tense relationship between presidents and New York City mayors was seemingly set in tabloid stone 30 years ago with the famous Daily News headline following President Gerald R. Ford's decision not to bail the city out from a financial crisis. (''Ford to City: Drop Dead,'' it read, as if it has to be spelled out anymore.) 
 But yesterday provided something of a role reversal: President Bush came to promote strong national economic data and to do it in the glow of a New York City economy that he said was ''booming -- with a bond rating at an all-time high, and unemployment near an all-time low.''
The moment highlighted the unique relationship Mr. Bush has with New York City, to which he has been linked since the 2001 terrorist attacks, even though he is unpopular with many voters here.
 And as he spoke at the Federal Hall National Memorial on Wall Street for an event held by the Association for a Better New York, he addressed an audience that included not only business leaders but also three New York City mayors -- one of them a Republican, two of them Democrats.
 There was Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a late-blooming Republican, who kept his distance from the president throughout the 2005 mayoral campaign lest the president's low poll ratings rub off on him.
 Mr. Bloomberg seemed to receive slightly louder applause than Mr. Bush did yesterday, though, to be fair, both were warmly received and many of Mr. Bloomberg's own officials were in the audience. 
 But Mr. Bush did not seem to take offense either way.
 ''Mr. Mayor, thanks for being here, I appreciate you coming,'' Mr. Bush told Mr. Bloomberg. ''You're doing what people want you to do, and that is to lead this city.''
 Then there was former Mayor David N. Dinkins, the liberal Democrat. ''Mr. Mayor -- David Dinkins, thank you for being here,'' Mr. Bush said from the lectern. ''Proud you're here.''
 His warmest words were for Mayor Edward I. Koch, the Democrat who crossed party lines to endorse Mr. Bush in 2004.
 ''And it's good to see my buddy, Mayor Ed Koch,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Mr. Mayor, thank you for coming.''
 One former mayor who was not there: Rudolph W. Giuliani, the man at or near the top of many polls of possible Republican presidential contenders, who, according to an aide, was attending a fund-raiser out of town.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 1 about a visit to New York City by President Bush, and his relationship with the city, referred incorrectly to the ''Ford to City: Drop Dead'' headline that appeared in The Daily News following President Gerald R. Ford's decision not to bail the city out from a financial crisis. It was published more than 31 years ago, on Oct. 30, 1975 -- not 30 years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); BONDS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); FUNDRAISING (65%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; David N Dinkins; Edward I Koch; Jim Rutenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



24 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
UNION DRIVE AMID LUXURY -- The Service Employees International Union, which has waged campaigns to organize janitors and other workers, has set its sights on Fisher Island, Fla., one of the most concentrated pockets of wealth in the nation. [Page C1.] US AIRWAYS ENDS BID FOR DELTA -- US Airways withdrew its $10.2 billion offer for Delta Air Lines after it failed to win the support of Delta's creditors. The action was seen as a victory for Delta's chief executive, Gerald A. Grinstein, and its pilots' union. [C1.] BUSH FAULTS HIGH EXECUTIVE PAY -- President Bush called on corporate boards to hold their chief executives more accountable by tying their pay to performance -- a new message from a president who is closely allied to the business community. 
[C11.] A REFORM-MINDED FARM BILL -- The Bush administration proposed reducing farm payments by $10 billion over the next five years and cutting off money to wealthy farmers in what some critics said could be the most reform-minded farm bill in decades. [A20.] DELL BACK IN CHARGE -- Michael S. Dell, below, has taken back the leadership of the computer company he founded, replacing Kevin B. Rollins after more than a year of mounting problems at Dell. The company announced that Mr. Rollins had resigned as chief executive and as a director. [C1.] GOOGLE'S RISING PROFIT -- Google reported a sharp rise in both sales and profit in the fourth quarter, continuing the blockbuster growth of its search-driven advertising business. [C4.] SENATORS CRITICAL OF S.E.C. -- Two prominent Republican senators renewed their criticism yesterday of how the Securities and Exchange Commission carried out its investigation into a prominent hedge fund, Pequot Capital Management. [C2.] THE WRONG KIND OF ATTENTION -- A marketing campaign by Turner Broadcasting to promote a cartoon by using magnetic lights distributed in public places around Boston caused an uproar, as police closed off bridges, subway stations, an Interstate highway and part of the Charles River because of the suspicious packages. [A21.] INTEREST RATES UNCHANGED -- The Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, as it has since June, but it was more optimistic than in the past that inflationary pressures were ebbing. [C10.] DIMMING PROSPECTS -- Markets celebrated the Fed's action, but analysts warned the road ahead promises to be a hard slog. Corporate profits are starting to slow, and the chances of a rate cut this year have diminished. [C1.] GOOD DAY ON THE STREET -- Stocks shot higher after the Federal Reserve answered two of Wall Street's major concerns, indicating that the economy remained healthy and that inflation pressures were easing. [C11.] AUTOMAKERS FOCUS ON DEALERS -- Sales by General Motors and Ford are expected to be significantly lower in January as they pulled back from deliveries to rental-car agencies to focus on more profitable transactions at dealerships. [C11.] HEARING ON NAZI-ERA CLAIMS -- A federal judge abruptly adjourned a hearing on the settlement of a dispute over unpaid life insurance policies of Holocaust victims after a Miami lawyer and a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp raised objections. [C3.]TIMES CUTS PAPERS' VALUATION -- The New York Times Company said that it was writing down by $814.4 million the value of its New England newspapers, The Boston Globe and The Worcester Telegram & Gazette, which have suffered from sluggish advertising and a migration of readers to the Internet. [C2.] TWO BIG EXCHANGES IN DEAL -- The NYSE Group, parent of the New York Stock Exchange, has signed a letter of intent to form a strategic alliance with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, an agreement that brings together the world's two largest exchanges. [C3.] THE VALUE OF PERKS -- Activities and perks that surprise and delight employees -- like the skydiving flight that a software executive sent her staff on -- can be a great way to help employees bond. Small Business. [C5.] A BROAD RANGE OF READERS -- A variety of notables -- among them Sheryl Crow, Maya Lin, Tiki Barber and Alice Waters -- are appearing in ads for The Wall Street Journal to show that the paper appeals to readers other than those in pinstripes. Advertising. [C5.] ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.TIME WARNER, THE MEDIA conglomerate, said that quarterly profit rose 34 percent, bolstered by AOL asset sales in Europe, a rise in digital cable and phone customers, and online advertising sales. (REUTERS)EASTMAN KODAK POSTED its first profit in nine quarters on higher revenue from photo kiosks and savings from eliminating jobs. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE Corporation has extended a moratorium on considering nonfinancial companies' applications to establish or acquire banks, suspending applications from companies like Wal-Mart Stores, Home Depot and DaimlerChrysler. (AP)STARBUCKS SAID THAT first-quarter profit rose 18 percent as consumers spent more for holiday drinks like peppermint mocha. The company increased prices in October by about 5 cents a cup, the first rise in two years. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); INFLATION (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); PEQUOT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); MICHAEL DELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2007



25 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 831 words

 BODY:
VOTE FOR YOUR FAVORITE ... Voter-based competitions, inspired by the success of ''American Idol'' and the open culture of the Internet, are proliferating in every corner of the entertainment world. The trend is reshaping how consumers interact with television, music, film, video games and other media. [Page C1.] HIGH STAKES TV ADS -- The stakes for advertisers who buy spots during the Super Bowl have grown ever higher because good ads, and bad, will continue to live on in the Internet. [C1.] EARNING THOSE OIL PROFITS -- Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell reported record annual profits. 
[C1.] REAL ESTATE BATTLE NEARS END -- The bruising fight over Equity Office Properties, the nation's biggest office landlord, has entered its final round. But neither side has managed to land a knockout blow. [C1.] END OF A MAGICAL RUN -- The seventh -- and last -- installment of the record setting Harry Potter books, ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows,'' will be published on July 21, said J. K. Rowling, the author of the series. [E1.] SENATE REPORT CRITICIZES S.E.C. -- The Securities and Exchange Commission mishandled its inquiry into suspect trades by the Pequot Capital Management hedge fund, then may have tried to cover up its mistakes, a Senate report said. [C2.] SENATE VOTES ON MINIMUM WAGE -- The Senate voted overwhelmingly to increase the minimum wage for the first time in 10 years, and give $8.3 billion in tax cuts to small businesses. [A15.]BUSH SEEKS ENTITLEMENT CUTS -- President Bush will ask Congress in his budget next week to squeeze more than $70 billion of savings from Medicare and Medicaid over the next five years, administration officials and health care lobbyists said. [A15.] 2 CHARGED IN BOSTON SCARE -- Two men charged with placing electronic advertisements for a cartoon around Boston, sending the city into a panic, pleaded not guilty. [A14.] MARKETING MISFIRE -- Guerrilla marketing -- sending out street teams or posting ads in unusual places -- has become popular lately. But the Turner Broacasting campaign in Boston left the network scrambling to apologize. [C2.] DROP IN AMAZON'S EARNINGS -- Amazon.com's quarterly profit declined 51 percent as the company continued to spend on technology and discounted shipping programs, while sales increased 34 percent as more shoppers flocked to the online store. [C4.] A RUSSIA-IRAN GAS ALLIANCE -- The Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, said that Russia would consider OPEC-like cooperation with Tehran on sales of natural gas. [A10.] A JUMP IN CONSUMER SPENDING -- Consumer spending rose in December by the most in five months. [C8.] COMCAST'S POPULAR PACKAGE -- Comcast said that fourth-quarter profit nearly tripled as customers signed up for its discounted video, Internet and phone package, but the results fell short of expectations. [C2.] DRUG MAKER CUTS JOBS -- AstraZeneca said that it would cut about 3,000 jobs, or 4.6 percent of its global work force, to ensure future profit growth as generic competition hurts sales. [C8.] RELIGION-BASED HEALTH PLAN -- Regulators are challenging a Kentucky ruling that favors religion-based health plans. The ruling supports a Christian ministry that helpsmembers pay one another's medical bills. [C4.] CANADIAN FIRM BUYS PUTNAM -- A company controlled by the Power Corporation of Canada said that it would acquire Putnam Investments, the mutual fund manager, from the Marsh & McLennan Companies for about $3.9 billion. [C8.] MARKETS EMBRACE SPENDING DATA -- Stocks climbed for a third consecutive day, and both the Dow Jones industrials and the Russell 2000 index closed at highs, as an already buoyant Wall Street embraced robust consumer spending figures. [C8.]ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.Raytheon, the world's largest manufacturer of missiles, said that its fourth-quarter profit rose 26 percent on higher foreign sales and electronics work for a new Navy ship. The company increased its sales and earnings forecasts for 2007. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)Electronic Arts, the video game maker, benefiting from strong holiday sales of games used on the PlayStation 3, exceeded Wall Street's expectations despite a 38 percent drop in third-quarter sales. (AP)The Clorox Company said that second-quarter profit rose 16 percent as higher prices overshadowed an increase in advertising costs. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)International Paper said that fourth-quarter profit rose, driven by a gain from the sale of forestlands and strong results from its industrial packaging unit. (REUTERS)CA Inc., the maker of software for mainframe computers, said that third-quarter profit fell 12 percent because of restructuring costs. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)Anheuser-Busch, the brewing company, posted a higher quarterly profit, driven by stronger shipments of beer, higher prices and demand for its imports. (REUTERS)Archer Daniels Midland posted a record quarterly profit on higher selling prices for ethanol and corn sweetener. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Amazon shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LOBBYING (79%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); WRITERS (72%); FILM (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); TAX LAW (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); MEDICAID (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (71%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); PEQUOT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (71%); RDSA (AMS) (71%); RDS.B (NYSE) (71%); RDS.A (NYSE) (71%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (71%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



26 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Still Almighty, For Now

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Is New York's status as financial capital of the world in danger?
 As the rhetoric has heated up in Washington, that idea has been bandied about. There is talk that London's stock market will get more new listings, and that Chinese companies will go there rather than to New York to raise capital. There are pushes to relax American regulations and make it harder to file lawsuits against companies.
But there are other signs that nothing of the sort is happening. American investment banks are coining money as never before, whether in New York, London or other places, and still have their pick of the best and brightest young graduates the world over. 
 Detroit and Pittsburgh can only dream of their major industries suffering as New York's is.
 And the role of the dollar in international trade and finance -- the real sign that New York is the world's financial capital -- is still taken for granted. If a Brazilian company agrees to buy something from a company in Japan or Turkey, chances are that the contract will be in dollars. If one of those companies needs to tap the international capital markets, the chances are good that it will borrow dollars. The central bank of its country is likely to hold the bulk of its reserves in dollar-denominated assets.
 Such dominance is not, however, guaranteed. Less than a century ago, a suggestion that the United States would attain that status would have seemed odd, if not foolish. Memories of the Panic of 1907, in which the American government stood helpless and J. Pierpont Morgan had to step in to stem the crisis, did nothing to reassure overseas investors.
 It would now be heresy to suggest that a country could gain international stature by closing its capital markets for a prolonged time, but an insightful new book by William L. Silber, an economist at New York University, argues that the closing of the New York Stock Exchange at the outbreak of World War I played a critical role. The exchange remained closed for four months.
 The conventional view was that the exchange was closed to keep share prices from plunging. But the book, ''When Washington Shut Down Wall Street,'' asserts that historians -- and contemporary observers -- had it wrong. 
 Mr. Silber argues that prices would have recovered quickly, and that Washington knew it. But with Europeans selling shares to raise money for the war, America faced an outflow of gold.
 By delaying the reopening of Wall Street and making sure that American grain was ready to be exported to Europe to bring in gold, the United States was able to stay on the gold standard and become an alternative to London as a financial capital. By late 1915, Britain and France were borrowing money in New York, denominated in dollars.
 The war was not decisive. Even after it was over, London remained the financial capital, and the British pound the major world currency. But by the late 1920s, New York was a clear and close alternative, and it was ready to assume unquestioned leadership after World War II.
 The dollar now has its problems. It has weakened against major currencies, the United States is all but begging China to allow the dollar to shrink against the renminbi, and the current-account deficit keeps rising. 
 ''The dollar overhang makes us vulnerable,'' Mr. Silber said when I called him this week, ''the same way Britain became vulnerable at the outbreak of the Great War.''
 But inertia is great in such markets. ''The dollar will not lose its role as international money anytime soon, even though we are vulnerable, because you need a credible alternative to topple the king,'' Mr. Silber said. 
 The euro is the most likely rival, but it remains a currency without a country and, Mr. Silber said, ''needs a generation of political stability to be a safe-haven currency.''
 Still, even with its disadvantages, the euro has come on strong. Figures kept by the International Capital Market Association indicate that the outstanding total of international corporate bonds in euros is now greater than the total in dollars. Central banks are starting to diversify their reserves.
 The United States has profited greatly by having a printing press for the currency the world wants. Efforts to protect that position -- by slowing the erosion of the dollar and reducing the balance-of-payments deficit -- are barely on the political radar.
 A generation from now, Americans may marvel at the complacency that assumed the dollar's dominance would never end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); BONDS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); HISTORY (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); WORLD WAR I (66%); LITERATURE (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Books and Literature; Currency

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

PERSON: William J Silber; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



27 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Record Profit For Exxon And Shell

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
Oil prices have fallen, but Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell left their smaller competitors in the dust and reported record annual profits Thursday.
 By making $180 million a day between them, the two largest publicly traded oil companies displayed their ability to ramp up production worldwide over the year, even in unstable places like Chad and Nigeria. Growth may be slowing and is likely to continue to do so in the future, but these two companies showed they could navigate the year's volatile energy prices that caused smaller companies to stumble in their fourth-quarter profits.
 The expanding profits at Exxon Mobil and Shell, however, may also make them big targets for the Democratic Congress whose leaders want oil companies to pay higher taxes and work to curb global warming. 
 Analysts said that with oil prices rebounding again with more frigid weather, the entire industry is almost assured of seeing strong profits again this year.
 Production in Mexico and Venezuela is declining because of politics, poor management, investment shortfalls and aging fields. And in Russia, production is slowing because of tensions between the government and foreign oil and gas companies over big investments. With worldwide crude inventories full, Saudi Arabia is keeping production in check to maintain its influence over pricing.
 Energy consumption in China and India, meanwhile, continues to soar. 
 Just a few weeks ago, many traders were predicting that oil would fall below $50 a barrel. But now the consensus of traders is that $50 is more likely a floor, so that big profits should continue in an industry that is swimming in cash.
 ''Only a few months ago, I thought oil prices could go down to $40 and natural gas prices to $5,'' laughed Fadel Gheit, senior energy analyst at Oppenheimer & Company, who has since tossed out those expectations.
 As for the earnings, he said: ''The brutal focus on efficiency makes Exxon Mobil head and shoulders above everybody else. They arrive ahead of all the passengers, even those traveling on the same train.''
 Exxon reported annual profit of $39.5 billion, or $6.62 a share, for 2006 -- its second consecutive annual record. Once again, the profit was the largest reported by any American company in history.
 While Exxon's fourth-quarter results were actually down a bit from the year before, the enormity of its annual profits had Democratic politicians shaking their heads.
 Under Democratic control, the House of Representatives quickly passed legislation last month to raise nearly $15 billion in taxes and royalties and use that money to finance research for alternative fuels. Many in the Senate support similar legislation, which may get a boost from a common perception in Congress that large oil companies are richer than ever and not doing their part to curb global warming.
 As soon as Exxon Mobil released its earnings, Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, who is a leading Democratic spokesman on energy issues, accused the company of using its ''outlandish profits'' to lobby for energy policies that benefit it rather than the American people.
 ''The hypocrisy of the oil and gas lobbyists is so high that even as these record profits gush from their company balance sheets, they try to block all attempts to recover the royalties they owe the American taxpayer,'' Mr. Markey, who is on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement.
 Apparently sensitive to perceptions, Shell did not announce that its annual profit was a company record. 
 The profitable results of the two companies came after reports by other energy companies in recent days that slipping commodity prices, rising steel and labor costs and higher royalties and taxes had hurt their bottom lines.
 Exxon's refining and chemical businesses benefited from the dip in gas prices, giving it a cushion that the smaller companies did not have. Its worldwide oil production increased modestly over the year, though it declined slightly in the fourth quarter.
 Shell reported a 21 percent rise in its fourth-quarter earnings, to $5.28 billion. That was mostly a result of a 4.1 percent increase in daily production of oil, to 3.65 million barrels, in the quarter. The company also continued to profit from its superior marketing and refining ability outside the United States.
 Shell's income in 2006 was $25.44 billion, up from $25.3 billion in 2005.
 Shell predicted oil and gas production growth of 1 percent to 2 percent annually through 2010, and slightly more after that.
 Exxon reported profit of $10.25 billion, or $1.76 a share, in the fourth quarter. That represented a decline of 4.3 percent from the fourth quarter of 2005, when energy prices soared after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 Shares of Exxon Mobil rose 98 cents, or 1.32 percent, to $75.08, while American depository receipts of Shell rose $1.23, or 1.80 percent, to $69.48. 
 Occidental Petroleum, ConocoPhillips, Hess and several other oil companies have reported drops in quarterly profits in recent days, but those results are in comparison to record or near-record in the quarters a year earlier.
 Exxon executives concede that the company faces some big potential hurdles in the coming months should OPEC countries cut production quotas and negotiations go badly over transfer of control of operations in Venezuela. 
 Nicole Decker, an oil analyst at Bear Stearns, cautioned that 2007 could be a problematic year for oil companies because increased steel and labor costs ''have not been reflected in the bottom line yet.'' She added that while she could imagine oil prices rising above $60 in the coming months, ''I don't think anybody thinks oil prices will go up to where they once were.''
 She said increased production in Malaysia and Azerbaijan this year could help nudge down prices. 
 The lower fourth-quarter profits at many oil companies mostly reflected declines in oil and gas prices at the end of last year. Oil prices for the quarter ranged from $55 to $63 a barrel, averaging just shy of $60. That represented a 15 percent decline from the third quarter, but less than 1 percent lower than the fourth quarter of 2005.
 Oil prices for all of 2006 averaged $66, or $10 higher than in 2005, according to a recent Citigroup report on the energy industry. Oil prices reached a high of $77 in July, but they dipped to as low as $52 in recent weeks.
 Prices have firmed up lately on speculation among traders that fuel supplies in much of the United States will decline in the coming weeks because of cold weather and better-than-expected economic growth. Prices edged down slightly Thursday, to $57.30, and are about 10 percent lower than a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fuel delivery to a service station in Keller, Tex. Exxon Mobil reported that it earned $39.5 billion in 2006. (Photo by Donna McWilliam/Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''. . . All the Way to the Bank''Many companies reported record results for 2006. Here are the biggest one-year corporate profits.NET INCOME -- In billions of dollars, not adjusted for inflation(Sources by Standard & Poor's
Exxon Mobil
Royal Dutch Shell
Citigroup
 Bank of America)Graph: ''Black Gold'' shows that Exxon Mobil profits have soared in recent years. (figures from 2001.)(Source by Exxon Mobil)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONSUMPTION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); TRAINS (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Company Reports

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (98%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (96%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil; Royal Dutch Shell

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (98%); RDSA (LSE) (96%); RDSA (AMS) (96%); RDS.B (NYSE) (96%); RDS.A (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (54%) Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) NIGERIA (92%); CHAD (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); INDIA (75%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



28 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: United States of Florida

BYLINE: By JULIA LAWLOR

 BODY:
IT takes a big state to absorb the entire North every winter, but once again, Florida is pulling it off. From Miami to Pensacola, the cold-weather escapees have been filtering in, completing the midwinter migration to the Northerners' land of dreams -- or at least, the land of polo shirts and khaki shorts. And with more than 50,000 square miles of territory, Florida has plenty of room for all of them -- sun-hungry retirees, peripatetic second-home owners and seasonal settlers -- to spread out. 
 So why don't they?
It's not exactly regimentation, and there are plenty of exceptions to be found, but Florida's winter arrivals clearly like to settle in clumps. Even in the sunny South, they seem to want to be among their own -- occupying turf in the company of their clans, their neighbors, their golf buddies and, in general, people who share the cadences of their accents and the colors of their license plates. 
 That's why the Miami area is called the Sixth Borough -- and why Palm Beach County voters lamenting the weaknesses of the butterfly ballot in 2000 so often sounded like Long Islanders. 
 It's why Memphis families returning from spring break will be walking around with white sand from the Panhandle city of Destin (not Fort Myers, certainly not Miami) between their toes. 
 It's the reason two newspapers in French, with a Quebecois tilt, are published in the Fort Lauderdale-area city of Hollywood and a big Quebec bank, Caisse populaire Desjardins, has started three branches nearby, complete with French-flashing A.T.M.'s. 
 New Englanders settle around Sarasota, and Philadelphians camp out nearby in Clearwater. Minnesotans congregate on Sanibel Island; Ohioans on the Gulf Coast east of Panama City. Carolinians find their own in Daytona. 
 In the beginning, all of this segmentation was a function of the Interstates. From the Midwest, the most direct route to Florida, I-75, goes to the West Coast. From the Northeast, I-95 follows the East Coast straight down to Miami. From Alabama, Tennessee and Georgia, it's a comfortable drive to the Panhandle. 
 Now, of course, you can board a flight to just about anywhere in Florida. But Northerners cling to the old patterns anyway. 
 ''They're like birds,'' said John Tuccillo, an economist in Arlington, Va., who serves as a real estate consultant to businesses and government agencies. ''They keep to their flyways.'' Demographers have a name for it: chain migration. ''People who live near each other share information about where to retire, where to vacation,'' said Lance deHaven-Smith, a professor of public administration at Florida State University in Tallahassee. ''They tell their friends and neighbors, and then they end up in the same place.'' 
 Sometimes those flyways can be very narrow. Often a Florida resort has a chillier twin farther north. Seventy-five percent of second-home owners on Ponte Vedra Beach near Jacksonville are from Atlanta, according to Linda Sherrer, a broker with Prudential Network Realty. Palm Beach County has its counterpart in New York's Nassau and Suffolk Counties. Even Staten Island has a colony, in the Villages, a sprawling retirement and golf community southeast of Ocala. 
 FOR years, the high-toned West Coast resort town of Naples has been a domain of suburban Detroit. So many retired General Motors executives have homes there (including the former chief executives Roger Smith and Jack Smith) that a group got together and formed the 120-member Gulf Shores GM Retired Executives Club.
 The Detroit connection may have solidified on the day in 2001 when Nina Machus, a snowbird from the suburb of Bloomfield Hills, and a friend dreamed up a women's club called the Juliets as a way for old friends to do something during their three or four months in Naples other than play endless rounds of golf. (They also wanted to outdo their husbands, who had started a men-only lunch club called the Romeos -- Retired Old Men Eating Out.)
 The Juliets started by limiting membership to current or past residents of Bloomfield Hills or nearby Birmingham. They got a book discussion group going, set up bridge games and organized outings. Soon the phones started ringing and didn't stop. 
 ''We had to cut it off when we hit 100,'' said Ms. Machus, a vocal music teacher who likes to tune the TV to Detroit weather when she's on the treadmill. ''It's hard to find a place that has room for more than a hundred women at lunch.''
 On a balmy Monday morning in November, 13 Juliets managed to squeeze into the narrow new fiction aisle of a local Barnes & Noble to discuss ''The White Russian,'' by Tom Bradby. Half hadn't read the book. But the group's leader, Barbara Denomme, a former kindergarten teacher who is married to Thomas G. Denomme, a former vice chairman of Chrysler, started the discussion anyway. 
 Later, Ms. Machus, Ms. Denomme and a Birmingham Juliet, Janette Engelhardt, went to lunch and did a little shopping -- first at a costume jewelry store that sells $10 watches, then in a boutique in Old Naples where Ms. Engelhardt admired a black net top for $885 and a metallic skirt for $820. ''It's great fun,'' Ms. Engelhardt said of the Juliets club. ''And it's become a tremendous support system.'' 
 Of course, there are exceptions to the migratory rules, especially involving people from New York State. A study this year by Stan Smith, director of the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida in Gainesville, found that of all the people who spend part of each year in Florida, the greatest number were from New York, with Michigan next, followed by Ohio, Pennsylvania, Canada, Illinois, Georgia, Massachusetts, New Jersey and California. Upstate New Yorkers have long gravitated to places like the central eastern coast and the area around Tampa and St. Petersburg. And now that South Florida has filled up, metropolitan New Yorkers are popping up in nearly every place where Florida sand meets the sea. 
 It would take radical change, however, to break the old ties to Miami, and the connection has renewed itself with the emergence of South Beach as a new winter haunt that mirrors the Manhattan and Hollywood scenes. The film and television producer Jerry Bruckheimer just bought a condo in one of the nicest buildings in South Beach, according to Diane Lieberman, broker-owner of South Beach Investment Realty. The rappers Diddy and Lil Wayne, the billionaire businessman Mark Cuban and the Yankees star Alex Rodriguez all have homes nearby.
 After the 1970s, New Yorkers began to move north from Miami to Fort Lauderdale and then to Palm Beach County, often traceable for demographers partly by their Jewish ethnicity. Ira Sheskin, director of University of Miami's Jewish Demography Project, said that since the 1980s and 1990s, Boca Raton, Delray Beach and Boynton Beach had all acquired large Jewish populations of New Yorkers, though many Orthodox Jews buck the trend by staying in Miami. 
 Boynton Beach, a booming city south of Palm Beach, attracts New York's suburbanites. ''This is Long Island plopped down with palm trees,'' said Beverly Sandberg, who is from Huntington, N.Y., and spent 10 winters in Boynton Beach before retiring there recently with her husband, Alan. 
 In nearby Delray Beach, Evelyn Stefansky, who was born in Brooklyn, opened a restaurant, Lox Around the Clock, a year ago with friends from Queens and farther east on Long Island. The bagel dough she has shipped in from Brooklyn pleases her clientele, and she has begun passing out chopped liver on bread to mollify impatient New Yorkers waiting in line. 
 Perhaps nothing solidified New York's identification with Palm Beach County more than the episode of ''Seinfeld'' in which Jerry's parents objected to George's parents' buying a condo in Del Boca Vista, a fictitious Florida development where they lived. In 2000, the real-life Jerry Seinfeld was spotted taking his real-life mother, Betty, out to dinner near her home in Delray Beach, where she settled after raising her family in Massapequa on Long Island. 
 Some Florida clusters come from even farther away. South of Orlando in Kissimmee and Davenport, pubs have popped up along the highways to serve Britons in the area's endless subdivisions. Germans buy in the Fort Myers area, where restaurant menus are printed in German and one town, Cape Coral, has its own Oktoberfest. 
 THE city of Orlando, as opposed to its sprawling suburbs, has a different kind of magnetism. It's become a microcosm of cosmopolitanism with Europeans and Latin Americans joining New Yorkers in the condo population. 
 Perhaps the most surprising development, however, has been the arrival of Southern Californians in Jacksonville. The Florida Times-Union in Jacksonville published a story about the phenomenon last year, and Jim Doyle, a Jacksonville developer, first noticed it a bit earlier. A new house in the Jacksonville area costs about a third of the price of a comparable house in San Diego, he said. ''Our California buyers have been doing back flips at how much more affordable prices are here.'' 
 Bob Hamburg, 52, and his wife Carol, 58, left San Diego in 2004 and bought a four-bedroom, three-bathroom house with a pool in Palm Coast, Fla., an hour south of downtown Jacksonville, for $600,000. ''This house would cost $2 million in San Diego,'' Mr. Hamburg said. Word has gotten out -- two other houses on their block have been bought by Californians.
 ''I can open the windows and hear the ocean,'' Mr. Hamburg said. Air-conditioning takes the edge off the Florida summers, and there are $1 million condos going up nearby, a promising sign. ''Someone told me this is going to be the next Naples,'' he said. 
 Mr. Hamburg just may have stumbled onto a whole new flyway.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SNOWBIRDS OF A FEATHER -- Northerners have developed familiar migratory patterns taking them to their Florida enclaves, including a concentration of Quebecois in Hollywood, above and left. In the Naples area, a sizable cluster of people from the suburbs of Detroit includes members of the Juliets, a women's club started by Nina Machus, center at far left, who is from Bloomfield Hills in Michigan.
NEW YORK SOUTH -- Roberta and Marty Borg, left, formerly of Queens, are part-owners of Lox Around the Clock in Delray Beach, and Beverly and Alan Sandberg, former Long Islanders, have settled in Boynton Beach, which Mrs. Sandberg calls ''Long Island plopped down with palm trees.'' (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Chip Litherland for The New York Times)(pg. F10)Drawing (Drawing by Gary Hallgren)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Travel and Vacations; Housing 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (82%)

PERSON: Julia Lawlor

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



29 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 15957 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Feb. 2 - Feb. 8

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.TheaterApproximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.Previews and Openings'ADRIFT IN MACAO' In previews; opens on Feb 13. Primary Stages presents Christopher Durang and Peter Melnick's new musical sendup of the sexy, shadowy world of film noir (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA: SALVAGE' In previews; opens on Feb. 18. Tom Stoppard's epic trilogy about 19th-century Russian intelligentsia comes to an end with this final installment, which once again stars a vigorous and immense cast, including Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke. 
Jack O'Brien directs (2:30). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.'HOWARD KATZ' Previews start today. Opens on March 2. Roundabout Theater presents a new play by Patrick Marber (''Closer'') about a down-on-his-luck talent agent. Doug Hughes directs. (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.'IN THE HEIGHTS' In previews; opens on Thursday. A new Off Broadway musical about two days in the life of Washington Heights, presented from the vantage point of a corner bodega (2:10). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100.'JOURNEY'S END' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on Feb. 22. This English transfer of R. C. Sherriff's early-20th-century antiwar play stars the Tony winners Boyd Gaines and Jefferson Mays (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.'THE LAST WORD ' In previews; opens on Thursday. This new play by Oren Safdie (''Private Jokes, Public Places'') is about a retired ad executive who wants to be a playwright. Daniel J. Travanti (''Hill Street Blues'') stars (1:30). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.'THE MADRAS HOUSE' In previews; opens on Feb. 15. Yet another modern-sounding play by Harley Granville Barker (''Waste'') comes out of the woodwork: a 1909 drama about business battles, family values and sex (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231.'MARY ROSE' In previews; opens on Feb. 20. Although it can sometimes seem otherwise, J. M. Barrie wrote stories besides ''Peter Pan,'' including this one about a girl who might be a ghost. Tina Landau directs (1:45). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303.'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' In previews; opens on Sunday. F. Murray Abraham plays Shylock in this Theater for a New Audience production. Darko Tresnjak directs (2:20). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200.'A VERY COMMON PROCEDURE' In previews; opens on Feb. 14. Michael Greif (''Rent'') directs MCC Theater's new play about a married woman who has an affair with a doctor (1:20). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200.Broadway'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' The exhilarating first two installments of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about 19th-century Russian intellectuals dreaming of revolution, these productions pulse with the dizzy, spring-green arrogance and anxiety of a new generation moving as fast as it can toward the future. Jack O'Brien directs a fresh, vigorous and immense cast that includes Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' The comedy of manners, a form widely believed to be extinct in the American theater, has actually resurfaced on Broadway with all its vital signs intact in Douglas Carter Beane's breezy but trenchant satire about truth and illusion, Hollywood style. With the wonderful Julie White as the movie agent you hate to love (but just can't help it) (2:00). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) 'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) * 'TRANSLATIONS' The estimable Irish director Garry Hynes (a Tony winner for Martin McDonagh's ''Beauty Queen of Leenane'') has assembled an ensemble of an extraordinarily high caliber and consistency for the third major New York production of Brian Friel's 1980 play. Set in rural Ireland in 1833, as the local tongue is being supplanted by the language of the English occupying forces, the play explores the seriocomic truth that language can divide as easily as it unites, and can never hope to translate the rich music in our souls with the delicacy we yearn for. A top-flight Broadway revival (2:15). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore)'DAI (ENOUGH)' Iris Bahr's unnerving one-woman show doesn't have much to add to the Middle East debate, but it sure leaves a lasting impression. Ms. Bahr plays an assortment of characters who have the misfortune of being in a Tel Aviv cafe that is about to be visited by the havoc common to such establishments. The attack is rendered in jarring fashion, repeatedly; you watch the play on pins and needles, waiting for the next burst. Gimmicky? Sure. But viscerally effective (1:40). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 253-9983. (Neil Genzlinger) 'DUTCHMAN' A revival of the poet Amiri Baraka's screed on race and American values, 43 years after its Greenwich Village debut, aims for all the fire and might of a Malcolm X speech but none of the rhetorical elegance. It shouts so loudly that you can't hear a thing (1:00). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, between Barrow and Bedford Streets, West Village (212) 239-6200. (Ginia Bellafante)'ESTIMATED TIME OF ARRIVAL' Five vignettes about finding love and keeping it as immature in attitude as they are thin in substance. The filmmaker Anthony Minghella, whose offering here is a short play called ''Hang Up,'' provides the silliest (1:30). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, (212) 868-4444. (Bellafante) 'EVIL DEAD: THE MUSICAL' This likable horror comedy based on Sam Raimi's gory movies wants to be the next ''Rocky Horror Show.'' To that end, it offers deadpan lyrics, self-referential humor and geysers of stage blood (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Anita Gates)'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'THE FEVER' Wallace Shawn performs his provocative monologue about a guilt-riddled bourgeois everyman sweating his way through a moral crisis. The rich, often hypnotic writing draws us into his tortured mindscape, as he shifts between shame over his sense of entitlement and reasoned arguments that sacrifice is unnecessary and pointless. Meanwhile, in the third world, the violence and poverty continue unabated (1:30). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)'FRANK'S HOME' Peter Weller plays Frank Lloyd Wright in Richard Nelson's dreary bio-drama, which lingers lovingly on its subject's feet of clay while paying arid lip service to his genius (1:45). Playwrights Horizons Mainstage, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 719-4200. (Isherwood) 'THE GREAT DIVORCE' The Magis Theater Company makes a creditable effort to explore spiritual matters in this adaptation of C. S. Lewis's story about a bus trip through the afterlife. In well-acted vignettes, characters are led to examine their lives and ruling loves. It's often intriguing, and rarely preachy (1:30). Salvation Army Theater, 315 West 47th Street, (212) 868-4444. (Genzlinger) 'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men and two women perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Gates)'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'NO GREAT SOCIETY' The brainy experimentalists of Elevator Repair Service provide a madcap and almost dreamlike re-enactment of a 1968 episode of William F. Buckley's ''Firing Line,'' which features Mr. Buckley squaring off with Jack Kerouac (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Genzlinger)'THE SCENE' Theresa Rebeck's latest is a sharp-witted, sharp-elbowed comedy about the savage economies of sex and show business in Manhattan. Tony Shalhoub plays an out-of-work actor, Charlie, happily married -- but not really -- to Patricia Heaton's frazzled chat show booker. Enter the femme fatale Clea, played by the gifted Anna Camp, and goodbye, Charlie (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Isherwood) * 'TOYS IN THE ATTIC' Austin Pendleton's fine revival of Lillian Hellman's last play faithfully attacks the corrosive attachments of family. What good is a family, and thus a society, the play implicitly asks, that can only look in the mirror? (2:30) Pearl Theater, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Bellafante)'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban) 'VICTORIA MARTIN: MATH TEAM QUEEN' Must all stage teenagers speak in that exaggerated surfer-dude style in which ''awesome'' and ''totally'' make up about 50 percent of any conversation? Yes, apparently they must, from the evidence presented in this thin comedy, which is about a high school girl who finds herself on the all-male math team. The playwright, Kathryn Walat, seems to have been trying to grab the coattails of a certain spelling-bee-related show. She missed (2:00). The Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger)* 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) Off Off Broadway'AT LEAST IT'S PINK' Bridget Everett and her big, bad attitude co-star in this mini-musical about sex and unsatisfying jobs in the city. Directed by Michael Patrick King (of ''Sex and the City,'' as it happens), who is also the co-author, and with songs written by Ms. Everett and Kenny Mellman, the piano-playing half of Kiki & Herb. Raucous and rude, it's a bit like a one-woman episode of ''Jerry Springer'' (1:20). Ars Nova, , 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Isherwood) 'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) Long-Running Shows'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance'AS YET THOU ART YOUNG AND RASH' An abstract collage of shards of feeling built out of Euripides' ''Suppliant Women,'' this meditation on grief and the death of children in senseless war offers plenty of parallels to current society without doing anything so obvious as explicitly referring to them. The five-member cast, led by three beautiful middle-aged women, is strong; the director, David Herskovits, has helped them shape an evocative piece that might be too nonliteral for some tastes, but is both moving and distinctive (1:10). The Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101; closes tomorrow. (Anne Midgette) * 'THE DIRTY TALK' Kevin Cristaldi and Sidney Williams are just great in this two-hander by Michael Puzzo about strangers stranded in a hunting cabin. How they came to be there is hilariously doled out by Mr. Puzzo, along with some thoughts about identity, the Internet and the liar in all of us. Padraic Lillis, the director, has the two actors in perfect sync (1:20). Center Stage, 48 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger) 'MUST DON'T WHIP 'UM' The performance artist Cynthia Hopkins nimbly plays both a bygone '70s rock singer and the daughter she left behind on her aimless spiritual quest. Ms. Hopkins's distinctive singing voice, accompanied by her lively band Gloria Deluxe, makes the pleasures of the evening all the better (1:20). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779; closes on Sunday. (Bellafante) 'THE WOMEN OF TRACHIS' In Kate Ryan's wonderfully perceptive adaptation, Sophocles' rarely produced tragedy about the death of the hero Heracles and his wife, Deianira, has terrific contemporary traction. Alice Reagan's superbly cast and infectiously energetic production is fun, intelligent and eminently worth seeing. (1:00). The Ohio Theater, 66 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 352-3101; closes tomorrow. (Jonathan Kalb)MoviesRatings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.'ALPHA DOG' (R, 117 minutes) Based on a true Southern California crime, Nick Cassavetes's entertaining exploitation flick features a lot of attractive, talented young actors shimmying across the screen while embodying the collective parental nightmare. Do you know where your children are? Well, in this film they're getting busy, chilling out, smoking blunts and chugging coolers faster than a toothless wino. Oh, and committing murder. (Manohla Dargis) 'ARTHUR AND THE INVISIBLES' (PG, 94 minutes) Luc Besson serves up a hybrid of live actors and computer-generated figures to tell a not-endearing-enough story about a boy (Freddie Highmore) who shrinks to microscopic size to find some gems and his missing grandfather. Lots of famous names (Madonna, Robert De Niro, David Bowie, Snoop Dogg) lend their voices to the computerized part of the movie, but only briefly near the end does everything click. (Neil Genzlinger)'BABEL' (R, 143 minutes, in English, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, Arabic and sign language) This hugely ambitious movie tells four loosely linked, not quite simultaneous stories set on three different continents, with dialogue in several languages. The themes, to the extent they are decipherable, include loss, fate and the terrible consequences of miscommunication. Written by Guillermo Arriaga and directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, the movie is an intellectual muddle but a visceral tour de force, and the power of the filmmaking almost overcomes the fuzziness of the ideas. Almost. (A. O. Scott) 'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn misery into entertainment. (Dargis) 'BREAKING AND ENTERING' (R, 119 minutes) This high-toned, feel-bad exercise in liberal guilt comes from Anthony Minghella, who brings the same earnest humorlessness to present-day London that he has brought to the historical past. Jude Law is an architect; Juliette Binoche is a Bosnian seamstress; and Vera Farmiga provides a glimmer of wit and liveliness as a Russian prostitute who shows up to drink coffee, show her underwear and discuss the themes of the movie. (Scott) 'CATCH AND RELEASE' (PG-13, 124 minutes ) Jennifer Garner is a young woman in Boulder, Colo., coping with the sudden death of her fiance, who she discovers had another, secret life. Although there are signs that the first-time director Susannah Grant (screenwriter of ''Erin Brockovich'') was reaching for something more layered than a formulaic ''chick flick,'' the story never achieves basic credibility. At least its affection for its characters doesn't seem cynical. (Stephen Holden) * 'CHILDREN OF MEN' (R, 100 minutes) The end is nigh in this superbly directed political thriller by Alfonso Cuaron about a nervously plausible future. Based on the P. D. James book, the film stars an excellent Clive Owen and features equally sterling support from the actors Michael Caine, Danny Huston and Chiwetel Ejiofior, among others, as well as the great cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki. (Dargis) * 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis) 'DREAMGIRLS' (PG-13, 131 minutes) The Broadway musical arrives on the screen, capably directed by Bill Condon, ardently acted and sung by Jamie Foxx, Eddie Murphy, Beyonce Knowles and (especially) Jennifer Hudson, but undone by mediocre and anachronistic songs. (Scott)'EPIC MOVIE' (PG-13, 86 minutes) A cheap, dumb parody of expensive, dumb movies. (Scott)* 'GOD GREW TIRED OF US' (PG, 90 minutes) This sober, uplifting documentary, which won two major awards at last year's Sundance Film Festival, follows the resettlement in the United States of three Sudanese young men uprooted as children by the civil war. Handsomely photographed, and inspirational but not cloyingly so, it is the rare contemporary documentary that doesn't leave a residue of cynicism and outrage. (Holden) 'THE ITALIAN' (PG-13, 99 minutes, in Russian) This dark fairy tale from Russia pulls you into a richly atmospheric, persuasively inhabited world teeming with young foundlings and pathos, and upended by one remarkable little boy. (Dargis)'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott) * 'Little Miss Sunshine' (R, 101 minutes) A bittersweet comedy of dysfunction that takes place at the terminus of the American dream. The excellent cast includes Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano and that national treasure, Alan Arkin. (Dargis)* 'MAFIOSO' (No rating, 99 minutes, in Italian) This 1962 film, revived by Rialto Pictures, is a rambunctious, astonishing blend of farce, thriller and social satire. The director, Alberto Lattuada, follows an up-and-coming Fiat manager (Alberto Sordi) on a visit from Milan to his native village in Sicily. His homecoming is full of surprises -- painful for him, altogether delightful for the audience. (Scott) 'NOTES ON A SCANDAL' (R, 92 minutes) Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett play a misogynistic game of cat and mouse from which no one emerges unscathed, including the audience. Adapted by Patrick Marber from a novel by Zoe Heller and directed by Richard Eyre. (Dargis) * 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil-War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott) 'THE PAINTED VEIL' (PG-13, 125 minutes) Nicely directed by John Curran, this version of the W. Somerset Maugham novel draws you in by turning a distaff bildungsroman into a fine romance with Naomi Watts and Edward Norton. (Dargis)'PRIMEVAL' (R, 94 minutes) A giant crocodile named Gustave terrorizes Western journalists in war-torn Burundi. Not as much fun as it might have been, but not as terrible either. (Scott) 'THE PURSUIT OF HAPPYNESS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) How you respond to this fairy tale in realist drag may depend on whether you find Will Smith's performances so overwhelmingly winning that you buy the idea that poverty is a function of bad luck and bad choices, and success the result of heroic toil and dreams. (Dargis) * 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis) * 'REGULAR LOVERS' (No rating, 175 minutes, in French) Philippe Garrel's tender portrait of late-1960s French youth stars the filmmaker's son, Louis Garrel, as a 20-year-old Parisian struggling through the fires of revolutionary promise and its smoldering remains. Magnificent. (Dargis) 'SCREAMERS' (R, 89 minutes, in English and Armenian) Carla Garapedian's invigorating documentary takes as its jumping-off point the 1915 massacre of Armenian Christians by the Ottoman Empire of Turkey. Focusing on the Armenian-American band System of a Down and its attempts to raise awareness about global suffering, the director traces the historical path of genocide in a film that's part rockumentary, part howl of outrage. (Jeannette Catsoulis)'SERAPHIM FALLS' (R, 111 minutes) Archetypes and symbols solemnly parade through ''Seraphim Falls,'' a handsome, old-fashioned western of few words and heavy meanings that unfolds with the sanctimonious grandeur of a Biblical allegory. In this drama of pursuit, revenge and forgiveness, set in 1868, Pierce Brosnan and Liam Neeson are soldiers who fought on opposite sides of the Civil War and are now engaged in a life-and-death chase that takes them from the Ruby Mountains of Nevada to a final showdown in the desert. (Holden)'SMOKIN' ACES' (R, 107 minutes) Absolute garbage. (Scott)'STOMP THE YARD' (PG-13, 109 minutes) Brotherhood is powerful in this sometimes compelling, sometimes complacent movie about stepping and African-American fraternity life at an Atlanta institution called Truth University. D J (Columbus Short), a street-style dancer, needs to find his place in a university ruled by Gammas and Thetas and stepping. (Rachel Saltz)'TEARS OF THE BLACK TIGER' (No rating, 113 minutes, in Thai) A western weepie from Thailand, filmed in garish color. In spite of the relentless genre pastiche, it has a charming sincerity. (Scott)'2 or 3 THINGS I KNOW ABOUT HIM' (No rating, 85 minutes, in German and Slovak) In this probing documentary, Malte Ludin inquires into the history of his own family: a ''typical German story,'' including a Nazi father executed for war crimes and siblings in various forms of denial. An ambiguous, disturbing portrait emerges of several generations contending with the legacy of the recent German past. (Scott)'VENUS' (R, 91 minutes) A modest, diverting, touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest -- avuncular and also erotic -- of an aging actor, played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole. (Scott) * 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott) Film SeriesTHE CINEMA OF DONALD CAMMELL (Tonight through Sunday) Best known for his 1970 gender-bending gangster film, ''Performance'' (which he co-directed with Nicolas Roeg), Donald Cammell moved back and forth between commercial filmmaking and the avant-garde with subversive ease. A retrospective of his exceedingly strange work starts tonight at the Walter Reade with a double bill of ''Performance'' (starring Mick Jagger and James Fox) and the reconstructed director's cut of Cammell's final feature, the 1995 ''Wild Side.'' A documentary study of Cammel, ''The Ultlimate Performance,'' directed by Kevin Macdonald and Chris Rodley, will be screened on Sunday and Monday, accompanied by the 14-minute short ''The Argument,'' Cammell's last completed work. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT EXPANDED: MOMA'S ANNUAL FESTIVAL OF NONFICTION FILM (Tonight through Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art's yearly survey of documentary film settles in for a monthlong run with tonight's New York premiere of ''Forever,'' Heddy Honigmann's study of the Paris cemetery Pere-Lachaise, and the United States premiere of Avinash Deshpande's ''Great Indian School Show,'' about the headmaster of a boarding school in India who maintains discipline with the help of 85 video cameras installed in the classrooms. (Through March 2.) Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr) ENNIO MORRICONE In connection with an appearance at Radio City by this legendary Italian composer of movie music, two local institutions are holding retrospectives of films that he worked on. A series of six features at MoMA continues tonight with a screening of ''The Mission'' (1986), directed by Roland Joffe, and ends on Wednesday with Sergio Leone's ''Once Upon a Time in America'' (1984). A more extensive series at Film Forum begins tonight with a new 35-millimeter print of Elio Petri's politically charged 1970 thriller, ''Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion,'' and continues through the week with rarities like Mario Bava's ''Danger! Diabolik'' (1967) on Tuesday, and Sergio Corbucci's spaghetti western ''Navajo Joe,'' starring Burt Reynolds, on Wednesday. Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $10.50. (Kehr) 'MY DINNER WITH ANDRE' and 'SHAFT' (Thursday) A double feature to remember, as MoMA brings back two of the most popular films in the museum's recent ''Made in NY'' program, Louis Malle's 1981 two-handed philosophical comedy, ''My Dinner With Andre,'' starring Wallace Shawn and Andre Gregory, and Gordon Parks's urban thriller ''Shaft'' (1971), with Richard Roundtree as a Harlem detective. Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr) PopFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.AVENGERS (Tomorrow) A seminal 1970s punk band, the Avengers, from San Francisco, had a brief life but a lasting influence. Over razor-blade guitars, Penelope Houston howled against authority (''Ask not what you can do for your country/What's your country been doing to you?'') and demonstrated to countless young women the liberating power of anger and insolence. This show at the Bowery Ballroom, with Ms. Houston and the original Avengers guitarist, Greg Ingraham, is the only scheduled United States appearance on its latest reunion tour. At 9 p.m., 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $13 in advance, $15 at the door. (Ben Sisario)AWESOME COLOR (Tomorrow) This band's MySpace page gives its location as Bushwick, Brooklyn, ''via southeastern Michigan,'' a pretty accurate geographical summary of its gruff, retro garage-blues: self-consciously noisy in a way only New York rock can be, yet heavily indebted to the Stooges and the MC5. With the Trophy Wives and Dirty Faces. At 8 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036, cake-shop.com; $7. (Sisario)* DAVID BYRNE (Tonight through Sunday) He may have set a still unsurpassed standard with Talking Heads for art-pop that is as arty as it is truly poppy, but Mr. Byrne's influence reaches much wider than the rock world, into theater, film and, especially, world music. (He also has the best blog of any rock star, at davidbyrne.com.) For his Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall he acts as both performer and host. Tonight he presents a multigenerational experimental-folk bill with Devendra Banhart, Vashti Bunyan, Cibelle, Adem, CocoRosie and Vetiver. Tomorrow Mr. Byrne plays songs from ''Here Lies Love,'' his new multimedia cycle about Imelda Marcos. And Sunday is an intriguing program exploring music built around a single note, featuring the ensemble Alarm Will Sound, the Persian-American singer Haale and the French singer Camille, whose ingenious album ''Le Fil'' is a series of vocal variations linked by a constant hummed tone (a B). Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Carnegie Hall; Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $21 to $70. (Sisario) * BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday and Monday) This ageless queen of genteel piano bar jazz plays everything from Sondheim to Monk with grace and authority. She sings too. Her rendition of ''Old Friends,'' from ''Merrily We Roll Along,'' will bring tears to your eyes. Sunday at 2 p.m., Monday at 8 p.m., Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $58 on Sunday, with brunch at noon; $40 on Monday, with a $40 dinner or a $20 minimum. (Stephen Holden)CAT POWER (Sunday and Monday) For her most recent album, ''The Greatest'' (Matador), Chan Marshall, the superbly rueful singer known as Cat Power, recorded with a group of veteran Memphis soul players, yielding some of the most stirring -- and happiest -- music of her career. Performing solo, she is spellbindingly intense and mercurial. At 7 p.m., Hiro Ballroom at the Maritime Hotel, 371 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 260-4700, bowerypresents.com; $25 (sold out on Sunday). (Sisario)BO DIDDLEY (Wednesday) When Bo Diddley plays his namesake beat and growls the metaphysical boasts of ''Who Do You Love?,'' it's easy to hear the fire and syncopation that made him a rock pioneer. Behind them is a profound education in the blues. At 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club & Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144, bbkingblues.com; $32.50 in advance, $35 at the door. (Jon Pareles)EGYPTIAN LOVER (Tonight) One of the principals of the early Los Angeles hip-hop scene, Greg Broussard, a k a the Egyptian Lover, sticks to the verities of mid-1980s electro-funk: robotic beats straight out of the Kraftwerk playbook, crowd-pleasing turntable tricks and leering, growled vocals borrowed from Prince and Rick James. At 10, Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $8. (Sisario) RICHIE HAVENS (Tonight) An unswerving 1960s holdout, Mr. Havens is still strumming his guitar with untrammeled momentum, still singing in his grainy baritone and still bringing earnest drama out of protests and stubborn optimism. At 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $45. (Pareles)* ESSIE JAIN (Wednesday) A British singer and songwriter who lives in Brooklyn, Ms. Jain builds stark miniatures out of a few light strums of guitar and her haunting alto. On her captivating new album, ''We Made This Ourselves'' (Ba Da Bing), her voice is multitracked in precise harmonies that can be warm or ghostly. With Mike Wexler and Ramona Cordova. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; $8. (Sisario)TOBY KEITH (Tonight) A multimillion-selling country star whose ever-present smirk is framed by some manicured stubble and a cowboy hat, Mr. Keith excels equally in salt-of-the-earth patriotic proclamations (''The American Soldier'') and salt-of-the-earth Saturday-night proclamations (''Get Drunk and Be Somebody''). With Miranda Lambert, who was robbed of a victory on ''Nashville Star'' a few years ago but triumphed with a hit album, ''Kerosene.'' At 7:30, Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $27 to $68. (Sisario)KIKI AND HERB (Sunday) A few years ago Kiki and Herb, the world's most brilliantly perverse cabaret duo, played their farewell show at Carnegie Hall. Then came a run on Broadway. And some late-night gigs at Joe's Pub. And the annual, inimitable Christmas show. (Highlight: a medley of ''Smells Like Teen Spirit'' and ''Frosty the Snowman.'') Kiki and Herb can't stay away from the stage, and New York is the better for it. Their Joe's Pub series continues with a Super Bowl special. At 9:30 p.m., 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario)* LINCOLN CENTER'S AMERICAN SONGBOOK (Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) Now in its ninth season, this series has greatly expanded from its origins as a home for the midcentury pantheon of Harold Arlen, Richard Rodgers and the like. Tonight is a tribute to the songwriters Alan and Marilyn Bergman (''You Don't Bring Me Flowers,'' ''The Windmills of Your Mind'') with Brian Stokes Mitchell, Sandy Stewart, Melissa Errico, Tyne Daly, Lillias White and somebody named Tony Bennett. Tomorrow John Pizzarelli offers the New York premiere of his show ''Dear Mr. Sinatra.'' Wednesday features the Cherryholmes bluegrass family -- that's Mom, Dad and four kids -- and on Thursday is Calexico, a band from Tucson that began on the avant-garde edge of indie-rock but has eagerly absorbed country, surf guitar, mariachi and fado. Tonight and Wednesday night at 8:30, tomorrow at 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., and Thursday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $80. (Sisario)* MAUDE MAGGART (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday nights) In her must-see cabaret show, ''Good Girl/Bad Girl,'' this 31-year-old singer, a knockout in a red dress, uses an astutely chosen selection of songs to explore conflicting female sexual stereotypes from the perspective of a young woman who understands but rejects abject surrender to a man. High point: Joan Baez's ''Love Song to a Stranger.'' At 9, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11:30, Oak Room at the Al gonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $60 cover; $25 minimum, with $65 dinner required for the early shows tonight and tomorrow night. (Holden) JAMES McMURTRY, DAVE ALVIN (Tonight) Mr. McMurtry packs a lot of story into his low-key songs: tales of loners and losers adrift in wide-open spaces. His voice is deadpan, but his characters survive grand struggles. In the Blasters, in X and on his own, Mr. Alvin has written and sung about outcasts, lovers and criminals, some of the people who share the road with an itinerant musician. He sets his narratives in country and rockabilly tunes that strive for classic American simplicity, though his words detail an uncertain moral landscape. At 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $22. (Pareles)RITA MORENO (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday nights) If, at 75, you look as fresh and unbowed as Rita Moreno, you may as well flaunt your age, which is what Ms. Moreno does with zest and humor in ''Little Tributes,'' her breezy new cabaret act. The show is a smooth, comfortable ride with a performer who knows who she is. At 8:45, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $70 tonight and tomorrow ($50 at the bar); $65 Tuesday through Thursday ($40 at the bar). (Holden) * ENNIO MORRICONE (Tomorrow) This colossus of film music makes an inexplicably late American debut with this concert, conducting a 200-piece orchestra and chorus in his hits. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $60 to $200. (Sisario)JONATHAN RICHMAN (Tonight through Sunday night) No rock star delivers intimacy like Mr. Richman, the eternally youthful and eternally nebbishy granddaddy of New Wave and indie rock. He fell in love with the acoustic guitar decades ago, and backed up by the tiniest of bands -- a drummer playing a snare and little more -- he sings of simple pleasures lost and found with tiptoe dynamics. He finishes a four-night stand, kicking off the Knitting Factory's 20th-anniversary celebration. At 8, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $20 in advance, $23 at the door. (Sisario) MARTIN SEXTON (Tuesday) This singer and songwriter can groan like an alternative rocker, slide like a soul man or leap up to a pearly falsetto. Singing about restlessness and love while he picks syncopations on his guitar, Mr. Sexton can turn an ordinary song into a jazzy showcase, and a good one into a transmission from the heart. At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Pareles)ROD STEWART (Thursday) His four Great American Songbook albums may not represent the most distinguished readings of those songs -- ditto his Bob Seger and Creedence Clearwater Revival on the recent ''Still the Same Great Rock Classics of Our Time'' (J) -- but when Rod Stewart lets go of his smugness, that whisky tenor of his can be a powerful interpretive instrument. Doesn't happen often, though. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $55 to $129.50. (Sisario)* JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (Wednesday) Like Michael Jackson or Prince, Mr. Timberlake is the kind of pop star who makes it all look easy. But even more endearing, the guy can truly make fun of himself: his brilliant ''Saturday Night Live'' skit with Andy Samberg, broadcast in bleeped form and uncensored on the Internet, was the equivalent of a chummy high-five with his audience. Opening the show is Pink, the spark plug who once bragged of getting the party started and now ridicules ''stupid girls'' who torture themselves for men. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; sold out. (Sisario)VIEUX FARKA TOURE (Thursday) Who knew that Ali Farka Toure, the Malian guitar sage who died a year ago, had a son ready to take on the family legacy? Vieux Farka Toure, 25, began playing guitar in secret because his father had wanted him to become a soldier; Dad eventually relented and entrusted his son's education to a friend, the visionary kora player Toumani Diabate. Mr. Toure's self-titled first album, to be released this month by World Village, is an impressive reflection of the spare, trancelike blues of his father, and here he makes his New York debut. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15. (Sisario)JazzFull reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.ERIC ALEXANDER QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) The tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander favors the smart, surging hard bop of the 1950s and '60s. His quartet includes the veteran pianist Harold Mabern, as well as the experienced rhythm team of John Webber on bass and Joe Farnsworth on drums. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Nate Chinen)* STEFANO BOLLANI (Tuesday) Mr. Bollani, a charismatic Italian pianist, has a new album, ''Piano Solo'' (ECM), that ranges in tone from pensive to puckish; it's a breadth of temperament he is likely to cover here as well. At 8 p.m., Teatro of the Italian Academy, at Columbia University, 1161 Amsterdam Avenue, at 118th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-1623, or rw2115@columbia.edu (e-mail) for reservations; $20; $10 for students. (Chinen)STEVE CARDENAS TRIO (Sunday) Steve Cardenas, a guitarist with a flexible modern style, engages with an established and accomplished rhythm team: Ben Allison on bass and Matt Wilson on drums. At 9:30 and 10:45 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)LARRY CORYELL, VICTOR BAILEY AND LENNY WHITE (Tonight through Sunday night) An all-star fusion trio with a potent formula: guitar heroism (courtesy of Mr. Coryell) plus bass wizardry (Mr. Bailey) plus percussive intensity (Mr. White) equals surging power. At 8:30 and 10:30, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)PETER EVANS (Sunday and Tuesday) Mr. Evans, an intense and focused trumpeter, performs in two experimental ensembles: Mostly Other People Do the Killing, a collaborative effort with the bassist Moppa Elliott, the saxophonist Jon Irabagon and the drummer Kevin Shea; and his own quartet with Mr. Shea, the guitarist Brandon Seabrook and the bassist Tom Blancarte. Sunday at 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. Tuesday at 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)JOHN FEDCHOCK NEW YORK BIG BAND (Tuesday) The trombonist and arranger John Fedchock has led this hard-charging group for the better part of two decades. The band, which has just released its fourth album on the Reservoir label, includes veteran players like the saxophonist Scott Robinson, the trumpeter Tony Kadleck and the trombonist Clark Gayton. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)JOE FIEDLER TRIO (Tonight) On his recent album ''Joe Fiedler Trio Plays the Music of Albert Mangelsdorff'' (Clean Feed), Mr. Fiedler offers a stark but involving tribute to one of his trombone heroes; his trio here includes John Hebert on bass and Owen Howard on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a $6 minimum. (Chinen)GOLD SOUNDS (Tuesday through Thursday) Pavement, the quintessential low-fi indie-rock band, gets a groove makeover from the saxophonist James Carter, the pianist Cyrus Chestnut, the bassist Reginald Veal and the drummer Ali Jackson. (Through Feb. 11.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; Wednesday at 7:30 is sold out; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)GIL GOLDSTEIN (Tonight) Mr. Goldstein is known for his inventive and efficient arranging, which has recently assisted projects such as SFJazz Collective. Here he pares down for a solo recital at Fazioli Salon, a series at the Klavierhaus piano workshop. At 8, Klavierhaus, 211 West 58th Street, Midtown, (212) 245-4535, pianoculture.com; $25. (Chinen)DONALD HARRISON QUARTET/MULGREW MILLER TRIO (Tonight through Sunday night) Two satisfying bands, each with an assertive and soulful guide: Donald Harrison, an alto saxophonist equally steeped in bebop and New Orleans groove, and Mulgrew Miller, a modern pianist with roots in Mississippi blues. At 8 and 10:30, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592 bluenote.net; cover, $25 at tables, $15 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)EDDIE HENDERSON QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) The trumpeter Eddie Henderson digs into an assertive hard-bop mode with a band well equipped for the challenge: David Kikoski, a pianist; Doug Weiss, a bassist; and Billy Hart, a drummer. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)ARI HOENIG (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Hoenig, an irrepressibly kinetic drummer, celebrates the release of ''Inversations'' (Dreyfus), an album that establishes his adroitness as a composer while underscoring his rapport with the pianist Jean-Michel Pilc. At 10, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, fatcatjazz.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)* MUSIC OF THE SPIRIT 2007 (Tomorrow) The Africana Studies Committee of Long Island University and the Central Brooklyn Jazz Consortium have teamed up to present this concert, which wraps up a conference on the African Diaspora. In addition to the trumpeter Ahmed Abdullah, leading his band Ebonic Tones, the program will feature the Haitian singer Emeline Michel; the Bahia Allstars; an Afrobeat ensemble led by the drummer Jojo Kuo; and an Afro-Latin quartet led by the pianist Arturo O'Farrill. At 7 p.m., Kumble Theater for the Performing Arts, Long Island University, Flatbush Avenue and DeKalb Avenue, Brooklyn, (718) 488-1624, www.kumbletheater.org; $35, sudents and seniors $15 (Chinen)NEW LANGUAGES FESTIVAL (Tomorrow night) Advancing an ideal of cross-fertilization, this series is organized partly by the alto saxophonist Aaron Ali Shaikh, who performs tomorrow with the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Randy Peterson. An earlier set will feature Two Rivers, led by the trumpeter and santoor player Amir ElSaffar and featuring Zaafer Tawil on oud, Rudresh Mahanthappa on saxophone and Nasheet Waits on drums, among others. At 8:30 and 10, Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, between Havemeyer and Marcy Streets, Williamsburg, (646) 644-2766, newlanguages.org; $10. (Chinen)GRETCHEN PARLATO (Tonight and Monday night) Ms. Parlato is a cosmopolitan singer with sharp musical instincts, as she demonstrates with the help of Aaron Parks, keyboardist; Alan Hampton, bassist; and Kendrick Scott, drummer. Tonight at 6, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover. Monday at 8 and 10:30, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $10 at tables, $5 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)THE PAVONE SHOW PART II (Sunday) Jessica Pavone, a violinist and violist with an increasingly prominent profile in avant-garde circles, introduces a pair of compositions, ''Meridian'' and ''The Darkest Hour,'' for a small chamber ensemble. She also performs a set with the Pavones, a group in which she plays bass guitar with cohorts like the guitarist Mary Halvorson and the saxophonist Matt Bauder. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)MARIO PAVONE (Wednesday) Mr. Pavone, a bassist and composer, leads a version of the Pavones on his fine recent album, ''Deez to Blues'' (Playscape): Steven Bernstein on trumpet, Charles Burnham on violin, Marcus Rojas on tuba and Michael Sarin on drums. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10 a set. (Chinen)ERIC REED Quintet (Tuesday through Thursday) The pianist Eric Reed applies his trademark sophistication to the sound of a quintet featuring Seamus Blake and Stacey Dillard on saxophones, Gerald Cannon on bass and Willie Jones III on drums. (Through Feb. 11.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)MARC RIBOT, MARY HALVORSON AND CHES SMITH (Wednesday) Ms. Halvorson, who programmed this month's performance calendar at the Stone, invites a prominent fellow guitarist, Mr. Ribot, to join her in an exploratory exchange. Mr. Smith, a rock-oriented drummer, adds fuel to the fire. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)HERLIN RILEY AND FRIENDS (Tonight through Sunday night) Few contemporary jazz drummers groove as naturally as Mr. Riley, who will preside over a quartet of other musicians with ties to Wynton Marsalis: the tenor saxophonist and clarinetist Victor Goines, the pianist Eric Reed and the bassist Reginald Veal. At 7:30 and 9:30, with 11:30 sets tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)NED ROTHENBERG'S SYNC (Thursday) Ned Rothenberg is a saxophonist, clarinetist, flutist and composer with a penchant for insistent frictions. This engagement marks the release of ''Inner Diaspora'' (Tzadik), featuring Jerome Harris on bass and guitar, Samir Chatterjee on percussion, Erik Friedlander on cello and Mark Feldman on violin. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $12. (Chinen)BRAD SHEPIK (Tomorrow) On his upcoming album, ''Places You Go'' (Songlines), this guitarist leads a Hammond B-3 organ trio with Gary Versace on organ and Tom Rainey on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Center for Improvisational Music, 295 Douglass Street, between Third and Fourth Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (212) 631-5882, schoolforimprov.org; cover, $12. (Chinen)* SCUlPTURED SOUNDS MUSIC FESTIVAL (Sunday) The bassist Reggie Workman presides over this series with his own ensemble, featuring vocals by Amiri Baraka (spoken) and Leena Conquist (mostly sung). Opening the festivities are two sturdy trios: Brew, featuring Miya Masaoka on koto, Mr. Workman on bass and Gerry Hemingway on drums; and BassDrumBone, with Mr. Hemingway, the bassist Mark Helias and the trombonist Ray Anderson. At 7 p.m., Saint Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street, (212) 642-5277; suggested donation, $20. (Chinen)* JOHN TCHICAI QUINTET (Wednesday and Thursday) The Danish saxophonist and clarinetist John Tchicai developed a reputation for fiery exertions during the first wave of free jazz, but ''Good Night Songs'' (Boxholder), a recent album with the saxophonist Charlie Kohlhase and the guitarist Garrison Fewell, often conveys a tender intimacy. For this engagement, the bassist Cecil McBee and the drummer Billy Hart provide an earthy foundation. (Through Feb. 10.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)YOSVANY TERRY (Thursday) Mr. Terry, a saxophonist and percussionist, chases post-bop ideals without abandoning the pull of his native Cuba. His group here includes Yunior Terry, his brother, on bass; Osmany Paredes on piano; and Pedro Martinez, Marvin Diz and Mauricio in various percussive roles. (Through Feb. 10.) At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)* CHARLES TOLLIVER BIG BAND (Tonight and tomorrow night) The trumpeter Charles Tolliver recently ended a long, dry spell with this band, an upgraded edition of his hard-driving orchestra of the 1970s. This engagement celebrates the release of a strong new album, ''With Love'' (Blue Note), that seals Mr. Tolliver's comeback with a kiss. At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Chinen)KEVIN UEHLINGER QUARTET (Tomorrow) Biochemistry and the I Ching are hardly common themes in jazz, but Kevin Uehlinger, a keyboardist, has used aspects of both in his compositional framework. He has also used musicians independent enough to strain against those constrictions: the trumpeter Sam Hoyt, the bassist Keith Witty and the drummer Harris Eisenstadt. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)MATT WILSON'S ARTS AND CRAFTS (Wednesday and Thursday) ''The Scenic Route'' (Palmetto) is the latest appealing album by this band, led by the drummer Matt Wilson and featuring the trumpeter Terell Stafford, the pianist and organist Gary Versace and the bassist Dennis Irwin. (Through Feb. 11.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)ClassicalFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.
 Opera'LA BOHEME' (Tomorrow) The tenor Marcello Giordani did not sing flawlessly when he took over the role of Rodolfo recently in the Metropolitan Opera's revival of its crowd-pleasing Franco Zeffirelli production of Puccini's ''Boheme.'' But he may be the best we have right now in the lyric, yet full-bodied, Puccini and Verdi tenor roles, and he can certainly bring rich sound and stylistic elegance to Rodolfo's ardent vocal lines. Cristina Gallardo-Domas is his earthy-voiced but expressive Mimi. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)'CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA' AND 'PAGLIACCI' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) Perennially beloved and always hard-hitting, ''Cav/Pag'' offers two fine sopranos in Dolora Zajick and Krassimira Stoyanova, as well as the notable tenor Salvatore Licitra. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $42 to $220 tomorrow, $15 to $175 on Wednesday. (Bernard Holland) 'JENUFA' (Tonight and Tuesday night) The Finnish soprano Karita Mattila is riveting in the title role of Janacek's grim, insightful and, by the end, consoling Czech opera ''Jenufa,'' the Met's revival of its 2003 production by Olivier Tambosi. Ms. Mattila's gleaming voice is ideal for this character, a trusting young woman in a Moravian village who has become pregnant by her cousin. The German soprano Anja Silja is at once terrifying and pitiable as Jenufa's stepmother, Kostelnicka. Jiri Belohlavek conducts a sensitive and sweeping account of Janacek's score, presented in its 1908 version. At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $205. (Tommasini)* 'I PURITANI' (Monday and Thursday) The reason the Met dusted off its stodgy old 1976 production of Bellini's ''Puritani,'' and the one compelling reason to see it, is Anna Netrebko. This glamorous, dusky-voiced Russian soprano makes an affecting and vocally lustrous Elvira, the daughter of a stern Puritan father during the English Civil War whose sanity slips away when she thinks her adored Arturo, a Royalist sympathizer, is unfaithful. Ms. Netrebko may not be a bel canto purist's ideal. But she sings excitingly and stops the show with her Act II Mad Scene. On the illness-plagued opening night, only the fine bass-baritone John Relyea, singing Elvira's kindly uncle, despite grappling with remnants of bronchitis, was in the same dramatic class as the star. Patrick Summers conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Tommasini)* 'IL SIGNOR BRUSCHINO' (Tomorrow) The Gotham Chamber Opera presents a stylish, witty and genuinely funny new production of Rossini's one-act farce ''Il Signor Bruschino.'' The action is updated to the Via Veneto of Rome around 1960, with Felliniesque touches like priests and Vespas. The good-looking and talented cast members have fearless fun with the bel canto fireworks, while Robin Guarino's sharp directing means ''Bruschino,'' a typical opera buffa of mistaken identities, is far more than mere slapstick. At 8 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 279-4200, gothamchamberopera.org; $30 to $65. (Vivien Schweitzer) Classical Music* ALLOY ORCHESTRA (Wednesday and Thursday) A small ''orchestra'' indeed, Alloy is a three-man ensemble devoted to creating soundtracks for classic silent films, using instruments from synthesizers to (literally) a rack of junk (''percussion'' in high-culture parlance). The Winter Garden is presenting three of its specialties: ''Blackmail,'' Hitchcock's last silent film, on Wednesday; ''The Eagle,'' with Rudolph Valentino, on Thursday; and ''The General,'' with Buster Keaton, a week from tonight. At 7 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Anne Midgette) * ARTEMIS QUARTET (Wednesday) This exciting Berlin-based string quartet does not come to New York often enough. Its program may seem heavy-duty, but it is sure to be engrossing. Webern's ''Langsamer Satz'' should be an ideal warm-up for Beethoven's Quartet in E minor (Op. 59, No. 2). After intermission the quartet takes on Schoenberg's extraordinary Quartet No. 1. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $32 to $44. (Tommasini)* BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday) This floating concert hall is featuring the pianist-conductor Vladimir Stoupel and the violinist Judith Ingolfsson playing works that, while not new, will receive their United States premieres. Tonight a solo recital by Mr. Stoupel includes a piece by Peter Ruzicka, former head of the Salzburg Festival, ''Ausgeweidet die Zeit '' (1969) as well as works by Schubert and Schumann. Tomorrow and Sunday Ms. Ingolfsson joins the pianist for an ''Offerto'' by Haflidi Hallgrimsson, as well as sonatas by Schumann and Schubert, and Ravel's ''Tzigane.'' Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+, tonight only. (Midgette)BROOKLYN PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow) The Brooklyn Philharmonic, led by Michael Christie, looks Down Under for inspiration in a concert that opens its 53rd season. The program, ''Earth Awakened,'' begins with ''Mangrove'' and ''Earth Cry'' by the Australian composer Peter Sculthorpe, featuring his compatriot William Barton on didgeridoo. The orchestra will then be joined by Nicholas Leichter's dance troupe, which will perform a premiere set to Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring.'' At 8 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, brooklynphilharmonic.org; $20 to $60; $10 for students. (Schweitzer) CHOIR AND ORCHESTRA OF ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA (Wednesday) Kent Tritle conducts a feast of the Baroque from the Roman Catholic Church, including pieces by Domenico Zipoli, Tomas Luis de Victoria and Vivaldi. At 8 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue, at 84th Street, (212) 288-2520, saintignatiusloyola.org; $25 to $45. (Holland)COMPOSER PORTRAIT: FRANK ZAPPA (Tonight) Even in the early days of his rock career, Frank Zappa was fascinated by contemporary composers and began to assemble a catalog of orchestral, chamber and keyboard scores. Some of those, along with arrangements of some of Zappa's more far-reaching rock works, are included in this installment of the Miller Theater's Composer Portraits series. The performers are the Fireworks Ensemble and the Zephyros Winds. At 8, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com; $25; $12 for students. (Allan Kozinn)CONCERTANTE (Sunday) The pianist Adam Neiman joins the six string soloists of this acclaimed young ensemble for Dvorak's second piano quartet and Bagatelles for Two Violins, Cello and Harmonium on a program that also includes Erwin Schulhoff's string sextet. At 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $20. (Midgette)* LISE DE LA SALLE (Tomorrow) Still a teenager, this gifted French pianist has been making waves for several years with big, strong, impressive playing. Peoples' Symphony Concerts presents her in a program that contrasts Mozart and Prokofiev, who are also the focus of a forthcoming recording by Ms. de la Salle. At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $9. (Midgette) 'THE ELECTRONIC SHOFAR' (Tomorrow) The shofar, an ancient instrument made from a ram's horn, is heard these days most frequently during the Jewish High Holy Day services. But some contemporary composers have found its strong, piercing timbre useful, among them Alvin Curran and Bob Gluck, who have each created works that combine the shofar's timbre with electronic sound processing. They share a concert at which they will perform their recent shofar works. At 8 p.m., Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (888) 749-9998, emf.org; $10 suggested donation. (Kozinn) * TILL FELLNER (Thursday) The sensitive and resourceful Austrian pianist Till Fellner is next in the Met Museum's ''Piano Forte'' series. His performances of works by Beethoven, Bach and Schubert should be rewarding. Count on his survey of Bach's Three-Part Inventions to be exquisite, at least on the basis of his distinguished recording of Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier,'' Book I. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $40. (Tommasini)* FLUX QUARTET (Thursday) This enterprising new-music quartet offers works by Skip LaPlante, Alvin Lucier, Bunita Marcus, Roscoe Mitchell, Elliott Sharp and Tom Chiu. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $10; $7 for students. (Kozinn)* FOCUS FESTIVAL (Tonight) The Juilliard School's annual new-music festival turns its sights this year on Hungarian music since Bartok. The closing program includes two of Hungary's most famous composers, Gyorgy Kurtag and Gyorgy Ligeti, as well as two others, Endre Szervanszky and Laszlo Tihanyi, who are less well known but, judging by this festival's track record, are likely to be worth investigating. Diego Masson conducts the Juilliard Orchestra. At 8, Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free, but tickets are required. (Kozinn)NEW YORK COLLEGIUM (Thursday) Musicians often perform and teach in schools, but they rarely bring students onstage with them. For five years, the New York Collegium has worked with students in kindergarten through the eighth grade at the Ella Baker School. On Thursday the children will join the early-music specialists of the Collegium for ''Ancient and Traditional: Tunes From Around the World,'' a concert of music from medieval Europe, Renaissance Spain and North America. At 7:30 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 717-9246, nycollegium.org; $30. (Schweitzer) NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG (Wednesday and Thursday) Offering a smorgasbord of song seasoned with Steven Blier's smart and witty commentary from the keyboard, this recital series sometimes goes back to dishes it has done well with before. ''Dvorak and the American Soul'' is a recapitulation from 2002; the program presents works by Dvorak and his American students, like Harry T. Burleigh and Will Marion Cook. At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $45; $35 for 65+. (Midgette) * NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Tuesday and Thursday) Esa-Pekka Salonen, the dynamic conductor of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, is in town for a program with our own Philharmonic, offering music by Ravel, Mussorgsky and the world premiere of Mr. Salonen's piano concerto, with Yefim Bronfman as soloist. On Tuesday, for a ''Hear and Now'' program, Mr. Salonen will discuss his concerto with the composer Steven Stucky, and then conduct a performance. On Thursday Alan Gilbert conducts works by Daniel Bortz, Debussy and Beethoven (the First Piano Concerto, with Lars Vogt). Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Tuesday at 6:45 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $28 to $96; $10 to $35 on Tuesday. (Tommasini)'ORATORIO TEREZIN' (Wednesday and Thursday) Ruth Fazal, an English violinist and composer who now lives in Canada has written an oratorio about Theresienstadt, or Terezin, the concentration camp near Prague. For her text Ms. Fazal used children's poetry written at the camp, as well as passages from the Hebrew Scriptures. The performers include Teresa Maria Gomez, soprano; Huw Priday, tenor; and Nathaniel Watson, baritone, with Kirk Trevor conducting the Perspectives Ensemble Orchestra, Young People's Chorus of New York City, singers from the New Streams Children's Choir of Toronto and Bratislava Boys Choir and the Mendelssohn Singers of Toronto. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org; $25 to $50. Thursday at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $25 to $50. (Kozinn)ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) Stanford Olsen pays a visit in Britten's ravishing Serenade for Tenor, Horn and Strings. Martinu and Mozart are the rest of the program. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $30 to $88. (Holland)* ST. LUKE'S CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) This ensemble is so popular that its concerts in April are already sold out, and so are its performances next week at the Morgan Library. If you haven't snagged a ticket to the Morgan, try and catch the ensemble at the Brooklyn Museum, where it will play the same program: ''Four, Five, Six'' includes Mendelssohn's Quintet in A (Op. 18), Joan Tower's ''In Memory'' and Brahms's Sextet (Op. 18). Sunday at 2 p.m., Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park; $25; $20 for museum members. Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street; sold out. Information: (212) 594-6100 or oslmusic.org. (Schweitzer) JORY VINIKOUR (Sunday) The Music Before 1800 series presents Mr. Vinikour, a Paris-based American harpsichordist, who will perform Bach's Partita in D and Handel's Suite in G minor and Chaconne in G. Mr. Vinikour, who has appeared in recital with the singers David Daniels, Magdalena Kozena and Anne Sofie von Otter, has performed premieres of works by Frank Martin and Harold Meltzer. At 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266; mb1800.org; $25 to $40; $5 off for students and 62+. (Schweitzer) DanceFull reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.* BIG DANCE THEATER (Wednesday and Thursday) Annie-B Parsons and Paul Lazar, Big's wildly imaginative choreographer and director, explore the stories of the contemporary novelist Masuji Ibuse just in time for the start of Japan Society's celebration of its yearlong centennial. (Through Feb. 10.) At 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org; $35. (Jennifer Dunning) COOL NEW YORK 2007 (Tonight through Sunday) Young Soon Kim, the tireless producer of free dance showcase festivals, is at it again. Part of the fun, in addition to the grab-bag serendipity of each event, is her welcoming little studio theater. Tonight at 7 and 9; tomorrow at 2, 7 and 9 p.m.; Sunday at 4 and 6 p.m. White Wave's John Ryan Theater, 25 Jay Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com (Dunning) DANCE CONVERSATIONS @ THE FLEA (Tuesday) This free series of dance and talk begins with a program of work by four newish choreographers, moderated by Yoshiko Chuma. At 7 p.m., the Flea Theater, 41 White Street, between Church Street and Broadway, TriBeCa, (212) 645-6462, theflea.org. (Dunning) DANCEWAVE'S KIDS COMPANY (Thursday) These child performers, who dance decidedly grown-up works, will present a gala benefit program that includes excerpts from Twyla Tharp's ''Fugue.'' The former Tharp dancers John Carrafa, Thomas Rawe and Jennifer Way-Rawe will also perform. Aat 7:30 p.m., Kumble Theater, Long Island University Brooklyn Campus, Flatbush and DeKalb Avenues, Downtown Brooklyn, (718) 522-4696, dancewave.org; $50 and $100. (Dunning) * D D DORVILLIER (Tonight and tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday nights) Ms. Dorvillier describes her new ''Nottthing Is Importanttt'' as a cinema performance, incorporating video and a ''dark and sound environment.'' Whatever all that means, Ms. Dorvillier's wild, intuitive and visual imagination is usually reason enough to take the plunge. (Through Feb. 10.) At 8, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, Ext. 11; thekitchen.org; $12. (Dunning) 'FRIDAYS @ NOON' (Today) Participants in the latest installment of this free dance-and-talk series are Regina Nejman, Anna Sperger and Megan Sprenger, who will perform new and unfinished dances. At noon, Harkness Dance Center, 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92Y.org. (Dunning)HAMBURG BALLET (Wednesday and Thursday) The ballet choreographer New York ballet fans love to hate, John Neumeier, makes big, operatic, narrative ballets. This one is ''Death in Venice,'' which he describes as a ''free adaptation of the novella by Thomas Mann.'' (Through Feb. 10.) At 7:30 p.m., Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $20 to $70. (Dunning) BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COmpany (Tomorrow and Sunday) Mr. Jones and his dancers like to provoke thought as well as enjoyment of the company's high-powered performing. This engagement features ''Another Evening, I Bow Down,'' set to live music by Daniel Bernard Roumain that blends funk, heavy metal, hip-hop and classical influences. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $44. (Dunning) KINETIC DANCE THEATER (Tonight) Directed by Joanna and Ryan Greer, the company will perform ''I'll Take Summer,'' a new cabaret-dance piece that celebrates that sunny season. (Repeated Feb. 11, 16 and 19.) At 9, Don't Tell Mama, 343 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 757-0788, kineticdancetheater.org; $10 cover, two-drink minimum. (Dunning)* Isabel Lewis/Erika Hand and Katie Workum/Will Rawls (Wednesday and Thursday) With four choreographers on tap, this split bill seems almost like a sampler in disguise, but with performers like Mr. Rawls and Ms. Lewis, who are we to quibble? (Through Feb. 10.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $12 and $20. (Claudia La Rocco)MIRO MAGLOIRE'S NEW CHAMBER BALLET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Magloire's knowledge and love of music shine through his unaffected ballet choreography. Deborah Lohse is guest choreographer. At 8:30, City Center Studio 4, 130 West 56th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $20; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning) * NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Thursday) Tonight's ''Balanchine and Robbins: Masters at Work'' promises to be of special interest, considering that it includes a major revival of Jerome Robbins's dark ''Dybbuk'' and Kyra Nichols leading ''Serenade,'' George Balanchine's first American ballet, partnered by Philip Neal in a fine cast that also includes Ashley Bouder, Maria Kowroski and Stephen Hanna. Balanchine's ''Stravinsky Violin Concerto'' completes the program, which will be repeated tomorrow and Wednesday nights this week. Other programs are ''Essential Balanchine'' (tomorrow afternoon) and ''Tribute to Kirstein,'' which includes Balanchine's sumptuous ''Vienna Waltzes'' (Sunday, Monday and Thursday). Miranda Weese, whose retirement from the company at the end of the season will be a major loss, was extraordinary in her musical phrasing and her daring in a recent performance of the Fruhlingsstimmen waltz in ''Vienna Waltzes.'' She is scheduled to dance it, again with an impressive Benjamin Millepied, at all three performances this week. (Through Feb. 25.) Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $30 to $82. (Dunning) PILOBOLUS DANCE THEATER (Tonight) The dreamlike visual imagery and humor of Pilobolus will be on view in a program that includes ''Prism,'' ''Gnomen,'' ''Memento Mori,'' ''Megawatt'' and the solo from ''Empty Suitor.'' At 8, Tilles Center for the Performing Arts at Long Island University's C. W. Post Campus, Route 25A, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org; $40 to $65; $37 to $62 for 65+. (Dunning)* TAMAR ROGOFF'S 'EDITH & JENNY' (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Rogoff's piece alludes to the childhood friendship of her daughter, Ariel Rogoff Flavin, and Claire Danes, who trained in dance before becoming a film actress, as well as roles each played as 11-year-olds in films by Jeff Mueller. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 5 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 5 p.m., Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 477-5288, ps122.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning) jill sigman/thinkdance (Thursday) What have you broken? What have you lost? How do you want to die? Send your answers to rupture07@gmail.com, and then check out a performance of ''Rupture'' to see how your thoughts fit into Ms. Sigman's choreographic vision. (Through Feb. 11.) At 8:30 p.m. Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $10 and $15. (La Rocco)SYREN (Tonight through Sunday) The company will present Kate Mehan's ''Abravanel,'' a dance inspired by the culture, music, history and travels of the Sephardic Jews. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 p.m., Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $25; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning) ArtMuseums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums* American Folk Art Museum: MARTiN RAMiREZ, through April 29. Ramirez, a Mexican peasant who immigrated to Northern California and died there at 68 in 1963, spent the last 32 years of his life in a mental hospital making some of the greatest art of the last century. He had his own way with materials and color and an unforgettable cast of characters (most notably, a mounted caballero and a levitating Madonna crowned like the Statue of Liberty.) But most of all, Ramirez had his own brand of pictorial space, established by rhythmic systems of parallel lines, both curved and straight, whose mesmerizing expansions and contractions simultaneously cosset and isolate his figures. In addition to being one of the season's best exhibitions and the first of his work in a New York museum, this show should render null and void the distinction between insider and outsider art. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)* American Museum of Natural History: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. This astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples -- larded with fascinating facts and tales -- ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Smith)* Grey Art Gallery: 'Semina Culture: Wallace Berman & His Circle,' through March 31. The artist Wallace Berman (1926-76) may ring only a faint bell to many New Yorkers, but he was a central, charismatic figure in an underground of West Coast artists and poets in the 1950s and 60s. A collagist, poet, photographer and the publisher of an influential journal, Semina, he inspired others to make art too, sparking hidden aptitude in startling places. After meeting him, drifters, movie stars, ex-marines and petty criminals found themselves starting to paint and write. And a traveling love company of them has come to Grey Art Gallery, trailing dreams, delusions and marijuana clouds. New York University, 100 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780. (Holland Cotter)* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'Spanish Painting from El Greco to Picasso, TIME, TRUTH, AND HISTORY' through March 28. This show is carried along on its sheer star power and optical finesse. There are dozens of Goyas and Velazquezes and Zurbarans and El Grecos and Riberas and Dalis and Picassos, many famous, many not. I can't tell you how often I was stopped by a picture so good or unexpected that it made me do a double take. Velazquez's painting of a dwarf is alone worth crossing a continent to see. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Michael Kimmelman) International Center of Photography: 'Henri Cartier-Bresson's Scrapbook: Photographs, 1932-46,' through April 29. Arrived by way of the Fondation Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris, this show has more than 300 of the prints the photographer glued into an album and toted to New York for curators at the Museum of Modern Art to cull. Captured by the Nazis, he had been presumed dead when the Modern planned his retrospective. Then he turned up alive -- the ''posthumous'' exhibition opened, with him in attendance, in 1947. The current exhibition reconstructs as best as possible the original layout of the scrapbook. It's an eye-straining affair, but it surveys the revolutionary work he shot in Spain, Italy, Mexico, Britain and France. His taste for uncanny detail linked him to Surrealism and Surrealist wit, but unlike many Surrealists, he remained committed to human values. Boys mug at his camera. Prostitutes swan. Their gazes equalize them with us. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Kimmelman) International Center of Photography: 'Martin Munkacsi: Think While You Shoot!' through April 29. Munkacsi, who inspired Cartier-Bresson, was, by contrast, self-taught, a creature of his own devising. This is the most complete retrospective, with a thick catalog (not too well researched) and dozens of vintage prints from the 1920s through the early '60s. He favored scenes of daily life, absorbing avant-garde ideas about odd angles and abstract compositions. In 1928 he moved to Berlin and traveled the world on assignment to Brazil, Algeria and Egypt. Munkacsi was a stylist, and he made catchy images the only way he knew how, in a modernist mode, which, being an opportunistic form, could serve any master. He became a celebrity in America. He photographed Fred Astaire dancing and Joan Crawford poolside. In the breezy layouts of Harper's Bazaar, the work looked brilliant. (See above.) (Kimmelman) * THE METropolitan museum of art: 'GLITTER AND DOOM: GERMAN PORTRAITS FROM THE 1920s,' through Feb. 19. The 100 paintings and drawings on display here are by 10 artists, including George Grosz, Christian Schad and Karl Hubbuch, and most conspicuously the unrelentingly savage Otto Dix and his magnificent other, Max Beckmann. In their works the Weimar Republic's porous worlds reassemble; we look into the faces of museum directors and cabaret performers, society matrons and scarred war veterans, prostitutes and jaded aristocrats who were watching their world slide from one cataclysm to the next. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith) * The MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer, and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck) * Museum of Modern Art: 'DOUG AITKEN: SLEEPWALKERS,' through Feb. 12. Produced in concert with Creative Time Inc., this monumental video projection, screened nightly (from 5 to 10) on three sides of the sleek exterior of the newly expanded Museum of Modern Art, consists of short, silent and rather too glamorous meditations on the working nights of five emblematic New Yorkers played somnolently by actors and musicians who include Donald Sutherland and Tilda Swinton. But Mr. Aitken's astute and restless cinematic ambition and commanding sense of scale are in full force, especially in the more abstract portions of the piece, resulting in a fitting ode to the city that never sleeps and that the camera has always loved. (212) 708-9400, daily. (Smith)Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Kiki Smith: A Gathering, 1980-2005,' through Feb. 11. Many things fly and float here: men and women, harpies and angels, birds and beasts, toadstools and stars. And some things fall to earth, or rather to the museum's black stone floors, maybe to rise again, maybe not. The whole show, a midcareer retrospective, suggests a Victorian fairy tale, its tone at once light, grievous and dreamlike. But fanciful as it is, Ms. Smith's art is also deeply, corporeally realistic. It wears moral and mortal seriousness on its sleeve, if not tattooed on its wrist. It is about life and death, the essential things. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)Galleries: SoHo* Stephen G. Rhodes: 'Recurrency' It's great when someone gets ambitiously complicated and makes it work, as the young Los Angeles-based artist Stephen G. Rhodes does in his first solo show. Formally, he juggles video, sculpture, photographs and drawings, and hooks them up in a circling narrative that richochets from 19th-century fiction to B films to Hurricane Katrina. The play of history, fiction and recent reality that results is memorably atmospheric. Guild & Greyshkul, 28 Wooster Street, (212) 625-9224, www.guildgreyshkul.com, through Feb. 10. (Cotter)Galleries: Chelsea* PIA MARIA MARTIN, HAERI YOO, YUH-SHIOH WONG A sense of dismemberment and its converse (reassemblage) courses through this nicely raucous show. Somewhat a la Dana Schutz, Haeri Yoo splays drawn and painted figures across walls and occasionally canvases, intimating a picnic or maybe childbirth. Yuh-Shioh Wong's polymorphous installation uses discarded materials, especially wood, mirrors and Styrofoam, to revisit Cubism and Surrealism at once. In ''March to the Gallows,'' Pia Maria Martin's stop-action animation, a bodiless chicken pulls itself together to the tune of Berlioz's ''Symphonie Fanatastique.'' Thomas Erben Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 727-2050, thomaserben.com, through Feb. 10 . (Smith)* JACCO OLIVIER Yet another painter working in animation might seem a little tiresome. But these wistful filmed animations of loosely brushed seascapes and landscapes by Jacco Olivier are perfectly lovely. It is no revelation that he is from the Netherlands -- Dutch artists more or less invented landscape imagery in the late 16th century. This artist updates the genre, taking us on colorful sensory journeys, usually of no more than a minute, through the towns and countryside around Amsterdam. The imagery is marvelously painterly, with the individual frames sometimes bordering on abstraction, though the narrative structure owes much to the techniques of film. Mr. Olivier's peculiar genius is to have effortlessly combined them. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street, (212) 680-9889, www.marianboeskygallery.com, through Feb. 17. (Benjamin Genocchio) AMY YOES: REARVIEW MIRROR This three-part show progresses organically from black and white to ringing color, small to large, and still photography to installation and video. As it goes, the principles of set-up photography are set in motion and enlarged to walk-in scale. If the small, elegant photographs that get the ball rolling remain the strongest work, the ensemble still brims with ambition and possibility. Michael Steinberg Fine Art, 529 West 26th Street, (212) 924-5770, www.michaelsteinbergfineart.com, through Feb. 10. (Smith)Last ChanceJOHN EVANS: HAPPY NEW YEAR! This show contains a winsome review of Mr. Evans's 37-year, collage-a-day habit, but the main event is the five rarely seen black-on-raw-canvas paintings from the 1970s, whose charcoal tones and collage-like arrangements of semi-abstract textures and motifs -- from a swastika to caning to shag carpet -- are both lush and barbed. They presage much that befell painting in the decade ahead. Pavel Zoubok Gallery, 533 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 675-7490, www.pavelzoubok.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)* BRENT GREEN: 'Paulina Hollers' Mr. Green makes charmingly crude stop-motion animation shorts using wood-carved figurines, found props and childish drawings, an eyebrow-raising selection of which is now at Bellwether for his first New York solo show. Typically they deal with death -- though only 28, Mr. Green has a sullenly melancholy bent that's generally at odds with the carefree fare produced by artists his age. The inexplicable allure of these odd, dark films is further enhanced by their unusual, improvised soundtracks of the artist's riffing on instruments with his buddies while yelling out a narration like a crazed preacher. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-5959, www.bellwethergallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Genocchio)* Robert Irwin: 'Who's Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue 3' In the past Robert Irwin has paid homage to Joseph Albers. Now he makes a bow to a different kind of perceptual magician, Barnett Newman, turning Newman's 1966-70 paintings titled ''Who's Afraid of Red, Yellow and Blue'' into a kind of self-reflective architecture. Optical illusionism has long been Mr. Irwin's calling card, but here he has achieved it by bare-bones means, offering quieting visual fare for an overstimulated world. PaceWildenstein, 545 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-4258, pacewildenstein.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)* PORTIA MUNSON: GREEN On the floor, all manner of discarded plastic objects and cheap toys coalesce into a dense scatter piece that commemorates the fall of nature, the rise of suburbia and the varied tonalities of indigenous if artificial green. On the walls, exquisite mille-fleur-like color photographs made on a scanner redirect set-up photography back toward the experimental nature prints and photogenic drawings of the 19th century. P.P.O.W., 555 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 647-1043, www.ppowgallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)SCOTT REEDER: NEW WORK In his fourth New York gallery show, the polymath artist Scott Reeder has returned to canvas (from shaped Styrofoam) and lowered the cute quotient without forsaking either his sense of humor or his taste for slightly tarnished pastels. He continues to riff on Modernism, as suggested by ''Still Life With Grenades,'' ''Money in Bed'' and a Ken Noland circle titled ''Continuous Hotdog.'' This is a transitional show, but the idea of Mr. Reeder expanding his painting repertory while sharpening his acerbic edge is intriguing. Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-4949, www.danielreichgallery.com; through tomorrow. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- Martin Munkacsi's photograph of Fred Astaire is among his works on display at the International Center of Photography. Page 27. (Photo by Joan Munkacsi/Sammlung F.C. Gundlach)
THEATER -- Cynthia Hopkins, above, plays both a mother and a daughter in ''Must Don't Whip 'Um.'' Page 25. (Photo by PA)
 POP -- David Byrne, below, is performer and host at the Perspectives series at Carnegie Hall this weekend. Page 25. (Photo by Shane Reid) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM GENRES (77%); MUSIC (77%); FILM (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); FAMILY (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



30 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: Complex, Contradictory Robert Moses

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Few shows force you to rethink an urban legend. That's the challenge posed by ''Robert Moses and the Modern City,'' a sweeping, scholarly exhibition that breathes fresh air into one of the most tired, overworked and misunderstood subjects in the city's history.
 Shown at three New York locations, the exhibition traces Moses' remarkable career as parks commissioner from 1934 to 1960 and as a leader of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority from 1934 to 1968, when he oversaw a radical transformation of New York through the construction of bridges, expressways and public parks and vast slum clearance projects. It paints a nuanced portrait of a man who, in the public imagination at least, has become a caricature of the ruthless bureaucrat.
Most effectively, the show maps the extent to which Moses' decisions were governed by the larger forces shaping the 20th-century city: a booming car culture, panic over middle-class flight to the suburbs, the rigid orthodoxies of late Modernism. In the process it demolishes the polarizing arguments that still define New York architecture and planning debates a quarter-century after the master builder's death. Organized by Hilary Ballon, an architectural historian at Columbia University, the show should be required viewing for all government bureaucrats involved in urban policy -- no, for anyone who loves New York. 
 For a generation of New Yorkers, Moses' reputation was defined by his bitter battles in the 1960s, like the one with Jane Jacobs over a freeway proposal that would have condemned large sections of Lower Manhattan to the wrecking ball. It was cemented by Robert A. Caro's ''Power Broker,'' the 1974 biography that famously portrayed Moses as a villainous figure who, through his control of federal slum clearance and highway money, was able to trample tens of thousands of lives, uprooting entire neighborhoods in a quest to impose his megalomaniacal vision: a city of dehumanizing superblocks strangled in ribbons of expressways.
 The show's intelligence is that it doesn't shy away from Moses' dark side. It includes one of his most shameful projects, the construction of the Cross Bronx Expressway, which displaced thousands of souls and pitilessly erased the thriving middle-class neighborhood of East Tremont.
 And there are delicious discoveries, like a series of models at the Museum of the City of New York that the show's organizers salvaged from a forgotten storage room beneath a footing of the Triborough Bridge, a few yards from the innocuous office building on Randalls Island where Moses plotted the city's future. For example, a 22-foot-long wood scale model of the proposed Mid-Manhattan Expressway depicts a narrow section of the city, with the expressway marked by a dark gray line carving down its center.
 That single line, cool yet menacing, testifies to Moses' surgical detachment from the city he was operating on. It also links him to a modern urban tradition extending back through Le Corbusier's vast theoretical schemes to the work of Baron Haussmann, the 19th-century planner who carved his grand boulevards through Paris's medieval fabric with equal ruthlessness.
 The human cost of Moses' legacy -- in displaced families, obliterated communities, lost historical memory -- is impossible to measure. But using a wide array of architectural renderings, archival photographs and historical documents, the show also makes the point that, despite his reputation as an omnipotent planner, he lost plenty of battles along the way. Many of his most scorned proposals, from the Brooklyn-Battery Bridge from Red Hook to Battery Park in the 1930s to the expressways coursing across Midtown and Lower Manhattan, were never built. And many of Moses' highway projects, especially those from the early decades, were major triumphs that integrated cars and nature.
 The much beloved Riverside Park, for example, built by Moses in the 1930s over a strip of decrepit rail tracks, lumber yards and docks, neatly masks the view of cars streaming by below, in what remains a model of thoughtful urban planning.
 For East River Park, a tree-shaded esplanade with recreational amenities completed in 1939, Moses reshaped the shoreline near the Williamsburg Bridge along Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive and the East River. A pedestrian overpass completed two years later acts as a hinge, connecting it to an existing 19th-century park and culminating at a small, entrancing amphitheater (now in ruins, as a photograph in the show testifies), with the East River as its backdrop. 
 Projects like these, in which Moses sought to weave a densely populated metropolis into a broader regional network animated by the freedom of the open road, sprang from a heartfelt populist agenda. 
 Of course, Moses is far better known for more ignominious acts, like his plan, magnificently recounted in Mr. Caro's book, to destroy a playground to expand the parking lot for the Tavern on the Green restaurant in Central Park. When local mothers rebelled, Moses ordered the bulldozers in at night, creating a public scandal.
 Yet Moses created much of the same park that is so beloved by parents today. When he was appointed city parks commissioner at the height of the Depression, Central Park was dotted with fetid Hoovervilles. Moses reseeded lawns, planted flowers, repaved walks, transformed the old Croton Reservoir into the Great Lawn and built a necklace of public playgrounds along the edges of the park, as well as ball fields and the Wollman Memorial Skating Rink.
 Perhaps the most powerful architectural expressions of that mission were the 23 public swimming pools with bathhouses Moses built in a five-year period beginning in the mid-1930s. A graceful colonnaded arcade shelters the shops and restaurants at Orchard Beach; the vivid geometric forms and intricate tile and brick work of the McCarren Park Pool in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, celebrate the therapeutic value of communal exercise. For Moses, those projects were part of a broader strategy to reinforce middle-class neighborhoods and deter residents from fleeing to the suburbs.
 But in many ways Moses was just a product of his times. In the 1930s, many American city planners had begun to recognize that suburbs posed a threat to the future of American cities. That panic peaked with the boom in postwar suburban development and passage of the federal highway act of 1956, which poured billions into the construction of a network of roads that spurred the exodus from cities and transformed the nation into a society dependent on cars.
 Modernism, too, was changing. By the 1950s, the utopian visions generated in the early decades of the 20th century had calcified into a dogmatic formula: the functionalist city of high-rise residential blocks, distinct commercial and residential zones and a near total disregard for the neighborhood's historical fabric. The impact can still be felt in places as far-flung as Detroit, Paris and Moscow.
 This type of thinking was codified in the United States in a web of government and financial regulations. In the exhibition at Columbia University, a page of the manual for the Title I program, which provided the federal money for most of Moses' housing projects, warns that ''patching up hopelessly worn-out buildings'' will only hinder large-scale slum clearance efforts. 
 Nor did Moses ever see good design -- that is, innovative architectural form -- as an instrument of public policy. Over the course of his career, he worked with many talented planners and architects, from Gilmore Clarke, the designer of Riverside Drive, to I. M. Pei. But it was left to private developers to choose the architects they worked with. Andthose architects had to navigate a maddening maze of federal and city rules.
 When Mr. Pei was hired to design Kips Bay Plaza, completed in 1963, for instance, he struggled with Federal Housing Administration restrictions that not only limited a project's cost per square foot but also gave preference to buildings with balconies. The deep-set concrete grid of his facade, creating the illusion of balconies, was an elegant ploy to circumvent these regulations.
 If the formulas have changed since then, the preservationist arguments have only gained in intensity. By the time Moses died in 1981, the preservation movement was firmly established, and the wholesale destruction of urban neighborhoods was no longer a possibility. Yet historicist formulas like those embodied in recent projects like Battery Park City pose their own problems, injecting an incongruous note of suburban homogeneity. Middle-class housing developments like Stuyvesant Town, which Moses used as a model, are being sold to private developers who will drive out working families. And the city is virtually unable to build a park without corporate sponsorship these days.
 The joy of this exhibition is that it recognizes that the issues facing cities today are more complex than choosing between a respect for the past and an embrace of the future. Moses, once a symbol of reckless change, is now part of our history too. We can see the beauty in some of his projects without denying the destructiveness of others. Three Aspects of New York's Master BuilderHere is information about the Robert Moses exhibition. In addition to the individual Web sites, information about all three displays can be found at learn.columbia.edu/moses: 'Robert Moses and the Modern City: Remaking the Metropolis,' at the Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Through May 28. Sunday at 1 p.m., a tour of the Moses exhibition with Hilary Ballon, the curator. On Feb. 11 at 3 p.m., Robert A. Caro, author of ''The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York,'' will discuss Moses' career; $15; members, $10; registration required, Ext. 3395.'Robert Moses and the Modern City: The Road to Recreation,' at the Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; queensmuseum.org. Through May 27. Also reopening at the museum on Sunday is the Panorama of the City of New York exhibition. Special events tied to the exhibition include a bus tour of sites associated with Moses (Feb. 24), a walking tour of the former site of the 1964-65 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park (April 28) and a bicycle tour past sites associated with Moses in the Rockaways (May 12).'Robert Moses and the Modern City: Slum Clearance and the Superblock Solution,' at the Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University, Schermerhorn Hall, eighth floor, Broadway and 116th Street, Morningside Heights; columbia.edu/cu/wallach. Through April 14. ''Robert Moses: New Perspectives on the Master Builder,'' a two-day event organized by the gallery with discussions and visits to the three displays, will take place March 2 and 3; information: www.columbia.edu/cu/lehmancenter.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Weekend on Feb. 2 with a review of exhibitions devoted to Robert Moses at the Museum of the City of New York, the Queens Museum of Art and the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University referred incompletely to the Chatham Green housing project in Lower Manhattan. While Moses oversaw the development plan and chose the project's sponsor, it was the sponsor -- the Association for Middle Income Housing -- that selected the architect and constructed the buildings, not Moses.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Moses transformed New York with projects like the Kips Bay Plaza, as ''Robert Moses and the Modern City,'' an exhibition at Columbia University, the Museum of the City of New York and the Queens Museum of Art, makes clear. (Photo by Andrew Moore/W. W. Norton)(pg. E31)
Public pools like the Astoria Pool in Queens, here in 1936, were among the most popular projects initiated by Robert Moses. (Photo by Long Island State Park Region Photo Archives/New York City Parks Photo Archives)
Chatham Green in Manhattan, an example of a Robert Moses housing project. (Photo by Andrew Moore/W. W. Norton)
 The opening of the Thomas Jefferson Pool in Manhattan in 1936. (Photo by Department of Parks and Recreation/NYC Municipal Archives)(pg. E33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); SUBURBS (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (56%) Reviews; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%) Queens Museum of Art (NYC); Museum of the City of New York

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff; Robert (1888-1981) Moses

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



31 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Decadence Dominates While Disparity Grows

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Just after 7 p.m. Wednesday, as a full moon was being shown up by the South Beach lights, a man in laceless shoes whispered to a parking meter on 18th Street and James Avenue. 
 ''Give me some love,'' he said.
 He began shaking and rocking the meter wildly to dislodge a 3-minute nickel or a 15-minute quarter. 
 ''Love,'' he kept mumbling as a white limousine cruised by, with its undercarriage lit a velvety purple, as if Prince were clinging to the car's wheelbase.
 ''Stupid,'' the man said, cursing the meter, walking away. 
 There was no return. No loose slots.
 He should try his luck shaking the pants pockets of Roger Goodell. He is in town. You can't miss the N.F.L.'s new commissioner. He is your glamour host, your Donatella Versace, for Super Bowl XLI, trying his hand as a Caligula party planner for the first time.
 Super Bowl excess is of Mardi Gras-type legend, only more lucrative and with no sacrifice to come. (We're the N.F.L. -- No Facing Lent.) 
 The N.F.L. holiday of indulgence is a miracle of marketing. As reported Wednesday, the popularity of America's annual excuse to devour impressive amounts of Velveeta dip has reached unprecedented levels. Pop a cork, Mr. Commish. Forbes just listed the Super Bowl as the world's most valuable sporting event brand, worth $379 million, ahead of the Summer Olympics ($176 million) and the World Cup ($103 million). 
 Here, the space between the N.F.L. and its runners-up is the difference between an ocean-front estate and a pad on the Intracoastal Waterway. And, also here, the distance between glass condominiums rising like periscopes and peeling houses on the verge of collapse is just a few blocks in what the Census Bureau has listed as America's third-poorest city.
 The Super Bowl only illuminates the close proximity between rich and poor and the amazing class gap in between. The Super Bowl fits right into Miami as the decadent neighbor of the forlorn.
 For a couple of years, the N.F.L. attempted a blue-collar outreach program of sorts as it whisked through Jacksonville and Detroit, only to discover its corporate partners and celebrity posse preferred fine wine to Waffle Houses, balmy breezes to wind chills.
 The N.F.L. has pitched its big-top tent, once again, in baking-powder sands. By day, the pastel-colored Art Deco buildings along Ocean Drive make you feel as if you're standing amid rows of SweeTarts. By night, just street tarts. 
 Amid Maserati traffic jams, $5,000-a-night hotels, $4,000 game tickets and $12,000 V.I.P. party passes, amid all this hedonism, isn't there a return on consumption? 
 Perpetually sunny Super Bowl organizers have chirped about the estimated $400 million that will be cascading over the community. Economists in almost every local newspaper have laughed over their pie charts at such Pollyanna math. It's a boondoggle, they've said.
 Is a single 10-minute dime going to the needy? 
 ''The short answer is probably no,'' said Sam Gil, a spokesman for Camillus House, a homeless shelter in the city since the 1960s. ''The Jerry Rice Roast is the only thing that will benefit us.''
 Rice, he always had the softest hands in football. Now he was lending one. With 400 V.I.P. packages at $1,600 apiece, with other tickets ranging from $335 to $850, a nice check was sure to come to the House. 
 Gil spoke of the event around noon yesterday. By 5:30 p.m., a publicist for Rice said the roast, scheduled to start today, had been canceled. It wasn't Rice's call, the publicist said. As the Web site for the benefit stated, the cancellation was ''due to circumstances beyond our control.'' 
 How do you tell someone there may be nothing in their stocking? You call Gil and find some relief that news of the cancellation occurred after office hours. A voice mail picked up at Camillus House.
 This oasis for the needy is in the middle of the Biscayne Boulevard construction boom. Camillus House is surrounded by dozens of cranes that pop up like pterodactyl heads staring over the skyline.
 The cranes have a view to South Beach. On Wednesday night, the strip of Ocean Drive currently called the Super Bowl Motorola Mile -- everything has a N.F.L. sponsor tag on it -- was jumping with action. On the sidewalk, there strolled Reggie Bush and Vince Young. Somewhere, Serena Williams, a South Florida resident celebrating her Australian Open title and a Miami hostess with the mostess, was scheduled to alight on another bash. 
 The scene is a Who's Who of Who's Hot. This is the locale the N.F.L. wanted for its corporate pals with deep expense accounts. Other leagues have All-Star Games, but the Super Bowl is the N.F.L.'s thank you to their sponsors.
 Colts and Bears fans have to fight over what's left of the ticket split. There are a few Midwesterners around. You can spot them. They have sunburns the shape of V-necks. Mostly, South Beach is for the sexy crowd, which keeps the N.F.L.'s party-on image rolling. (Imagine the N.F.L. embracing a gay-friendly hotspot at any other time of the year.)
 All along the streets, near parks dotted by the homeless, Porsches are parked by Ferraris that are parked by Cadillac Escalades all day. The N.F.L. meter is running. No way to shake it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); CELEBRITIES (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); MARDI GRAS (72%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%); BRAND EQUITY (64%); OLYMPICS (64%); CENSUS (50%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (50%) Football; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Super Bowl

PERSON: DONATELLA VERSACE (52%) Selena Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



32 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Praying at the Pump

BYLINE: By Ronald E. Minsk. 
Ronald E. Minsk, a lawyer who represents electric utilities, was a special assistant for economic policy to President Bill Clinton.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
ONCE again, the price of oil is making Americans nervous. After falling by more than one-third since peaking above $75 per barrel last summer, the price has rebounded to $58 with the re-emergence of cold weather and news of a production cut by OPEC. As Congress and President Bush face off over energy policy, we should reaffirm a few basic principles. A very important one is that our most critical goal in enhancing our energy security is to maintain a stable price for oil.
 When we talk about energy ''dependence'' or ''security,'' we really mean oil. We do not import coal or wind or the sun or geothermal steam, and we import only a tiny percentage of the natural gas we consume from anywhere other than Canada. Thus there is virtually no geopolitical risk in using any of these sources. 
This is why energy policy statements frequently begin with the goal of ''eliminating the import of Middle East oil.'' Such aims presume that our insecurity derives from oil imports, and reflect our distaste of being beholden to autocratic regimes in the Middle East and elsewhere that we perceive as sharing neither our interests nor our values. This presumption, however, is wrong.
 Simply put, our oil addiction undermines our well-being because the volatility of oil prices threatens our economy. Because we spend so much on oil and there are no short-term substitutes, price spikes wreck household, business and government budgets alike. Our sense of insecurity is magnified because volatility is both unpredictable and generally beyond our control. 
 If we could predict future oil prices, we could plan for them. But few people can adjust their lifestyles to reduce their oil consumption significantly in response to price spikes. Likewise, businesses may be reluctant to invest in efficiency or alternative fuels because the higher oil prices that make such investments cost-effective could collapse virtually overnight. 
 It is important to remember that our insecurity is related to price volatility and not to the source of the oil. If OPEC members suspended exports but the price of oil mysteriously did not rise, we would not care about the interruption. It is only because a supply interruption always affects price that we care about oil's uninterrupted flow. 
 Yes, the oil market does care where oil comes from, because the political and economic stability of the supplier informs the market about its reliability as a producer. And because there is a world market for oil, supply interruptions anywhere affect the price of oil everywhere. Even if we imported oil only from the most stable countries (or eliminated imports altogether), so long as unstable countries and regions supply the world market, we would be exposed to the risks of a volatile market. It is precisely the economic risk posed by price fluctuations that forces us to spend diplomatic and military capital in oil-producing regions.
 This means that the percentage of oil we import is relatively unimportant. Even the use of alternative liquid fuel instead of oil-derived gasoline will not allow us to escape this volatility, because as direct substitutes for each other, gasoline and alternative fuels will be similarly priced, just as gasoline sold by different oil companies or at different gas stations is similarly priced today.
 Accordingly, while the domestic production of oil or alternative liquid fuels may be critically important for other reasons -- it can create jobs, stimulate development of new technology, reduce the trade deficit, protect our environment and lower the baseline price of oil -- it won't do much to end oil price fluctuations.
 It's true that we can help mitigate the effects of oil price volatility by increasing fuel economy standards on cars and trucks. In fact, the more efficient use we make of oil today as opposed to 25 years ago has certainly reduced some of the effects of recent price fluctuations. But tighter fuel standards cannot eliminate the effects of volatility, because new business and governmental budgets already assume increased efficiency; nor would they protect us from price spikes brought on by, say, a new military conflict in the Middle East. 
 The only way to truly address price instability is to find ways to, in a crisis, quickly and substantially increase fuel production, or to develop some means by which consumers could quickly switch from liquid transportation fuels to other fuels. Not only would it be remarkably difficult to develop these new abilities to such an extent that they could offset the effects of the largest foreseeable supply interruption, but achieving them might have an unexpectedly negative effect: undermining incentives to increase oil production and decrease demand. 
 In the short term, technology like plug-in hybrid cars could help with volatility, because it allows consumers to choose day to day whether to power their cars with oil or with the sources their utilities use. In the long term, however, if we cannot find a way to increase production and inoculate ourselves from oil-supply interruptions, we are either going to have to develop cars that need no oil, or learn to live with the risks of the global market. 
 When Americans fill up the tank, they do not care where their gasoline comes from -- they just want a stable price. And the fact that we import so much oil does not, in itself, cause its price to fluctuate so wildly or promote inflation. There are many paths to take as we seek to improve our energy security, but all should be based on one principle: real security can come only through finding a way to keep prices stable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Ronald E Minsk

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BELARUS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



33 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Senate Passes Wage Bill, but Obstacles Await

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
The Senate voted overwhelmingly Thursday to increase the minimum wage and give $8.3 billion in tax cuts to small businesses. 
 The increase in the wage, the first in 10 years, was a victory for Democrats, who had made it a key plank in their successful midterm election campaign to gain control of Congress.
But despite the huge margin of the Senate vote, 94 to 3, the increase -- to $7.25 from $5.15 -- must clear several hurdles before it becomes law. Democratic leaders in the Senate face their first big conflict with their counterparts in the House as the two chambers try to negotiate differences between the Senate bill and the one the House passed last month. 
 House Democrats promised that if they gained the majority they would pass the increase in the minimum wage, along with ethics reform and other measures, in their first 100 hours of legislating, and they succeeded.
 But the House bill did not include the tax breaks. House Democratic leaders have said they want a ''clean'' bill that simply raises the minimum wage.
 That approach failed in the Senate last week. Democratic leaders there say that they cannot get the Republican support they need without adding the tax provisions. 
 That leaves it to the Democratic leader in the Senate, Harry Reid of Nevada, to negotiate with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, and Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
 The House could block consideration of the bill or strip out the tax provisions and send it back for another Senate vote. 
 Mr. Reid said in a meeting with reporters early Thursday that he thought the Senate might approve a clean bill if the House sent it back for another try. But his office later said that he did not believe the vote count had changed and that he expected that the differences could be worked out in negotiations.
 ''It's not exactly clear what road we're going to take,'' said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee. But, Mr. Baucus added, ''the desire to get the minimum wage passed is going to trump'' any concerns or delays in negotiations.
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has championed the bill, said it was ''unrealistic'' to expect that it would simply go through the House. 
 Still, Mr. Kennedy said: ''The minimum wage is going to go up. I wish it was going to be tonight or tomorrow that we get it to the president's desk, but it is going to increase, and the only question is whether it's going to take perhaps a week or it's going to take two and a half, two weeks or so.''
 Senate Republicans continued to insist that the bill would not pass without tax breaks.
 ''No one should be mistaken,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee. ''It is House Democrats, not Senate Republicans, who are delaying passage of the minimum wage.''
 ''The easiest and quickest way to send a minimum wage bill to the president,'' Mr. Grassley said, ''would be for the House to send the Senate a bill identical to the Senate-passed bill.'' 
 In a statement, President Bush encouraged the House to support the increase and the tax cuts, saying it would ''maintain a strong and dynamic labor market'' and promote ''continued economic growth.''
 Republicans argue that Democrats agreed to similar tax breaks the last time Congress raised the minimum wage, and that they should go along with them now to offset the costs of an increase to small businesses.
 ''It's not a clean issue,'' said Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, the ranking Republican on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. ''It's a complicated issue.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ETHICS (70%) Labor; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Taxation; Small Business; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Kate Zernike

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



34 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Company Will Pay Boston After Scare Over Ads

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting from Boston, Libby Sander from Chicago and Emily Vasquez from New York.

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
Turner Broadcasting agreed Thursday to cover all the costs that Boston incurred as a result of an advertising campaign that set off fears of a possible terrorist action, the mayor's office said.
 Dot Joyce, a spokeswoman for Mayor Thomas M. Menino, said, ''The mayor has been in contact with Turner Broadcasting and Time Warner and they are willing to work out any kind of restitution in terms of costs incurred, including economic impact.''
Mr. Menino estimated that the city's emergency response cost more than half a million dollars. 
 The agreement came on a day when the two men accused of placing electronic advertisements for a cartoon around the city that some people feared were bombs pleaded not guilty, responding to the charges with grins.
 The men, Peter Berdovsky, 27, and Sean Stevens, 28, were hired by a marketing firm, Interference Inc., which had been hired by Turner Broadcasting. They placed 38 of the devices on buildings, under bridges and in other spots around the city, and each earned $300. The devices, featured flashing lights in the shape of a character from the cartoon show ''Aqua Teen Hunger Force.''
 The men, described by their lawyer as performance artists, were cheered on by supporters, many of whom said that the city had overreacted and that the men were being made scapegoats for the actions of the companies that hired them. They were arrested Wednesday night and charged with placing a hoax device in a way that causes panic, and disorderly conduct.
 But the men engendered little public sympathy when, after they were released on bond, they held a mock news conference at which Mr. Berdovsky said they wanted to discuss ''haircuts in the '70s and how they affect our lives today and how we live in the future.''
 Later Thursday night, Mr. Berdovsky, who received political asylum after coming to the United States in 1996 from Belarus, took a more serious tone. ''I regret that this incident has created such anguish and disruption for the residents and law-enforcement officers of this city,'' he said. ''I certainly never intended to do anything to frighten this community, which has welcomed and nurtured me for 10 years.''
 ABC News and The Boston Globe reported Thursday that friends of Mr. Berdovsky said he sent them an e-mail message just before 1:30 p.m. on Wednesday, saying someone at the marketing firm had just warned him not to talk about the fact that the devices were the source of the scare.
 Shirley Powell, a spokeswoman for Turner Broadcasting, said the company was unaware of the e-mail message. She referred questions to Interference Inc.. Repeated attempts to contact Interference Inc. were unsuccessful.
 Ms. Powell said the company had intended the devices, which resemble Lite-Brite boards, as unconventional advertising in 10 cities, including New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, to promote the late-night cartoon and a coming film. The light boards had been in place for two to three weeks, and there had been no complaints from other cities, she said.
 ''If at any point anybody ever thought it would create a public safety concern, we would never have done that,'' Ms. Powell said.
 Boston officials defended their actions.
 ''Maybe the media wants to take this lightly and ask foolish questions -- they can do that,'' Mayor Menino told reporters. ''But we're going to take this seriously.''
 Police Commissioner Edward F. Davis said in a note to the officers who responded during the scare, ''Some have criticized the response to these incidents without having all the facts and circumstances known to them.''
 Mr. Davis said incidents in other cities on Wednesday had heightened the concern in Boston: British authorities arrested several terror suspects, a rail station in Washington was closed because of a suspicious package, and at least four people were treated in New York City when a package at a post office let off fumes.
 In the aftermath, some Bostonians said the city's reaction might also have stemmed from the still-raw wounds of Sept. 11, 2001, when two planes were commandeered by terrorists after taking off from Logan International Airport here.
 ''There's a sense of vulnerability and maybe the alertness that goes with it,'' said Paul S. Grogan, president and chief executive of the Boston Foundation. 
 The first device discovered in Boston on Wednesday was reported by a transit worker who saw it hanging from a girder under an Interstate highway.
 Other cities made sure that the devices were being taken down Thursday. In New York, the police contacted Interference Inc., which told them that at least 20 devices had been placed in Brooklyn and Manhattan. The police found two devices, at West 33rd Street and 12th Avenue, stuck to metal panels under an overpass, and said they believed that the others were removed by passers-by.
 In Chicago, where 20 light boards were placed on transit structures and storefronts, Police Superintendent Philip J. Cline said, ''We get panicked when somebody leaves a duffel bag full of laundry on an ''L'' platform.'' City officials said they, too, would seek reimbursement for the cost of finding and removing the gadgets.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sean Stevens, left, and Peter Berdovsky, 27, were in a playful mood yesterday after their release on bond. (Photo by Bizuayehu Tesfaye/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (74%); LAWYERS (70%); ARRESTS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); BAIL (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (51%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (50%) Terrorism; Advertising and Marketing; Hoaxes; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Turner Broadcasting Co

PERSON: Pam Belluck; Peter Berdovsky; Sean Stevens

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BELARUS (79%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



35 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Little Progress Seen for Poorest After Hurricane

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
The recovery from Hurricane Katrina has stagnated for the poorest families displaced by the storm, a new study shows. Many still suffer from a significant loss of income, a higher-than-normal rate of chronic diseases like hypertension and an exponential rise in mental health problems among children.
 The study, conducted in the Gulf Coast region of Mississippi a year after the storm by the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and the Children's Health Fund, showed no improvement since a survey in Louisiana six months earlier. 
 Among the new study's findings are that more than a third of working families earning less than $20,000 a year before the storm have not regained their previous income level; almost twice as many families are dependent on public assistance; and diagnoses of depression and anxiety among children have increased fourfold. 
 School absenteeism remains high, with more than a third of children missing 10 or more days of class in April, May or June of 2006. Families with specific needs like food or household items found help far more easily than those who needed legal help, child care or mental health care.
 Among adults, the rate of hypertension diagnoses increased by more than a third after the storm in August 2005, and more than 44 percent of parents or guardians tested ''very low'' on a basic mental health test. About 13 percent said they were coping ''not very well or not at all'' with the daily demands of parenting, significantly higher than the 1.5 percent who chose that answer in the 2003 National Survey of Children's Health, which the researchers used as a benchmark. 
 Nearly 40 percent of the respondents said they had been working before the storm but were now unemployed.
 Dr. Irwin Redlener, the director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at the Mailman school and co-founder of the Children's Health Fund, said the survey results showed a lack of leadership in a relief effort marked by scattershot private efforts that resulted in an uneven distribution of help. For example, he said, the Children's Health Fund runs three mobile clinics, far from enough to meet the need.
 ''It's not a lack of money,'' Dr. Redlener said. ''It's a lack of structure; it's a lack of distribution of the resources. We have a completely dysfunctional distribution system, and a great deal of bureaucracy.''
 The survey was conducted in face-to-face interviews with families living in private trailer parks, in Federal Emergency Management Agency trailer parks, or on their own property, usually in trailers provided by FEMA. The FEMA park residents, who are often isolated by lack of transportation, were the poorest and least financially stable, and the most likely to view their environment as dangerous.
 ''For all practical purposes, these FEMA trailer parks are in fact internal refugee camps,'' Dr. Redlener said. ''Families are mired in these horrendous conditions with no sense of when this is going to be over, either in the minds of the families or in the officials responsible for them.''
 David Abramson, the study's principal investigator, identified what he called the ''poverty penalty,'' pointing out that the working poor were far more likely to have lost income since the storm. More than half of those who made less than $10,000 a year in wages or salaries lost that income, compared with 15 percent of those who made $35,000 or more before the storm. Half of those living in FEMA trailer parks had a bank account, and 16 percent had a usable credit card, according to the study.
 There were significant differences between the people studied in Mississippi and those in Louisiana. In the new study, 43 percent of the respondents were Mississippi natives, compared to more than 80 percent of the Louisianians. In the FEMA trailer sites in Mississippi, just under half those surveyed were black, compared with nearly 80 percent in Louisiana trailer parks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seventeen months after Hurricane Katrina, places like Pass Christian, Miss., still rely on temporary buildings, and many of the region's poorest people are finding little relief from mental health and money problems. (Photo by Bill Haber/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HYPERTENSION (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); WEATHER (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); PARENTS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); DEPRESSION (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); PARENTING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); TRAILER PARKS (62%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Children and Youth; Mental Health and Disorders; Hypertension; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Research; Medicine and Health; Levees; Floods

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%) Mailman School of Public Health; Columbia University; Children's Health Fund

PERSON: Shaila Dewan; Irwin (Dr) Redlener

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Gulf Coast (US); Mississippi; Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



36 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: A Bipartisan Trade Policy

 BODY:
The newest Democratic members of Congress have arrived in Washington with an important message from the voters: American workers are feeling economically insecure, and globalization and trade are heightening their fears. The White House and the new Congress still have a chance to create a bipartisan consensus on trade. They should seize it, for the good of the American economy, and for the good of the world's poorest nations, which need freer trade to pull themselves out of poverty. 
 There are some quick steps the White House and Congress should be able to agree on. To reassure workers at home, they could expand federal assistance to anyone thrown out of a job because of trade. At the same time, new tariff benefits for the least-developed countries, like Bangladesh and Cambodia, would send a positive signal to the rest of the world.
Over all, trade has been very good to the United States, which is still the world's largest exporter of goods and services. The trade liberalization measures put in place after World War II produce now, by one estimate, an additional $1 trillion in income for Americans annually, and millions of new jobs. The inexpensive foreign goods that arrive here because of free trade keep prices down. Low prices are good for consumers, and by keeping inflation and interest rates in check, they encourage economic growth and job creation. 
 Still, there is no question that the hundreds of thousands of workers who lose their jobs to trade-related dislocations each year are paying the price. The government has not done enough to take care of these displaced workers, and much of the blame lies with the economic policies of the White House and the last Congress, which was led by Republicans.
 Now that the Democrats control Congress, they can champion both free trade and the rights of American workers. They should push to improve the social safety net, especially access to health insurance. And they should promote increased retraining and wage assistance for displaced workers. 
 To win Democrats' support, the White House will have to accept some of their demands for stronger labor provisions in future trade accords. Bans on forced labor and child labor, and similar mandates, are laudable goals. But Democrats who propose minimum-wage rules have to recognize that what is low pay for Americans may pull a family out of poverty in a less-developed country. 
 The administration's proposed farm legislation looks like a decent first step toward reducing subsidies and bringing American agricultural policy into line with our trade commitments. Now, if the administration can put together a solid plan for proceeding with negotiations for the Doha round of global trade talks, Congress should renew the president's fast-track negotiating authority. But if the global talks cannot be jump-started, the White House and Congress should move ahead with bilateral agreements with Peru, Panama and Korea. 
 Democrats are right to insist that the trade agenda advance the interests of all Americans, not just large corporations. But they need to acknowledge that putting the brakes on global growth is still the surest path to losing American jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); CHILD LABOR (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (68%); AGRICULTURE (67%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (60%); WORLD WAR II (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



37 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: A Tax at the Pump

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Faith-Based Fuel Initiative'' (editorial, Jan. 30): 
 By now, no one should have faith in what our president says about anything, including higher fuel economy standards for cars.
Last year, he correctly noted that Americans are ''addicted to oil,'' but in a year nothing happened, so we should expect the same from him this year.
 In reality, Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standards are neither as quick nor as efficient a way of reducing gas consumption in America as a direct tax on gasoline at the pump would be. Across a wide spectrum, economists favor this approach, preferably with a tax that begins low but is stepped up annually to at least $1 per gallon.
 Unfortunately, across an equally wide spectrum, politicians do not have the guts to institute such a tax.Gary PetersPaso Robles, Calif., Jan. 30, 2007The writer is a professor of geography and planning at California State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); GASOLINE (88%); RELIGION (88%); FUEL TAX (88%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: GARY PETERS (66%) Gary Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



38 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: The Iraq Debacle and U.S. Power

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''The Iraq Syndrome, R.I.P.'' (column, Feb. 1), David Brooks asserts that ''the U.S. has no cultural need to retrench'' and that the American ''hegemon will live.''
 In doing so, Mr. Brooks seems to promote several dangerous neoconservative fantasies: that American might is always right; that there are no consequences to pre-emption and unilateralism; and that the nations on the receiving end of United States foreign policy have no sovereignty and no right to act in their self-interest. 
While Mr. Brooks dismisses the notion that an ''Iraq syndrome'' might take hold in this country, he doesn't mention the abundant evidence of the real consequences of a foreign policy based on arrogance, narrow ''national interest'' and callous disregard for human life: thousands dead and crippled in Iraq; a sagging ''nation-building'' effort and surge in Taliban attacks in Afghanistan; fraying international alliances; and so on. 
 If these are the fruits of ''hegemony,'' it's high time for a new foreign policy, perhaps one of cooperation and engagement.Brian PalmerBrooklyn, Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 It is discouraging to read David Brooks's column about a resurgence of American hegemony.
 The idea that America can and should be involved in the rest of the world goes without saying. That it can or should dominate the rest of the world sounds like a regurgitation of current White House doctrine.
 While American economic and military power still tops the international lists, its moral power of persuasion has declined for years. Until it lives up to its constitutional founding principles and also takes into consideration the viewpoints of others rather than behave like a ''hegemon,'' its influence will continue to decline.John RichardWeston, Conn., Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 David Brooks misses the central point of the legacy the American people will be left with after President Bush's handling of the war in Iraq.
 Instead of using post-Vietnam isolationism as the model, what we're likely to see more closely resembles the post-Watergate distrust of the presidency. 
 The White House manipulated facts to build consensus for the need to invade Iraq, an invasion that many of its supporters later admitted that they would not have supported if a more accurate slate of facts had been presented.
 The next president will not have trouble launching necessary military operations, but will be subject to far greater scrutiny when making the case for such operations. 
 Fortunately, the Constitution has provisions to allow Congress to scrutinize presidential use of military power, as if the framers understood the risks of a president who would simply do as he wished with the military.Jeremy M. PosnerNew York, Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 David Brooks mistakes opposition to both the Vietnam War and the Iraq war as isolationism. 
 We had a vested interest in maintaining a sphere of influence in Asia, but the Vietnam War ultimately worked against that goal.
 We have an even greater interest in maintaining a strong influence in the Middle East, given the political and economic roles that region plays for us.
 Being opposed to such a poorly conceived and poorly administered incursion that has damaged our influence in that region is not evidence of isolationism. It is evidence of sheer wonder at the inept foreign policy this war represents.Jonathan M. RosenAlbany, Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 Equating nonaggression with a lack of confidence? I am a ''dove,'' because I am confident. I don't have to spread ''Americanism'' out of fear that someone will take away my freedom.Kevin BrownSan Francisco, Feb. 1, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lewis Scott) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); TALIBAN (72%); TERRORISM (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) United States International Relations; Election Issues; Terrorism; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Brian Palmer; John Richard; Jeremy M Posner; Jonathan M Rosen; Kevin (Letter Writer) Brown; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



39 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Report Showing Strong Spending Gives Shares a Lift

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks climbed for a third consecutive day yesterday as an already buoyant Wall Street embraced robust consumer spending figures and largely overcame disappointment in Google's profit report. Both the Dow Jones industrials and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies closed at highs.
 The gains followed Wall Street's best day of the year on Wednesday, when it advanced sharply after the Federal Reserve said that the economy remained solid and that inflation was mostly in check. 
''It seems to me the Fed is on hold for the foreseeable future, and stocks are taking solace in that,'' said Brian Levitt, corporate economist for OppenheimerFunds Inc.
 The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 51.99 points, to 12,673.68, the blue chip average's 27th record close since the start of October and well above the record of 12,621.77 set on Jan. 24. 
 Broader stock indicators also showed strong gains. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.70 points, to 1,445.94, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 4.45 points, at 2,468.38.
 The Russell 2000 rose 7.43, to 807.77. The index first broke 800 on Wednesday.
 While yesterday's gains were smaller than Wednesday's, the sessions resembled the second half of 2006, when investors appeared more at ease with back-to-back days of sizable increases. In 2007, run-ups have often been followed by days of more modest rises or even pullbacks. 
 Light crude settled down 84 cents, at $57.30 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Economic data continued to play a big role in trading, as it has all week. As expected, consumer spending in December showed its biggest increase in five months, rising 0.7 percent.
 In other economic news, the Labor Department reported that the number of newly laid-off workers seeking unemployment benefits fell by 20,000 last week, to 307,000. The figure pushed the four-week average for claims to the lowest level in a year. The reading also bolstered investor confidence for the department's January unemployment report, which is due today.
 Because consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of economic activity, Wall Street tried to look past the Institute for Supply Management's January reading on the manufacturing sector. The index fell to 49.3, from 51.4 in December. Most economists had expected a figure above 50. Readings below 50 signal contraction in United States manufacturing.
 Google posted a sharp increase in profit, though investors used to outsize gains were not impressed. The stock was off $19.75, at $481.75.
 Exxon Mobil turned in earnings of $39.5 billion for 2006, the largest ever for an American company, even as fourth-quarter profit slipped 4 percent. Revenue rose to $377.6 billion for the year, surpassing the record $370.7 billion the company reported in 2005. Exxon rose 98 cents, to $75.08.
 Archer Daniels Midland rose $3.47, to $35.47, after earnings at the company increased 20 percent amid a jump in profit from processing corn.
 ON Semiconductor jumped $1.36, to $9.72, after the company posted a hefty increase in fourth-quarter profit.
 Comcast fell $1.43, to $42.92, after its fourth-quarter profit came up short of Wall Street's forecast. Profit nearly tripled as revenue rose 30 percent.
 Boeing's shares reached a record high of $92.24 in intraday trading before finishing up $1.49, at $91.05; the company reported strong results on Wednesday.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 7/32, to 98 11/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.83 percent, from 4.81 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since October 2006. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (70%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (70%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (70%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



40 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Up the Most in 5 Months

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer spending rose in December by the most in five months, helping the economy weather a slump in manufacturing that extended into 2007.
 Purchases rose 0.7 percent after a 0.5 percent increase in November, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Separately, the Institute for Supply Management said its factory index unexpectedly fell last month to the lowest level since April 2003. A measure of housing demand rose by the most in almost three years. 
The figures are consistent with the Federal Reserve's forecast of moderate economic growth. The spending report also showed that inflation stabilized, which may allow policy makers to keep interest rates unchanged through June.
 ''It looks like we are getting through these rough times pretty comfortably,'' said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International in New York.
 The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index dropped to 49.3, from a reading of 51.4 in December. Readings less than 50 indicate contraction. The National Association of Realtors said contracts to buy previously owned homes rose 4.9 percent in December.
 The housing figures indicate improvement in the real estate market, which along with manufacturing had contributed to a slowdown in the second half of last year. At the same time, a robust labor market is driving wages and sustaining spending. 
 A separate report from the Labor Department showed that initial jobless claims fell more than forecast last week. The number of people filing first-time claims for unemployment insurance declined by 20,000, to 307,000. Economists had forecast 315,000.
 The Commerce Department's report showed that incomes increased 0.5 percent in December, the most in three months. The government's measure of prices tied to spending and excluding food and energy, the Fed's preferred gauge, rose 0.1 percent, after showing no change in November.
 Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent rise in core inflation from a month earlier, and a 2.3 percent gain compared with December 2005, according to the Bloomberg survey.
 The manufacturing report showed that factories cut production as growth in orders slowed, and that inventories dropped to the lowest level since February 2002.
 The decline in inventories suggests manufacturing ''is poised for stronger growth,'' John Ryding, chief United States economist at Bear Stearns, said in an interview. ''There's a lot more to this economy than housing and cars, and that's what the Fed has to keep its eye on.''
 Consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the economy, increased at an annual rate of 4.4 percent last quarter, compared with a 2.8 percent pace in the third quarter. That allowed the economy to grow at a 3.5 percent rate, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.
 Because the increase in spending was more than the gain in incomes, the savings rate worsened to minus 1.2 percent, from minus 1 percent the previous month. A negative rate suggests consumers are dipping into savings to maintain spending. That would be the lowest savings rate since the 1930s.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Personal Income''Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Personal Income and SpendingIncomeDEC.: $11.10CHANGE FROM NOV.: +0.5%ConsumptionDEC.: 9.50CHANGE FROM NOV.: +0.7(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Production; Housing; Sales; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%) Commerce Department; Institute for Supply Management; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



41 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Court Rejects Tax Shelter Once Sold By KPMG

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A federal judge in Texas has ruled that a widely used aggressive tax shelter was based on fake bank loans and is therefore not legitimate, giving an unexpected boost to federal prosecutors overseeing a widening criminal investigation into tax shelters.
 The shelter, known as Blips, plays a central role in the criminal inquiry of Deutsche Bank over questionable tax shelters and in the pending criminal trial in federal court in Manhattan of 16 former employees of the accounting firm KPMG and two outsiders. 
The civil ruling on Tuesday by Judge T. John Ward of Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Texas will probably add ammunition to Manhattan prosecutors' arguments that Deutsche Bank acted improperly by providing fake loans for Blips and similar shelters. Judge Ware's is the first major civil ruling on the legitimacy of Blips, or bond-linked issue premium structure.
 It is also likely to bolster prosecutors' case against certain KPMG defendants who are also named in the judge's ruling. They are John Larson, Robert Pfaff and David Amir Makov, all former employees of an investment firm called Presidio Advisory Services, now defunct. According to previously disclosed internal Deutsche Bank documents, Blips was created and sold primarily by Deutsche Bank, KPMG and Presidio. 
 Judge Ward's ruling is also notable in that it absolves of any guilt two wealthy Texas investors who bought Blips. The investors were Harold W. Nix and C. Cary Patterson, two lawyers on a legal team that earned sizable fees for winning a $17 billion tobacco settlement for Texas in 1998. 
 Mr. Nix and Mr. Patterson sued the Internal Revenue Service after it disallowed their claims for around $25 million each in losses stemming from Blips on their federal tax returns from 2000 through 2002. 
 Judge Ward ruled that both investors must pay the taxes they owe, but that they were not liable for multimillion-dollar penalties stemming from their use of Blips. 
 Judge Ward ruled that Mr. Nix and Mr. Patterson genuinely thought that what they were making a legitimate investment, that they learned only later of the tax benefits and that they reasonably relied upon the advice and opinions of their accountants and lawyers, including George A. Hrdlicka, a prominent Houston lawyer who told them that Blips was ''above the board.''
 An I.R.S. spokesman, Terry Lemons, said, ''We're reviewing the decision.'' 
 Blips, one of the most widely used aggressive shelters of the late 1990s through recent years, was sold to wealthy investors as a three-year, seven-stage investment that revolved around bank loans and trading of foreign currencies and securities. 
 But Judge Ward, echoing arguments made by Manhattan prosecutors pursuing Deutsche Bank and the KPMG group, found that Blips was not a real investment at all, that its loans were fake and that it had no economic substance or genuine business purpose -- hallmarks of a bogus tax shelter.
 Instead, investors in Blips always got out of the deals after around 60 days and shifted artificial losses from the fake loans to partnerships that were then used to improperly claim tax deductions. 
 The judge's ruling may also draw yet more companies into the widening criminal investigation, because it details how NatWest, a British bank now owned by Royal Bank of Scotland, knowingly provided the fake loans for Mr. Nix's and Mr. Patterson's shelters. 
 ''NatWest and Presidio viewed the loan transactions as involving zero credit risks,'' Judge Ward wrote. ''In truth, NatWest did not make any loans.'' NatWest, which is headquartered in London, could not be reached immediately for comment.
 Another German bank, HVB Group, reached a $29 million deferred-prosecution agreement with the Justice Department in February 2006 after admitting to criminal wrongdoing in providing fake loans for Blips and other aggressive shelters. KPMG also admitted to criminal wrongdoing with Blips and three other shelters in its $456 million deferred-prosecution agreement in mid-2005. 
 In an earlier procedural decision last July, Judge Ward ruled that the I.R.S. had merely overstepped its authority when it retroactively applied tougher Treasury Department rules to liabilities like those used in Blips. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); JUDGES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); CURRENCIES (67%) Taxation; Tax Evasion; Decisions and Verdicts; Frauds and Swindling; Frauds and Swindling; Tax Shelters; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: KPMG (95%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank Ag; Kpmg

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: JOHN LARSON (74%) T John (Judge) Ward

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



42 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Signals Desire to Keep Starrett City Affordable to the Middle Class

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Tenants' groups girding for a fight over the sale of Starrett City, the sprawling low- and middle-income housing complex on the south shore of Brooklyn, have a powerful new ally: Gov. Eliot Spitzer.
 State officials say that the new governor, who campaigned in part on the need to preserve and expand the city's stock of housing for working and middle-class New Yorkers, wants Starrett City to remain pretty much what it is today, an economically and racially mixed housing complex that is successful.
Affordable housing has emerged as a thorny political issue with the recent $5.4-billion sale of two middle-class complexes, Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan, and skyrocketing rents across the city. 
 Renamed Spring Creek Towers in 2002, Starrett City is the largest federally subsidized rental project in the country and continues to be widely known by its original name.
 Bids are due on Monday, with the longtime owners hoping to fetch more than $1 billion for the 46 brick towers and 5,881 apartments that are scattered across 140 acres bound by Canarsie, East New York and Jamaica Bay. The sale has been cloaked in secrecy and a strict confidentiality agreement that prohibits prospective buyers from talking to tenants, or to state and city officials.
 ''Starrett City is ground zero for gentrification,'' said Bertha Lewis, executive director of New York Acorn, a community organizing group that has been working with the local tenants' association. The new owner ''could wipe out the most successful and diverse affordable housing complex in the country.''
 The ownership group, led by Disque Dean, has told tenants that nothing will change immediately. The owners say they have a fiduciary duty to get the highest price, but insisted that the buyer would not suddenly transform the complex and that most tenants would continue to qualify for rent subsidies.
 But tenants and many local politicians fear that a billion-dollar price tag will prompt any new owner to drop out of the state's Mitchell-Lama program for middle-class tenants and raise rents, displacing hundreds of tenants, even if many residents would initially be eligible for federal rent vouchers. Tenants also fear that in a push to make a profit, a new owner would cut services at Starrett City, whose buildings and landscaped grounds are well maintained.
 ''One thing we're striving for is to be able to keep rents in an area where we can handle it,'' said the president of the Starrett tenants' association, Marie Purnell, whose balcony has a view of the bay. ''We have a mixture of Pakistanis, Russian Jews, Haitians, Italians and American blacks. My concern is that it continue the way it is. At 76, I want to die here.''
 Councilman Charles Barron vowed that Starrett City would not be gentrified: ''There will be no Stuyvesant Town at Starrett City. It's just not going to happen.''
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, Christine Anderson, said he had serious concerns that the complex would no longer be affordable.
 ''During the campaign,'' she said, ''he talked extensively about the need to preserve and improve the affordable housing we have, as well as the need to create even more affordable housing. He is willing to commit state resources, especially where the owners share our goal to protect long-term affordability.''
 State officials have some power over what happens. They hold Starrett's $234.4 million interest-free mortgage and have the power to approve or reject any new owner. Development of vacant land on the site would require state and city approvals. One city official said that property taxes would increase by at least $12 million if the complex left the Mitchell-Lama program.
 On Wednesday, small groups of Starrett City residents and members of Acorn took their message to the Manhattan offices of five potential bidders: the Related Companies, Apollo Real Estate Advisors, Tishman Speyer Properties, Westbrook and Aimco. They did not get past the front desks, although some of the companies indicated that they would not be bidders after all. A rally is planned for tomorrow and is expected to attract hundreds of tenants and many politicians, including City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn.
 According to real estate executives familiar with the sale, 12 bidders are registered. At least one, Berkshire L.L.C., has clashed with tenants' groups at another Brooklyn complex. Another bidder said he would make an offer for the property that is far less than the $1.2 billion the seller expects. 
 The sale of Starrett City has not generated the same frenzy among real estate investors as the bidding for Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, where rents for three-quarters of the apartments were one-third to one-half of market rates. Rents at Starrett City, which are mostly subsidized by the government, may be close to market levels, real estate experts said.
 The complex was envisioned as a subsidized middle-class complex when it opened in 1975. But it had difficulty attracting enough tenants and over time developed a patchwork quilt of state and federal subsidies for low-, moderate- and middle-income tenants. The current owner acknowledged that a new owner would probably buy out of the Mitchell-Lama program.
 ''We are convinced that Starrett City will continue to be an affordable, subsidized development with over 90 percent of the tenants qualified for rent subsidies,'' said Martin J. McLaughlin, a spokesman for the owner, Starrett City Associates.
 Despite those assurances, state and city housing officials say that current tenants would be affected almost from the beginning. It is unclear whether there are enough federal rent vouchers available. More than 1,000 tenants whose spouses have died, or whose children have grown and moved out, may have to move to smaller apartments or pay higher rents. It is unlikely there are enough vacant one-bedroom apartments for them. 
 Officials said that an additional 1,567 tenants would face $200-a-month rent increases, even if they received vouchers, or would fail to qualify for them because their income exceeded the federal guidelines.
 Jeannette Reyes, 39, has lived at Starrett City for 14 years, after moving from a building in East New York ''that never had heat or hot water,'' she said. Her older daughter recently graduated from the University of Tampa with the help of a Starrett City scholarship.
 ''I'm hoping to provide a better future for the little one here,'' she said, referring to her 2-year-old daughter bundled up in a stroller on a cold winter afternoon. ''I could only do that here in Starrett.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture yesterday with an article about the corruption trial of Clarence Norman Jr. carried an erroneous credit in some copies. The photographer was Jeremy M. Lange, not Chang W. Lee.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICS (75%); CITIES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Housing; Starrett City Housing Development (Brooklyn); Renting and Leasing; Mitchell-Lama Projects

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Charles V Bagli; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



43 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 876 words

PERSON: Dr. Richard F. Daines

HEADLINE: New Man in the Hot Seat of State Health Commissioner

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
THE doctor's office at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where he has been chief executive since 2002 but has abruptly forsaken to become state health commissioner in the Spitzer administration, looks pale and lifeless, with bare hooks on the beige walls where framed diplomas and memorabilia lately hung. 
 A history buff, Dr. Richard F. Daines collects medical artifacts. He's going to miss the leather-bound logbook that describes, in longhand, the admission histories of Roosevelt Hospital's patients dating back to its first tuberculosis fatality in 1858. The ledger belongs to the hospital, and in a few hours he will be turning it in, along with his keys and beeper. Such is career progress. St. Luke's will thrive without him. Without a shake-up, health care in New York State will not thrive, he predicts. 
''A nominal Republican in a Democratic administration doesn't seem to be of interest to anybody,'' he says about crossing party lines. ''Health care issues don't break down very neatly along partisan lines. And shouldn't.'' 
 Which is why his health reform hero is Hillary Rodham Clinton. Were he writing a book about the nation's health care crisis, his first chapter would start with her misbegotten efforts at solving it in 1993. Her tenacity in continuing to seek a solution is something he hopes, by way of his new post, to be part of. 
 ''Particularly here in New York, we have a crisis of affordability and access where rather than seeing health care as a good thing, it becomes a burden to the economy,'' says Dr. Daines, an eager-beaver policymaker who, like his new boss, Gov. Eliot Spitzer, perceives the state's system as payout-centric, not patient-centric. ''The state's efforts have to focus on what is best for patients, and we will bring the institutions into alignment with patients rather than the other way around.'' 
 On his desk, which has been stripped of its Rolodex and the usual administrative accouterments, rests a sumptuously wrapped package: another going-away present. The doctor has been too busy to open it and refuses, when pressed, to unwrap it in front of an audience lest it contain ''a gag gift.'' To avoid temptation, he stows it in a corner and takes its place atop the bare desk.
 HE himself is very much in the pink. Make that ruddy. Dr. Daines, whose appointment happened in a hurry last month, still has the healthy vestiges of the powder-hound tan he acquired on a ski trip to Jackson Hole, Wyo., and Snow Basin in his native Utah.
 A skier since age 9, he owns up to black diamond proficiency and, at 55, keeps up with his three children, all in their 20s. His favorite tough run, at Alta, is one of those ski-at-your-own-risk propositions. ''The High Rustler, and it's not on the maps,'' he says. ''It's steep.'' 
 Does Dr. Daines consider himself an on-the-slopes daredevil? Count him out; he's never so much as stubbed a toe skiing. 
 What about going out on a limb for health care reform -- the reason Governor Spitzer, whose proposed budget includes a bold $1.2 billion in health care cuts, $1 billion of it from the state's bloated Medicaid spending, turned to him? Count him in.
 ''Our Medicaid is the most expensive in the country, not by a small degree but by a large degree,'' he says. ''In some ways, we're oddballs on the medical scene. This state needs to put its Medicaid money in the places where Medicaid patients are treated.''
 The proposed overhaul of the Medicaid reimbursement system, as well as the closing of nine hospitals (five of them in New York City) and roughly 48 reconfigurations and mergers recommended by the 2006 Berger Commission report, will fall to Dr. Daines. He says he anticipates an ''adversarial'' reception from health care unions and legislators to whom they have close ties. Lawsuits from ''victims'' of the Berger Commission, which received support from the Legislature as well as from Governor Spitzer and former Gov. George E. Pataki, are already in the works. 
 ''There is no moratorium on change, and we will change,'' Dr. Daines says. ''We will either do so cooperatively and the right way, by consensus, or else things will explode and we will watch where the pieces land. I'm a planning person, and the Berger plan is a good plan. But I understand why good and loyal employees and good and loyal patients would raise a protest about having their hospitals closed. This is New York: people have lawyers, and everybody gets their day in court.'' 
 The son of an anesthesiologist and a homemaker, Dr. Daines grew up in Stanfordville, Utah, where his father served two terms as mayor. During college, Dr. Daines, an internist, spent two years in Bolivia as a missionary for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints; to this day, he teaches Sunday school. He received his medical degree from Cornell in 1978 and ran the intensive care unit at St. Barnabas Hospital in the South Bronx, a center of activity in the AIDS and crack epidemics. He lives on the East Side of Manhattan with his wife, Linda, a managing director at Goldman Sachs. They also own a house in Dutchess County, closer to his new office in Albany, where, he says, ''it feels a little like the first days of the New Deal; we're fumbling our way toward some real solutions.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Public Lives column on Friday, about Dr. Richard F. Daines, the incoming New York State health commissioner and the former chief executive at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, misidentified his hometown. He grew up in Logan, Utah; there is no Stanfordville in Utah. (Dr. Daines and his wife own a second home in Stanfordville, N.Y., a community in northern Dutchess County.) The article also misidentified the hospital whose logbook, with admission histories dating back to 1858, Dr. Daines has kept in his office. It is St. Luke's Hospital, the predecessor to St. Luke's-Roosevelt; it is not Roosevelt Hospital.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Richard F. Daines (Photo by Daniel Barry for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HISTORY (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (70%); BUDGETS (68%); SKIING (62%) Medicine and Health; Biographical Information; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Health Department (NYS)

HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (77%) Robin Finn; Richard F (Dr) Daines

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; United States

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



44 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Albany Raises State Limit On Donations To Candidates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
New York, which already allows people to contribute more money to candidates for statewide office than any other state that limits contributions, is about to allow people to donate even more: more than $55,000 to each candidate, a nearly 10 percent increase. 
 The higher limits, which take effect next week, a month after Gov. Eliot Spitzer called for lowering them in his first address to the Legislature, are going up because of a state law that calls for raising them every four years based on inflation.
New York State's limits are already high compared with limits at the federal level or local levels. Individuals may contribute only $4,600 to presidential candidates, and up to $4,950 for candidates running for mayor of New York City.
 ''Enough is enough,'' said Rachel Leon, the executive director of Common Cause New York, a group that tracks the influence of money in politics. ''Right now the sky's the limit with New York's campaign contributions, and the public has had it.''
 The state's campaign finance laws are so riddled with loopholes and so laxly enforced that civic groups warn that determined people can make virtually unlimited contributions. In the budget Governor Spitzer proposed this week, though, he calls for adding 21 new positions at the Board of Elections to strengthen its enforcement.
 Mr. Spitzer, who said that from now on he would accept only contributions of less than $10,000, is trying to negotiate more restrictive campaign finance laws with the Legislature.
 Officials at the Board of Elections said that they had calculated the new contribution limits, but that they would not make them public until next week. 
 Some civic organizations did their own calculations, however. They predicted that the limits from individuals to statewide candidates would rise to more than $55,000 from the current $50,100, and that the new law would allow donations of more than $94,000 to political parties, up from the current $84,400 limit. 
 A report issued last summer by the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law found that New York's old limits to statewide candidates were already the highest of the 37 states that limit contributions.
 Mark Dunlea, an associate director of the Hunger Action Network, a coalition of emergency food programs, observed that politicians had made sure that their campaign contribution limits would rise with inflation, but that they made no such provision for welfare grants for poor children and their parents, which he said have not gone up in 16 years. 
 He said that the voices of large contributors drown out the voice of regular people in Albany. 
 ''Poor people just do not get their voices heard at the State Capitol,'' he said. ''You go in to try to meet with a state legislator, you're told that he or she is not available -- would you be willing to meet with an intern who has been on the job for three weeks? And then, as you're meeting with the intern, somebody with a three-piece suit comes in, and magically the state legislator appears, and ushers them into the back room.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CHILDREN (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Finances; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (69%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (69%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



45 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Pact With Iran On Gas Sales Is Possible, Putin Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
Even as the United States intensifies its efforts to isolate Iran, President Vladimir V. Putin said Thursday that Russia would consider OPEC-like cooperation with Tehran on sales of natural gas. He stopped short of endorsing price fixing, however, saying he was concerned only with ensuring stable supplies for consuming nations. 
 Mr. Putin reiterated Russia's opposition to Iran acquiring nuclear weapons, but his remarks underscored a widening rift with the United States and its allies over how to force Tehran to comply with United Nations Security Council resolutions. 
 ''We think that the people of Iran should have access to modern technologies, including nuclear ones,'' he said, adding that ''they should choose a variant that will guarantee Iran access to nuclear energy'' while complying with their commitment not to build weapons under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 Mr. Putin's remarks were delivered as part of his annual winter news conference, an affair that offers journalists an exhaustive, unconstrained opportunity to press him on the issues of the day. He answered 66 questions over the course of three and a half hours, largely without the rancor or prickly defensiveness that has characterized previous sessions.
 In the realm of foreign affairs, he denied that Russia used its natural resources as a political tool, and he expressed new opposition to the expansion of NATO, though mildly. He criticized American negotiations to construct components of a national missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic, even as he confidently said Russia now possessed the missiles to thwart such defenses.
 He also made his most extensive remarks on the poisoning of Alexander V. Litvinenko, the former secret service officer who died of radioactive poisoning in London in November and accused Mr. Putin himself in a deathbed statement.
 He dismissed Mr. Litvinenko as a low-level officer in the ''convoy troops'' who ''did not protect any secrets'' and who had been fired after being convicted of abusing his office by beating detainees.
 ''Whatever he could say negatively about his service, he said it a long time ago,'' he said, suggesting that Mr. Litvinenko's repeated accusations of nefarious activities by Russia's secret services were baseless inventions. The question of his murderer, he said, was a matter for investigators, but he dismissed accusations by some of his own aides that Mr. Putin's enemies had killed Mr. Litvinenko in an attempt to discredit the Kremlin. ''I do not believe in conspiracy theories,'' he said.
 On issues at home, he vowed that Russia would hold democratic elections for Parliament in December and for his successor when he steps down in 2008, though he remained coy about whom, if anyone, he would support. Exuding confidence, he touted the country's economic growth and several times emphasized its progress toward democracy, a picture starkly at odds with accusations of his critics, here and abroad, that he had steadily eroded basic freedoms.
 He mentioned the killing of Paul Klebnikov, the Russian-American editor of the local edition of Forbes, saying he agreed with a statement that the journalist, shot to death in 2004, had died fighting ''for a democratic Russia.'' He also offered respect, if not praise exactly, for another slain journalist, Anna Politkovskaya, who was killed in October. He said she had ''criticized the authorities fairly acutely, which is good.''
 Mr. Putin also sidestepped a question about a comment made this week by Mayor Yuri M. Luzhkov of Moscow that a gay rights parade proposed by activists would have been ''a satanic event.'' 
 Mr. Putin said his attitude toward gay men and lesbians involved his concern about Russia's declining population, suggesting that those who did not bear children were not helping the problem.
 ''Having said that,'' he went on, ''I respect and will respect the freedoms of all shades of people, of all shades of those freedoms.''
 On Iran, Russia has held out for a negotiated compromise, a position at odds with the Bush administration's efforts to turn Iran's leadership into political and economic pariahs.
 Mr. Putin's senior aide, Igor S. Ivanov, visited Iran last week and discussed the nuclear issue, as well as potential energy cooperation with Iran, which has reserves of natural gas second only to Russia's. Mr. Putin said he hoped the visit would ''remove any suspicions on the international community about Iran's alleged plans to build nuclear weapons.''
 Mr. Putin also endorsed an idea floated last week by the atomic energy agency's director, Mohamed ElBaradei, to suspend sanctions if Iran agreed to a suspension of uranium enrichment.
 During Mr. Ivanov's visit, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was quoted by news agencies as saying Russia and Iran could establish ''an organization of gas cooperation like OPEC.'' Mr. Putin responded by calling it ''an interesting idea.''
 He went on to say that Russia opposed creating a price-setting cartel -- something that European and other countries fear -- but that ''to coordinate our activities would be worthwhile, with an eye to the solution of the main goal of unconditionally and securely supplying the main consumers of energy resources.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin covered foreign and domestic issues in a Kremlin news conference yesterday. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POISONINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE FIXING (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); MURDER (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); DISMISSALS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%) United States International Relations; Gas (Fuel); Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%) Steven Lee Myers; George W (Pres) Bush; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Igor S (Min) Ivanov

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN (90%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Iran; Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



46 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Iran Leader Calls Nuclear Sanctions Ineffective

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, under increasing criticism at home, said Thursday that his nation was becoming a superpower and that the United Nations sanctions would not deter it from pursuing its nuclear program. 
 ''We are rapidly becoming a superpower,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad told reporters after laying flowers on the tomb of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini on the 28th anniversary of the revolution he led in 1979.
''Our strength does not come from military weapons or an economic capability,'' the ISNA news agency quoted him as saying. ''Our power comes from our capability to influence the hearts and souls of people, and this scares them,'' he added, referring to the West. 
 ''That's why they are using psychological warfare and impose sanctions. But the language of sanctions belongs to the past.''
 He made no reference to contradictory remarks this week by President Jacques Chirac of France about whether it would be acceptable for Iran to have a nuclear program. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad spoke as some conservatives in Iran joined moderates to warn that his dismissiveness toward sanctions by the United Nations Security Council over Iran's nuclear program could have dangerous consequences. The Security Council resolution, passed on Dec. 23, prohibits trade in goods and technology related to Iran's nuclear program. The measure is aimed at curbing Iran's uranium enrichment program, which Iran says is for peaceful purposes but the United States and some European countries contend is for making nuclear weapons.
 The recent criticism of Mr. Ahmadinejad has led to speculation that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme religious leader who has the ultimate authority on all state matters, is allowing such talk in an effort to contain him.
 In his only reference to the resolution, Ayatollah Khamenei said Iran would not give up its right to a nuclear program. 
 Dozens of moderate politicians and several conservatives gathered last week at the office of Mehdi Karroubi, a former speaker of Parliament, to discuss their concerns over the future of Iran. 
 ''Those who don't worry are either unaware of what is happening'' or showing that they lack wisdom, said Ismail Gerami Moghadam, a member of Parliament who was at the meeting, the independent daily Etemad Melli reported.
 The state-run daily Keyhan joined critics of Mr. Ahmadinejad last week and said ''any threat should be taken seriously.'' The newspaper, which had repeatedly suggested that Iran withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and proceed with its nuclear program, would be expected to support the president's position.
 On Thursday in Vienna, headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency, diplomats said Iran had begun installing centrifuges at its uranium enrichment plant at Natanz, Agence France-Presse reported. Iran has said that it plans to install 3,000 of the machines at Natanz soon. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has promised an announcement on the nuclear program during the 10-day anniversary celebration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); CENTRIFUGES (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); RELIGION (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%); ALI KHAMENEI (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%) Nazila Fathi; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Ali (Ayatollah) Khamenei

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



47 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks Big Medicare and Medicaid Saving, but Faces Hard Fight

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1 

 BODY:
President Bush will ask Congress in his budget next week to squeeze more than $70 billion of savings from Medicare and Medicaid over the next five years, administration officials and health care lobbyists said Thursday.
 The proposals, part of a White House plan to balance the budget by 2012, set the stage for a battle with Congress over entitlement spending. Even some administration officials say they cannot imagine approval of such large cutbacks in a Congress now controlled by Democrats.
Mr. Bush is also expected to propose changes in the Children's Health Insurance Program to sharpen its focus on low-income families. The changes could reduce federal payments to states that cover children with family incomes exceeding twice the poverty level. Under federal guidelines, a family of four is considered poor if its annual income is less than $20,650. 
 The child health proposal, like those for Medicare and Medicaid, is likely to touch off a fight on Capitol Hill. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and other Democrats are seeking major expansions of the children's health program, though they have not said how they would pay for the changes.
 One measure of the political difficulty facing the president's plan for Medicare and Medicaid is that he sought $20 billion less in savings from the two programs last year, when Republicans controlled Congress, and few of those proposals were adopted. 
 Representative Charles B. Rangel, the New York Democrat who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, said Thursday: ''There is a large area for potential compromise and agreement, but with these latest Medicare proposals, the president is just asking for controversy. He still acts as if Republicans were in complete control and Democrats had lost the election.''
 Mr. Bush has repeatedly said that Medicare has serious long-term financial problems, and many experts share his concern.
 ''If you want to balance the budget eventually and you do not want tax increases,'' said Joseph R. Antos, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, ''you have no choice but to propose substantial reductions in Medicare. The president's budget is an opening bid, the start of negotiations with Democrats over health care and other programs.''
 Taken together, Medicare and Medicaid cover more than one in four Americans. Federal spending for the two programs totaled $554 billion last year, or about 21 percent of all federal spending -- a little more than Social Security. With no change in existing law, spending on the two health programs is expected to rise at a brisk pace, averaging more than 7 percent a year in the next decade.
 Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the senior Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, said: ''The current rate of growth in Medicare, fueled by rising health costs and an aging population, is unsustainable. If Congress does not undertake sensible reforms soon, the system will be swamped as the baby boom generation begins to retire. Taxes will rise, benefits will be cut, and the entire economy will suffer.''
 Under the president's plan, some Medicare beneficiaries would shoulder added costs. At present, about 4 percent of the 43 million beneficiaries must pay more than the standard monthly premium -- it is $93.50 this year -- because they have high incomes: more than $80,000 for individuals and $160,000 for married couples. The president's budget would require more people to pay the higher premiums, but administration officials would not immediately provide details.
 Most of the proposed savings, however, would come from health care providers. Mr. Bush is expected to propose freezing Medicare payments to home health agencies and reducing the inflation allowance paid to hospitals, nursing homes and other providers.
 Hospitals plan to fight the president with lobbying and advertising. ''Two-thirds of hospitals already lose money treating Medicare beneficiaries,'' said Richard J. Pollack, executive vice president of the American Hospital Association.
 The president's budget also assumes that Medicare payments to doctors will be cut at least 8 percent next year, as provided under a formula in existing law. 
 Administration officials said Mr. Bush would not try to curb payments to private managed care plans, which currently enroll more than eight million Medicare beneficiaries. But many Democrats in Congress want to do so, because, they maintain, Medicare overpays the plans, which they see as a step toward privatizing the program. 
 Insurance companies are mobilizing beneficiaries to lobby against any cuts in Medicare payments to private plans. Mohit M. Ghose, a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, said, ''Any cuts would take away benefits from millions of low-income people and members of minority groups, who enroll in private plans because they cannot afford the high out-of-pocket costs in the traditional Medicare program.''Budget Asks Rise in Pell Grants
 The president's budget will propose raising the maximum Pell grant -- the federal grant for low- and middle-income students to attend college -- to $4,600, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings announced Thursday.
 The announcement followed by only a day the Democratic-controlled House's passage of a $260 increase in the current maximum grant, to $4,310, under a catchall spending bill needed to address budget matters remaining from last year.
 Ms. Spellings's announcement suggests that the administration will try to emphasize access to education, an issue that Democrats have seized upon as the cost and debt burden of higher education continue to rise. Democrats have already proposed legislation in the Senate that, exceeding the administration's plan, calls for an increase to $5,100. 
 The last substantial increase was in 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Government Printing Office yesterday began publishing President Bush's budget for the 2008 fiscal year, to be released next week. (Photo by Manuel Balce Ceneta/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S HEALTH (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); AGING TRENDS (63%); AGING (60%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Medicare; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Children and Youth; States (US); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Families and Family Life; Hospitals; Doctors; Home Health Care

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (59%) Children's Health Insurance Program

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIM MCCRERY (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007



48 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Duracell Worker Stole Trade Secrets

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Feb. 2 

 BODY:
A former Duracell employee pleaded guilty Friday in Federal District Court to stealing trade secrets from the company, the authorities said. 
 Prosecutors said the former employee, Edward R. Grande, 48, a cell development technologist from Seymour, Conn., copied and downloaded computer research last year about Duracell's AA batteries.
Mr. Grande then sent the information to two Duracell competitors, prosecutors said. Neither of Duracell's competitors had requested or solicited Duracell's trade secret information, and both of the rivals sent the information back to Duracell.
 Duracell, a unit of Procter & Gamble, generates more than $1 billion in revenue from the sale of AA batteries.
 Sentencing is scheduled for April 23. 
 ''The theft of trade secrets is a serious crime that has the potential to cause significant economic damage to the owners of trade secrets and their shareholders,'' the United States attorney for the district of Connecticut, Kevin O'Connor, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SECRETS LAW (91%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); LARCENY & THEFT (85%); LAWYERS (75%); ESPIONAGE (73%); SENTENCING (73%); ETHICS (71%) Batteries; Industrial Espionage; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Duracell International Inc

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: Edward R Grande

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



49 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Envy, Anxiety, Secrecy, Taboos: The Subject Must Be Money

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I'M as guilty as the next person. I've sat around with my pals wondering how a neighbor, a colleague, or, yes, a good friend, can possibly afford to put that huge addition on their house. Or take those many overseas vacations. Or pay for the private schools and the fancy summer camps and the second home.
 Some people we just write off as trust fund babies or hedge fund zillionaires or lucky dogs who got into the stock market at the right time and cashed out.
But others are more perplexing. They look like us. They seem to come from roughly the same backgrounds as us. But they sure don't act like us. 
 I don't exactly envy them; I'm fairly satisfied with our lives. Oh, occasionally I wish we had that house on Martha's Vineyard, or didn't have to choose between remodeling the bathroom or taking a summer trip, but generally I know how fortunate we are.
 But I do sometimes burn with curiosity about how they do it. And wish that talking about money was not so fraught in this society so I could just ask them to explain it.
 For years, economists, academics and psychologists have written about how money is the last taboo. It has become a virtual cliche to say that people would rather talk about their sex lives or child abuse than their finances.
 Elissa Schappell was a co-editor, with Jenny Offill, of an anthology called ''Money Changes Everything'' (Doubleday, 2007), a compilation by 22 writers, many fairly well known, discussing how money, whether it disappeared over generations or arrived in a sudden windfall, affected their lives. But the contributors had to write under their own names and some could not do it.
 ''We lost a good one,'' Ms. Schappell said. ''He had written about his drug addiction, about a nervous breakdown, but he would not write about money.''
 That instinct, however, might be beginning to change. The inability to address issues of money -- and the envy it causes -- is creating more financial and psychological distress than we can imagine, psychologists and social scientists say. We overspend to keep up with neighbors and friends; take jobs we're not happy at to keep up a lifestyle we think we should have; and compulsively watch television shows that flaunt multimillion-dollar homes and exotic vacations.
 Although grappling with issues of money is certainly not solely an American experience, the paradoxical way we treat it is peculiarly our own and stems from our contradictory history, said Dalton Conley, chairman of the sociology department at New York University.
 ''One string is consumption, social status and competition,'' Professor Conley said. ''That's a strong part of the social fabric in America. Another is the Puritan string in American capitalism: to save, to lead an inconspicuous life.''
 The saving and the discreet lifestyle, however, Professor Conley noted, have been somewhat lost in recent times. Instead, no home seems to be big enough and increasingly fancy cars idle in front of us on the school run.
 Sometimes it seems as if we must be doing something wrong because we can't possibly afford what they can -- even if we don't want it.
 The truth is, however, that we don't know the truth, said Shira Boss, author of ''Green With Envy: Why Keeping Up With the Joneses Is Keeping Us in Debt,'' (Warner Books, 2006).
 ''The accessibility and availability of debt has created a fiction that wasn't there 20 years ago,'' Ms. Boss said. ''We don't have a grip on who can afford what. Your external lifestyle is a lot lower when you're living within your means -- you can see extravagance, but not financial security.''
 Ms. Schappell said that editing her book made her realize that ''all the ready credit gives of the illusion of living the American dream.''
 In the introduction to their book, Ms. Schappell and Ms. Offill note that ''economists report that middle-class families are now carrying record levels of credit card debt, going without health insurance and filing for bankruptcy at several times the rate of the early 1980s.''
 ''Turns out those McMansions and shiny S.U.V.'s have us mortgaged up to our eyeballs, but until the wolf is truly at the door, you won't find many of us admitting it.''
 Ms. Schappell said she now believed, however, that the old-fashioned ideal of working hard, saving and gradually making it is a bankrupt one. Instead, the way people envision growing rich, she said, is through a windfall: ''a malpractice lawsuit, the lottery or going on a reality show -- it's the new American dream.''
 But envying people is part of human nature, right? It is one of the seven deadly sins, one of the Ten Commandments. We're always going to want what we don't have. There are studies and surveys that show people never feel they have enough; for example, in 2005, PNC Advisors -- now PNC Wealth Management -- asked 792 of its rich private-banking clients what they would need to feel financially secure; virtually all said they needed to double their wealth.
 Twenty-nine percent of those with more than $10 million to invest also said having more money generated more problems than it solved.
 ''For Americans, it's all about the pursuit,'' Ms. Boss said. ''It's a question of degree. Envy is so evil-sounding -- there is a release in just saying it. I try to say right away, 'I'm so envious.' We shouldn't beat ourselves up over it.''
 Others say the problem is more one of society and less one of individuals. That the drumbeat to consume more all the time is so deafening that few can resist.
 ''I strongly disagree that it's human nature,'' said Allen D. Kanner, a psychologist and co-editor of ''Psychology and Consumer Culture'' (American Psychological Association, 2004). ''Our nature is being molded pretty powerfully by the media. If we started a trend to extract marketing from our lives, it would go a long way to reducing money anxieties.'' Mr. Kanner is also a co-founder of the nonprofit Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood (www.commercialfreechildhood.org).
 Tim Kasser, an associate professor of psychology at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., said the answer was to want less.
 There is a small movement, he said, heir to many such groups in the past, called voluntary simplifiers who have chosen to make do with less. This doesn't mean they live puritanical lives without modern conveniences, but rather they have consciously chosen to make less money and work fewer hours to spend more time with families and friends.
 A study in 2005 of 200 ''voluntary simplifiers'' in 48 states compared with 200 similar people in the same geographical areas who lived regular lives found that the simplifiers were happier according to a variety of criteria, said Professor Kasser, author of ''The High Price of Materialism'' (MIT Press 2002). (Details about the movement can be found at www.simpleliving.net.)
 Even though we do tend to compare ourselves with those who have more, not less, it does help to remember that there is truth in cliches: money does not buy happiness.
 ''I'd like to have a lot more money,'' Ms. Schappell said. ''I'd like to use a credit card and not cross my fingers. I don't want to be a waitress again and I don't want to deliver balloons again. But money doesn't make you feel smarter or more attractive.
 ''You have to look at what money is standing in for in your life. Is it safety? Does it make you socially acceptable? Does it make you important?''
 Attitudes about money may also change as the baby boom generation moves toward retirement, Professor Conley said.
 ''The biggest birth core of the 20th century is now at its peak earning years and about to retire,'' he said. ''As this group leave their earning years, will they set a leisure and consumption culture for the rest of us or will they move into a more frugal mode of life and the whole dynamic will change?'' 
 Talking about our finances may also become slightly less loaded, Mr. Conley predicted, as there is less and less stability; most people no longer work for the same company for years, nor have standardized contracts or receive defined pension benefits.
 ''With the increased volatility, people feel more desperate,'' he said. ''They may not say, 'How much do you make? How much did you pay for your house,' but, in a more subtle way, I think people feel the need to find that out more than they did 15 years ago.''
 I can see becoming more open about our finances with friends and family. It is not that we have a lot to hide, but occasionally I've wondered about certain issues like how our income stacks up next to my sisters' families'. Maybe I'll bring that up at the next family reunion. And I'll suggest that they go first.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Danwei Chu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); LITERATURE (86%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); WRITERS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%) Personal Finances; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Alina Tugend; Elissa Schappell; Shira J Boss

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



50 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Report Brings a Tepid End to a Strong Week

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a strong week narrowly mixed yesterday as the market absorbed a weaker-than-expected employment report that curbed investors' bullish sentiment after three straight days of gains. 
 The January jobs report, which showed the country's unemployment rate at a four-month high of 4.6 percent, came as a surprise on Wall Street. A reading of 4.5 percent had been expected. The Labor Department report signaled that employers were more cautious than expected in adding jobs in the new year. The economy added 111,000 jobs last month, below the 150,000 that had been expected.
Investors also received word from the Commerce Department that factory orders showed their biggest gain in nine months in December, rising 2.4 percent. Also, the final Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment reading for January rose to 96.9 from 91.7 in December, its highest level in two years, but fell short of a preliminary reading of 98. 
 ''They're by no means terrible numbers here,'' said Andy Richman, fixed-income strategist at SunTrust Bank's personal asset management arm. He said the readings indicate that the Federal Reserve's strategy of standing pat on interest rates is working. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 20.19 points, or 0.16 percent, to 12,653.49. 
 Broader stock indicators were higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.45 points, or 0.17 percent, to 1,448.39, its highest level in more than six years, and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 7.50 points, or 0.30 percent, to 2,475.88.
 For the week, the Dow was up 1.33 percent, while the Nasdaq gained 1.66 percent and the S.& P., 1.84 percent.
 Bonds were little changed, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note up 4/32, at 98 15/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, falling to 4.82 percent, from 4.84 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.
 Light crude oil settled up $1.72, at $59.02 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Crude prices have risen this week on political concerns in the Middle East, and cold weather in the northeastern United States.
 In a week full of corporate profit reports, the Fed's decision on interest rates and the jobs report stood out, and, as expected, played the greatest role in shaping investor sentiment. 
 The central bank's decision to leave short-term interest rates unchanged and its comments that the economy remains solid and that inflation appears to be in check helped drive stocks higher. 
 The Dow and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies set closing highs Thursday.
 The meandering trading yesterday after three days of gains was somewhat typical of Wall Street's behavior in the new year as run-ups have often been accompanied by a session or more of contemplation in which investors try to determine whether stocks are poised to move higher. 
 In corporate news, the Internet retailer Amazon.com fell $1.31, or 3.4 percent, to $37.39, after the company's fourth-quarter profit fell and raised concerns about thinning profit margins.
 Intuitive Surgical rose $17.45, or 17.6 percent, to $116.77 after profit at the company, which makes robotic surgical gear, fell but came in better than Wall Street expected.
 The video game publisher Electronic Arts rose 59 cents, to $51.13, after the company's fourth-quarter earnings handily topped Wall Street's expectations.
 Chevron fell 43 cents, to $74.04, after the company posted a decline in its fourth-quarter profit amid lower energy prices. 
 CA, the maker of business information software, rose $1.69, or 6.8 percent, to $26.69, after it raised its 2007 sales forecast.
 The drop in gold prices pushed shares of mining companies lower. Barrick Gold fell 31 cents, to $29.98; Goldcorp fell 88 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $27.22.
 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.16 percent.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Finances

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



51 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Slower Job Growth, at Least for Now

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Job growth slowed in January, the government reported yesterday, offering a tentative sign that the economy may be shifting down a notch from its unexpectedly robust pace of growth at the end of last year. 
 According to the Department of Labor's report, employers across the nation added 111,000 jobs last month, about half the monthly gains recorded at the end of last year and fewer than most Wall Street economists expected.
Unemployment rose a tenth of a percentage point, to 4.6 percent, the highest level since September, because of a substantial increase in the number of people entering the labor force seeking a job.
 The weaker data for January soothed some investors in financial markets, who have been worrying that faster growth in jobs and wages may feed through to higher inflation. ''We're looking at the ultimate rosy scenario,'' said Robert S. Gay, managing partner of Fenwick Advisors, a financial consulting firm. ''Not too fast, not too slow.'' 
 But employers may be hiring at a faster clip than is immediately apparent. The Labor Department also acknowledged that employers added nearly one million more jobs from March 2005 through last December than it had previously estimated. 
 Last year, employment growth exceeded earlier estimates by more than 400,000 jobs. The magnitude of the change suggested that the Labor Department might be seriously underestimating the growth in employment. 
 ''The size of the upward revisions was enormous,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR. ''You put the pieces of the puzzle together, and it sort of tells you that the 111,000 number is not something to focus on.'' January's number will be revised in February and March, and will be subject to an annual adjustment next year.
 The reported changes to prior data were mostly because of the annual adjustment of the sample of businesses that the Labor Department surveys to put together its employment figures. The department also recalibrated its model of the birth and death of businesses -- which feeds into its estimates of employment growth.
 The adjustments fit an underlying picture of an economy that is somewhat stronger than previously thought, despite the continuing weakness in the housing market -- which has affected employment in the housing sector. Early estimates put growth in the fourth quarter at 3.5 percent, faster than expected. 
 Indeed, the University of Michigan's consumer confidence gauge for January, which was released yesterday, rebounded to its highest level in two years, as cheaper energy encouraged expectations of a stronger economy, better jobs and higher wages. 
 Richard T. Curtin, who heads the university's surveys of consumers, noted that in January only 27 percent of consumers said they expected unemployment to rise over the next year, the lowest percentage in two years, down from 41 percent in the August survey. ''Consumers expect a big increase in real incomes,'' Mr. Curtin added.
 Wages did not grow much in January. Hourly wages increased 3 cents, or 0.2 percent, before inflation, the slowest since September. The total hours worked in the private sector declined to 33.8 a week, from 33.9 in December.
 Though inflation in January has not yet been reported, it would not be surprising if it were to exceed the growth in hourly wages.
 When the Federal Reserve voted on Wednesday to leave interest rates unchanged, it sounded its usual cautionary note about inflation. But this time, it was more optimistic that prices would ''moderate over time,'' its statement said.
 Still, some economists remain nervous about wage growth. ''Increases in wages should not necessarily lead to wage inflation of the sort that would worry the Fed if we continue to see productivity growth, but productivity growth has been slowing,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group. 
 Even so, Mr. Baumohl added, the Fed may find it difficult to raise interest rates just as workers are starting to see real wage gains. ''It's taken so long for workers to catch up, that you really don't want to terminate that abrupt increase in income. The Fed is going to have to be very careful here.''
 Yet, according to some economists, the Fed will not be faced with that decision because the labor market is about to take a turn for the worse as the boost from cheaper gas and the warm winter weather starts to fade.
 ''I think we'll be looking at softer numbers,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, ''especially to the extent that you've gotten some help from weather. And there's going to be payback for that. What it means is that seasonal layoffs in the winter weren't as significant as they have been in past winters. And there's going to be less seasonal hiring in the spring.''
 The job figures, part of the Labor Department's monthly employment report, underscored how the housing slump is still putting a drag on the economy. Last month, home builders and related businesses cut 11,400 jobs. 
 Still, other sectors have not followed housing down, as many economists had feared. For instance, hiring in commercial construction offset many of the losses in housing, and the construction industry as a whole posted a gain of 22,000 jobs.
 Some of the sectors doing the most hiring in January were health care and social assistance (24,500 new jobs), food services (21,000 jobs) and government (14,000).
 Cuts to blue-collar work forces were some of the deepest last month. Manufacturing continued to drag, losing a net 16,000 jobs in the month. Those losses were concentrated in the automobile industry, where carmakers and auto parts manufacturers eliminated 23,000 jobs. In all of 2006, auto and auto parts manufacturers shed more than 83,000 jobs, the government reported.
 JAN.: 2.11-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.Graph tracks unemployment rate over the past year.EMPLOYMENTAVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersJAN.: $577.641-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +4.0%
 BY TYPE OF WORK (In millions)NonfarmJAN.: 137.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4%GoodsJAN.: 22.51-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2ServicesJAN.: 114.71-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.AgricultureJAN.: 2.31-MONTH CHANGE: -1.11-YEAR CHANGE: +3.0Graph tracks the employment rate for the past year.Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.**Not seasonally adjusted.***People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Labor Picture in January''UNEMPLOYMENTBY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteJAN.: 4.1%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.BlackJAN.: 8.01-MONTH CHANGE: -0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -0.8Hispanic*JAN.: 5.71-MONTH CHANGE: +0.81-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.AsianJAN.: 3.2**1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.81-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.Teenagers (16-19)JAN.: 15.01-MONTH CHANGE: -0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT (In weeks)AverageJAN.: 16.21-MONTH CHANGE: +1.9%1-YEAR CHANGE: -3.6%MedianJAN.: 8.11-MONTH CHANGE: +11.01-YEAR CHANGE: -4.7SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployed JAN.: 63.3%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.4Labor force (workers and unemployed)JAN.: 66.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: +0.3'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)Working part time, but want full-time workJAN.: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: +0.3%1-YEAR CHANGE: +2.6%People who currently want a job***JAN.: 4.6**1-MONTH CHANGE: +12.41-YEAR CHANGE: -9.1UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolJAN.: 6.8%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2High schoolJAN.: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Some collegeJAN.: 3.71-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2Bachelor's or higher

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



52 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: When the 'Real' Numbers Are Rosy, but the Others Are Less So

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
SOMETIMES ''real'' numbers are anything but.
 So it may have been this week when the United States reported that its economy grew at a surprisingly rapid real annual rate of 3.5 percent in the final three months of 2006. Investors were relieved and stocks leaped. Consumers, it was said, had once again shown their willingness to spend, notwithstanding the slump in the housing market. 
 ''Did the economy slow late last year? '' asked Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. ''If you look at real numbers, no. If you look at nominal numbers, yes.''
 Real numbers reflect adjustments for inflation, and inflation was down sharply in the quarter, thanks in part to falling oil prices.
 The other numbers reported, the nominal ones, are in some ways more real than the real ones. Consumers and businesses spend nominal dollars to buy things and know how much they spent. It is only later that economists calculate inflation rates and ascertain just how much ''real'' spending was up or down.
 In the most recent quarter, the real growth rate was also helped by rising inventories -- stuff that has been purchased but not yet sold -- and by a rise in exports. Those exports are good news for the economy, but they do not reflect American demand for goods and services.
 That demand can be seen in the category the government calls ''final sales to domestic purchasers.'' In the final quarter of 2006, that figure, before adjusting for inflation, rose at an annual rate of only 2.5 percent, less than a third of the growth rate early last year. It was the slowest rate of growth since early 2002, when the economy was emerging from the 2001 recession.
 What seems to have happened is that people cut back on spending plans for the holidays, only to discover they got more than expected because prices were reduced.
 Another chart shows a similar pattern in personal consumption expenditures, which grew at an annual rate of 3.6 percent. The drop there was not as sharp, but it was still noticeable.
 The final chart shows spending on fixed investment, a category that includes everything from computers to buildings. It has declined for two consecutive quarters, something that had not happened since 2002.
 That fall could call into question the widespread expectation that growth in business spending will overcome any weakness in consumer spending brought on by worries over home prices.
 Earlier in 2006, it looked as if that forecast was a good one. Private nonresidential fixed investment -- before adjustment for inflation -- rose at an annual rate of 12.1 percent in the first three quarters of 2006, the fastest three-quarter growth rate since 1997. But in the fourth quarter, the annual rate of growth plunged to 1.8 percent.
 Perhaps that was an anomaly -- spending on fixed investment can change rapidly -- but it could also be an indication that business spending is being pared back.
 Meanwhile, spending on residential fixed investment -- basically home building -- fell at an annual rate of 15.9 percent. That was a little better than the third quarter, but it was hardly a good number. The latest quarter was also the first time since 1991 that residential fixed investment declined in three consecutive quarters.
 Lower inflation and improved exports made a mediocre quarter appear much better than it was.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Sag in Spending''Graphs track the following since 2000*: U.S. final sales to domestic purchasersPersonal consumption expendituresFixed investmentQuarterly changes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates, not adjusted for inflation(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); INVENTORIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%) United States Economy

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



53 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW : LAST CHANCE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: To Explore Race, Sometimes You Focus on the Explorer

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
''For Whites Only'' is the title Joe Ovelman gave his solo show at the Oliver Kamm/5BE Gallery. So you know right away that he's playing with race, which means that he's playing with fire. The show is in two sections, and the first, a project titled ''Rosa Parks 381,'' is straightforward enough. 
 Working at St. Philip's Church in Harlem last fall, Mr. Ovelman issued a communitywide call for 381 volunteers to sit for Polaroid portraits; 381 is the number of days the 1955 Montgomery, Ala., bus boycott lasted. The only stipulation was that the sitters considered themselves to be African-American. 
 Mr. Ovelman, who identifies himself as white, took a picture of everyone who showed up, signed the works and gave them to the sitters. In return, he asked each sitter to take his picture, sign it and let him keep it. The portraits of Mr. Ovelman, all signed by the different volunteers, fill a gallery wall. 
 The gift-giving nature of the exchange feels nice and pokes gently at art world economics. Mr. Ovelman is the subject of the portraits here, but they are all by nonartists. The photographs he took, to which his artist status presumably gives sales value, are floating out in some other world, maybe valued or maybe not. 
 Questions arise when a white artist tries to define and commodify ''blackness,'' directly or indirectly. Such questions certainly come up here, yet they are nothing compared with those provoked by the show's second half, installed in the back gallery. 
 On one wall hang seven tiny gold-wire images -- about the size of earrings -- depicting lynched bodies. Across the room are 12 hand-written examples of obscene racial slurs, which Mr. Ovelman says he overheard and copied down verbatim. A CD player holds 24 songs that all use a racial epithet that is now in popular circulation, but is still incendiary, depending on how and by whom it is spoken. Finally, there is a video of a young, nude African-Brazilian man alternately standing, sitting and pacing alone in a room. The video is hours long.
 Racism is the theme; time is the connection. The songs on the CD correspond to the number of hours in a day; the lynched figures, to the days in a week; the drawings, to the months in a year. The unedited video, filmed in a former slave-trading port in Brazil, is the length of an average work day (and, not coincidentally, of Andy Warhol's ''Empire''). And the man filmed is, indeed, working: Mr. Ovelman hired him to stay in front of the stationary camera for an unbroken eight-hour stretch.
 The show, confrontational and affrontive, asks many questions and raises many problems. Would it feel less offensive, easier to ''read,'' if the artist were black, not white? That Mr. Ovelman is white, of course, is the point: a white artist making jewelry about lynchings in a white-run gallery, in a predominantly white art neighborhood, in a city largely run by whites. 
 But must such a white artist inevitably be viewed as acting opportunistically, in bad faith? A quote from James Baldwin appears on the gallery wall: ''I'll be black for as long as you tell me that you are white.'' Is Mr. Ovelman trying to overload these distinctions with so much negative energy that they short-circuit? 
 Interestingly, the show, which continues through next Saturday, has attracted scant notice and generated little heat. Has a quarter-century of now unfashionable identity politics blunted rather than sharpened debate? Has thinking about race genuinely changed? Or has political apathy simply grown?
 And, finally, within an insulated art world where art itself has become so closely identified with the retail market -- just more expensive stuff, in another shop -- does no one hear or care what art says? ''For Whites Only'' continues through next Saturday at Oliver Kamm/5BE Gallery, 621 West 27th Street, Chelsea; (212) 255-0979.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Joe Ovelman's ''Rosa Parks 381,'' in which he asked African-American volunteers to take his photograph. Left, a video installation in Mr. Ovelman's solo show. (Photographs courtesy of the artist and Oliver Kamm/5BE Gallery, New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%); CD & DVD DRIVES (62%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Joe Ovelman

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



54 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: SCIENCE PANEL SAYS GLOBAL WARMING IS 'UNEQUIVOCAL'

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL and ANDREW C. REVKIN; Elisabeth Rosenthal reported from Paris, and Andrew C. Revkin from New York. Felicity Barringer contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
In a grim and powerful assessment of the future of the planet, the leading international network of climate scientists has concluded for the first time that global warming is ''unequivocal'' and that human activity is the main driver, ''very likely'' causing most of the rise in temperatures since 1950. 
 They said the world was in for centuries of climbing temperatures, rising seas and shifting weather patterns -- unavoidable results of the buildup of heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere.
But their report, released here on Friday by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said warming and its harmful consequences could be substantially blunted by prompt action. 
 While the report provided scant new evidence of a climate apocalypse now, and while it expressly avoided recommending courses of action, officials from the United Nations agencies that created the panel in 1988 said it spoke of the urgent need to limit looming and momentous risks.
 ''In our daily lives we all respond urgently to dangers that are much less likely than climate change to affect the future of our children,'' said Achim Steiner, executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, which administers the panel along with the World Meteorological Organization.
 ''Feb. 2 will be remembered as the date when uncertainty was removed as to whether humans had anything to do with climate change on this planet,'' he went on. ''The evidence is on the table.'' 
 The report is the panel's fourth assessment since 1990 on the causes and consequences of climate change, but it is the first in which the group asserts with near certainty -- more than 90 percent confidence -- that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from human activities have been the main causes of warming in the past half century. 
 In its last report, in 2001, the panel, consisting of hundreds of scientists and reviewers, said the confidence level for its projections was ''likely,'' or 66 to 90 percent. That level has now been raised to ''very likely,'' better than 90 percent. Both reports are online at www.ipcc.ch.
 The Bush administration, which until recently avoided directly accepting that humans were warming the planet in potentially harmful ways, embraced the findings, which had been approved by representatives from the United States and 112 other countries on Thursday night.
 Administration officials asserted Friday that the United States had played a leading role in studying and combating climate change, in part by an investment of an average of almost $5 billion a year for the past six years in research and tax incentives for new technologies. 
 At the same time, Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman rejected the idea of unilateral limits on emissions. ''We are a small contributor to the overall, when you look at the rest of the world, so it's really got to be a global solution,'' he said. 
 The United States, with about 5 percent of the world's population, contributes about a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, more than any other country.
 Democratic lawmakers quickly fired off a round of news releases using the report to bolster a fresh flock of proposed bills aimed at cutting emissions of greenhouse gases. Senator James M. Inhofe, the Oklahoma Republican who has called the idea of dangerous human-driven warming a hoax, issued a news release headed ''Corruption of Science'' that rejected the report as ''a political document.''
 The new report says the global climate is likely to warm 3.5 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit if carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere reach twice the levels of 1750, before the Industrial Revolution. 
 Many energy and environment experts see such a doubling, or worse, as a foregone conclusion after 2050 unless there is a prompt and sustained shift away from the 20th-century pattern of unfettered burning of coal and oil, the main sources of carbon dioxide, and an aggressive expansion of nonpolluting sources of energy.
 And the report says there is a more than a 1-in-10 chance of much greater warming, a risk that many experts say is far too high to ignore. 
 Even a level of warming that falls in the middle of the group's range of projections would be likely to cause significant stress to ecosystems, according to many climate experts and biologists. And it would alter longstanding climate patterns that shape water supplies and agricultural production. 
 Moreover, the warming has set in motion a rise in global sea levels, the report says. It forecasts a rise of 7 to 23 inches by 2100 and concludes that seas will continue to rise for at least 1,000 years to come. By comparison, seas rose about 6 to 9 inches in the 20th century.
 John P. Holdren, an energy and climate expert at Harvard, said the report ''powerfully underscores the need for a massive effort to slow the pace of global climatic disruption before intolerable consequences become inevitable.''
 ''Since 2001, there has been a torrent of new scientific evidence on the magnitude, human origins and growing impacts of the climatic changes that are under way,'' said Mr. Holdren, who is the president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. ''In overwhelming proportions, this evidence has been in the direction of showing faster change, more danger and greater confidence about the dominant role of fossil-fuel burning and tropical deforestation in causing the changes that are being observed.''
 The conclusions came after a three-year review of hundreds of studies of past climate shifts; observations of retreating ice, warming and rising seas, and other changes around the planet; and a greatly expanded suite of supercomputer simulations used to test how the earth will respond to a growing blanket of gases that hold heat in the atmosphere. 
 The section released Friday was a 20-page summary for policymakers, which was approved early in the morning by teams of officials from more than 100 countries after three days and nights of wrangling over wording with the lead authors, all of whom are scientists.
 It described far-flung ramifications for both humans and nature. 
 ''It is very likely that hot extremes, heat waves and heavy precipitation events will continue to become more frequent,'' said the summary.
 Generally, the scientists said, more precipitation will fall at higher latitudes, which are also likely to see lengthened growing seasons. Semi-arid subtropical regions, already chronically plagued by drought, could have a further 20 percent drop in rainfall under the panel's midrange outlook for increases in the greenhouse gases. 
 The summary added a new chemical consequence of the buildup of carbon dioxide to the list of mainly climatic and biological effects foreseen in its previous reports: a drop in the pH of seawater as oceans absorb billions of tons of carbon dioxide, which forms carbonic acid when partly dissolved. The ocean would stay alkaline, but marine biologists have said that a change in the direction of acidity could imperil some kinds of corals and plankton. 
 The report essentially caps a half-century-long effort to discern whether humans, through the buildup of carbon dioxide and other gases released mainly by burning fuels and forests, could influence the earth's climate system in potentially momentous ways. 
 The group operates under the aegis of the United Nations and was chartered in 1988 -- a year of record heat, burning forests and the first big headlines about global warming -- to provide regular reviews of climate science to governments to inform policy choices. 
 Government officials are involved in shaping the summary of each report, but the scientist-authors, who are unpaid, have the final say over the thousands of pages in four underlying technical reports that will be completed and published later this year.
 Big questions remain about the speed and extent of some impending changes, both because of uncertainty about future population and pollution trends and the complex interrelationships of the greenhouse emissions, clouds, dusty kinds of pollution, the oceans and earth's veneer of life, which both emits and soaks up carbon dioxide and other such gases.
 But a broad array of scientists, including authors of the report and independent experts, said the latest analysis was the most sobering view yet of a century of transition -- after thousands of years of relatively stable climate conditions -- to a new norm of continual change.
 Should greenhouse gases continue to accumulate in the atmosphere at even a moderate pace, average temperatures by the end of the century could match those last seen 125,000 years ago, in the previous warm spell between ice ages, the report said. 
 At that time, the panel said, sea levels were 12 to 20 feet higher than they are now. Much of that extra water is now trapped in the ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica, which are eroding in some places. 
 The panel said there was no solid scientific understanding of how rapidly the vast stores of ice in polar regions will melt, so their estimates on new sea levels were based mainly on how much the warmed oceans will expand, and not on contributions from the melting of ice now on land. 
 Other scientists have recently reported evidence that the glaciers and ice sheets in the Arctic and Antarctic could flow seaward far more quickly than estimated in the past, and they have proposed that the risks to coastal areas could be much more imminent. But the climate change panel is forbidden by its charter to enter into speculation, and so could not include such possible instabilities in its assessment.
 Michel Jarraud, the secretary general of the United Nations World Meteorological Organization, said the lack of clarity should offer no one comfort. ''The speed with which melting ice sheets are raising sea levels is uncertain, but the report makes clear that sea levels will rise inexorably over the coming centuries,'' he said. ''It is a question of when and how much, and not if.''
 The warming and other climate changes will be highly variable around the world, with the Arctic in particular seeing much higher temperatures, said Susan Solomon, the co-leader of the team writing the summary and the section of the panel's report on basic science. She is an atmospheric scientist for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
 The kinds of vulnerabilities are very much dependent on where you are, Dr. Solomon said in a telephone interview. ''If you're living in parts of the tropics and they're getting drier and you're a farmer, there are some very acute issues associated with even small changes in rainfall -- changes we're already seeing are significant,'' she said. ''If you are an Inuit and you're seeing your sea ice retreating already, that's affecting your life style and culture.''
 The 20-page summary is a sketch of the findings that are most germane to the public and world leaders. 
 The full report, thousands of pages of technical background, will be released in four sections through the year -- the first on basic science, then sections on impacts and options for limiting emissions and limiting inevitable harms, and finally a synthesis of all of the findings near year's end. 
 In a news conference in Paris, Dr. Solomon declined to provide her own views on how society should respond to the momentous changes projected in the study. 
 ''I honestly believe that it would be a much better service for me to keep my personal opinions separate than what I can actually offer the world as a scientist,'' she said. ''My stepson, who is 29, has an utterly different view of risks than I do. People are going to have to make their own judgments.''
 Some authors of the report said that no one could honestly point to any remaining uncertainties as justification for further delay. 
 ''Policy makers paid us to do good science, and now we have very high scientific confidence in this work -- this is real, this is real, this is real,'' said Richard B. Alley, one of the lead authors and a professor at Pennsylvania State University. ''So now act, the ball's back in your court.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption on Feb. 3 about polar bears floating on chunks of glacial ice, illustrating an article on a global warming report, carried incorrect information from the Canadian Ice Service about when and where the photograph was taken, and about who took it. The picture was taken in August 2006 in the Chukchi Sea, not in 2004 in the Bering Sea, farther south. The photographer was Amanda Byrd, not Dan Crosbie.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at an industrial-residue disposal site in Hanshou County in central China yesterday. A climate panel has concluded that human industrial activity is ''very likely'' driving global temperature rises. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A5)
 Polar bears adrift on chunks of glacial ice in the Bering Sea in 2004. Much higher temperatures are forecast for the Arctic, scientists say. (Photo by Dan Crosbie/Canadian Ice Service)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Observations and Predictions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change''Greenhouse GasesHuman activities have increased greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. This has resulted in warming and other climate changes.Graphs track carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere (parts per billion) since 1850.CARBON DIOXIDECarbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased from a pre-industrial value of about 280 parts per million to 379 parts per million in 2005.METHANEMethane in the atmosphere has more than doubled since pre-industrial times, from about 750 parts per billion to 1,750 in 2005.SIMULATIONS OF FUTURE CLIMATE CHANGETo determine the range of possible future climate shifts, scientists ran dozens of computer simulations to see how different scenarios for population and economic growth might influence emissions and, ultimately, temperatures. The temperature increases and other impacts predicted by the models were harsher under scenarios with higher emissions of greenhouse gases.LandTemperatures have increased over land and will continue to do so, reducing snow and ice cover, which can accelerate warming.Graphs track global average temperature (Fahrenheit) and snow cover in the northern hemisphere (millions of square miles) since 1850.TEMPERATURETemperature has risen about 1.4 degrees since the late 19th century. Eleven of the 12 warmest years on record have occurred since 1995.SNOW AND ICE COVERMountain glaciers and snow cover have declined in most parts of the world. Ice sheets on Greenland and Antarctica are breaking up, and Greenland's is shrinking.LOOKING AHEADThe new report says the global climate is likely to warm 3.5 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit if carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere reach twice the levels of 1750, before the Industrial Revolution.Glaciers and snow cover will decline. The Greenland ice sheet, under persistent warming, could disappear after several thousand years, raising seas 23 feet globally. The Antarctic ice sheet is expected to fare better.OceanThe ocean has absorbed much of the extra heat from the greenhouse effect. Sea levels have risen and will continue to do so.Graph tracks global average sea level compared with 1961-90 (inches) since 1850.SEA LEVELSea level rose about six to nine inches in the 20th century. The rate of increase in the late 20th century was faster than earlier, though this may reflect natural variation.SEA ICEThe average coverage of Arctic sea ice has shrunk 2.7 percent per decade since 1978, with summertime ice decreasing 7.4 percent per decade.LOOKING AHEADThe best estimate of sea level rise by 2100 is seven inches to two feet, depending on the amount of greenhouse gases emitted. The rise is caused by ice melting and by the seas expanding as they warm.In every emission scenario considered, Arctic and Antarctic sea ice continue to shrink. Under some projections, Arctic sea ice disappears entirely in summer by the late 21st century.WeatherThere is evidence that extreme weather has increased, and it is more likely than not that human activities have contributed to the trend.CYCLONESThere is evidence of an increase in hurricane intensity in the North Atlantic since 1970. Long-term trends are more difficult to discern. The number of cyclones shows no clear trend.PRECIPITATIONIncreased precipitation has been seen in the eastern Americas, northern Europe and parts of Asia. Droughts have become more intense and longer, especially in lower latitudes.LOOKING AHEADIt is likely that future hurricanes and typhoons will become more intense, with higher winds and more rain. Some models suggest their numbers may decrease, but there is less confidence in this prediction.It is very likely that storms with heavy rains will increase. Precipitation will very likely increase in high latitudes, while decreases in subtropical land areas are likely.(pg. A5)ChartPossible surface temperature increases for the 21st century, based on a midrange scenario for greenhouse gas emissions.(Source by Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); METEOROLOGY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); WEATHER (78%); TYPHOONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); APPROVALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Oceans; Carbon Dioxide; Weather

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (93%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME (55%) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (50%) Elisabeth Rosenthal; Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (92%); BERING SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (74%) ARCTIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREENLAND (93%); ANTARCTICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



55 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Record $622 Billion Budget Requested for the Pentagon

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is seeking a record military budget of $622 billion for the 2008 fiscal year, Pentagon officials have said. The sum includes more than $140 billion for war-related costs.
 The administration is also seeking $93 billion in the current fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30, to pay for military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere, the officials said.
The requests are part of the annual budget request to Congress for all federal spending programs. The budget is to be made public on Monday, and Congress will revise it in the coming months. 
 Together with money for combat operations this year already approved by Congress, the new request would push spending related to Iraq and Afghanistan to $163 billion.
 ''It is the highest level of spending since the height of the Korean War,'' said Steven Kosiak, a military budget expert with the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a policy analysis organization here.
 Mr. Kosiak said that in 1952 the United States spent the equivalent of $645 billion in today's dollars, factoring in inflation, and that in the Korean War military spending exceeded 13 percent of the gross national product. The figure is now 4 percent. 
 With Democrats in control of Congress and opposition to the Iraq war running strong, the administration's request may face even greater scrutiny than it has in recent years. But few if any budget experts expect significant cuts in military spending while large numbers of troops are in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 In a statement, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said: ''Democrats pledge that our troops will receive everything they need to do their jobs. We will also subject this supplemental to the tough and serious oversight that Congress has ignored for four years.''
 The regular Pentagon budget request for 2008, which excludes war-related costs but covers Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine costs as well as other spending, will be $481 billion, a Pentagon official said. That would be an increase of $49 billion over what Congress provided this year, Mr. Kosiak said.
 ''As long as we're engaged in major military operations, you are probably not going to see decreases in the baseline budget,'' he said.
 The Pentagon is seeking $128.6 billion for the Army, $110.7 billion for the Air Force and $140 billion for the Navy, department officials said.Background briefings for members of Congress and their staffs have begun. As details leaked out, Pentagon officials agreed to provide an outline of the request. The officials said the budget included no cancellations of major weapons systems, despite delays and escalating costs in procurement accounts in all the services.
 The $141 billion request for war-related costs in 2008 represents the first time the administration has tried at the beginning of the budget cycle to provide a total estimate for how much the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and other military operations will cost a year in advance. 
 Congress has been pressing the administration for several years to provide such estimates. Even as they comply, Pentagon officials emphasized that actual costs could be far different, depending on the course of the wars.
 The budget request, which takes many months to prepare, is being released as the administration is sending an additional 21,500 troops to Iraq.
 A spokesman for the Pentagon, Bryan Whitman, said Friday that that the Office of Management and Budget had estimated that the additional forces would cost $5.6 billion in the current fiscal year, which ends in September.
 On Thursday, the Congressional Budget Office released its estimate, which said the costs could run much higher. 
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, at a Pentagon news conference, disputed the office's estimate, saying it greatly overstated the number of support troops that would be necessary to go along with the 21,500 increase in combat forces.
 Mr. Gates also said he had recommended that President Bush nominate Adm. Timothy J. Keating of the Navy, now commander of Norad, as commander of the United States Pacific Command, making him the top commander in the Pacific, and Lt. Gen. Gene Reunart of the Air Force to head the Northern Command, which is responsible for defending the continental United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NAVIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); APPROVALS (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%) David S Cloud; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; United States; Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



56 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: The Analysis: On the 'Polarization' of Iraqis and Their 'Ready Recourse to Violence'

 BODY:
Following is the text of the ''key judgments'' of the new National Intelligence Estimate about Iraq's future that was released yesterday. The report, most of which remains classified, is titled ''Prospects for Iraq's Stability: A Challenging Road Ahead'' and is dated January 2007. Italic emphasis and parenthetical abbreviations are from the report.
 Iraqi society's growing polarization, the persistent weakness of the security forces and the state in general, and all sides' ready recourse to violence are collectively driving an increase in communal and insurgent violence and political extremism. Unless efforts to reverse these conditions show measurable progress during the term of this estimate, the coming 12 to 18 months, we assess that the overall security situation will continue to deteriorate at rates comparable to the latter part of 2006.
If strengthened Iraqi Security Forces (I.S.F.), more loyal to the government and supported by coalition forces, are able to reduce levels of violence and establish more effective security for Iraq's population, Iraqi leaders could have an opportunity to begin the process of political compromise necessary for longer term stability, political progress, and economic recovery. 
 Nevertheless, even if violence is diminished, given the current winner-take-all attitude and sectarian animosities infecting the political scene, Iraqi leaders will be hard pressed to achieve sustained political reconciliation in the time frame of this estimate. 
 The challenges confronting Iraqis are daunting, and multiple factors are driving the current trajectory of the country's security and political evolution. 
 Decades of subordination to Sunni political, social, and economic domination have made the Shia deeply insecure about their hold on power. This insecurity leads the Shia to mistrust U.S. efforts to reconcile Iraqi sects and reinforces their unwillingness to engage with the Sunnis on a variety of issues, including adjusting the structure of Iraq's federal system, reining in Shia militias, and easing de-Baathification. 
 Many Sunni Arabs remain unwilling to accept their minority status, believe the central government is illegitimate and incompetent, and are convinced that Shia dominance will increase Iranian influence over Iraq, in ways that erode the state's Arab character and increase Sunni repression. 
 The absence of unifying leaders among the Arab Sunni or Shia with the capacity to speak for or exert control over their confessional groups limits prospects for reconciliation. The Kurds remain willing to participate in Iraqi state-building but reluctant to surrender any of the gains in autonomy they have achieved. 
 The Kurds are moving systematically to increase their control of Kirkuk to guarantee annexation of all or most of the city and province into the Kurdistan Regional Government (K.R.G.) after the constitutionally mandated referendum scheduled to occur no later than 31 December 2007. Arab groups in Kirkuk continue to resist violently what they see as Kurdish encroachment. 
 Despite real improvements, the Iraqi Security Forces (I.S.F.) -- particularly the Iraqi police -- will be hard pressed in the next 12-18 months to execute significantly increased security responsibilities, and particularly to operate independently against Shia militias with success. Sectarian divisions erode the dependability of many units, many are hampered by personnel and equipment shortfalls, and a number of Iraqi units have refused to serve outside of the areas where they were recruited. 
 Extremists -- most notably the Sunni jihadist group Al Qaeda in Iraq (A.Q.I.) and Shia oppositionist Jaysh al-Mahdi (J.A.M.) -- continue to act as very effective accelerators for what has become a self-sustaining inter-sectarian struggle between Shia and Sunnis. 
 Significant population displacement, both within Iraq and the movement of Iraqis into neighboring countries, indicates the hardening of ethno-sectarian divisions, diminishes Iraq's professional and entrepreneurial classes, and strains the capacities of the countries to which they have relocated. The U.N. estimates over a million Iraqis are now in Syria and Jordan. 
 The Intelligence Community judges that the term ''civil war'' does not adequately capture the complexity of the conflict in Iraq, which includes extensive Shia-on-Shia violence, Al Qaeda and Sunni insurgent attacks on coalition forces, and widespread criminally motivated violence. Nonetheless, the term ''civil war'' accurately describes key elements of the Iraqi conflict, including the hardening of ethno-sectarian identities, a sea change in the character of the violence, ethno-sectarian mobilization, and population displacements. 
 Coalition capabilities, including force levels, resources, and operations, remain an essential stabilizing element in Iraq. 
 If coalition forces were withdrawn rapidly during the term of this estimate, we judge that this almost certainly would lead to a significant increase in the scale and scope of sectarian conflict in Iraq, intensify Sunni resistance to the Iraqi government, and have adverse consequences for national reconciliation. 
 If such a rapid withdrawal were to take place, we judge that the I.S.F. would be unlikely to survive as a nonsectarian national institution; neighboring countries -- invited by Iraqi factions or unilaterally -- might intervene openly in the conflict; massive civilian casualties and forced population displacement would be probable; A.Q.I. would attempt to use parts of the country -- particularly Al Anbar Province -- to plan increased attacks in and outside of Iraq; and spiraling violence and political disarray in Iraq, along with Kurdish moves to control Kirkuk and strengthen autonomy, could prompt Turkey to launch a military incursion. 
 A number of identifiable developments could help to reverse the negative trends driving Iraq's current trajectory. They include: 
 Broader Sunni acceptance of the current political structure and federalism to begin to reduce one of the major sources of Iraq's instability. 
 Significant concessions by Shia and Kurds to create space for Sunni acceptance of federalism. 
 A bottom-up approach -- deputizing, resourcing, and working more directly with neighborhood watch groups and establishing grievance committees -- to help mend frayed relationships between tribal and religious groups, which have been mobilized into communal warfare over the past three years. 
 A key enabler for all of these steps would be stronger Iraqi leadership, which could enhance the positive impact of all the above developments. 
 Iraq's neighbors influence, and are influenced by, events within Iraq, but the involvement of these outside actors is not likely to be a major driver of violence or the prospects for stability because of the self-sustaining character of Iraq's internal sectarian dynamics. 
 Nonetheless, Iranian lethal support for select groups of Iraqi Shia militants clearly intensifies the conflict in Iraq. Syria continues to provide safe haven for expatriate Iraqi Baathists and to take less than adequate measures to stop the flow of foreign jihadists into Iraq. 
 For key Sunni regimes, intense communal warfare, Shia gains in Iraq, and Iran's assertive role have heightened fears of regional instability and unrest and contributed to a growing polarization between Iran and Syria on the one hand and other Middle East governments on the other. 
 But traditional regional rivalries, deepening ethnic and sectarian violence in Iraq over the past year, persistent anti-Americanism in the region, anti-Shia prejudice among Arab states, and fears of being perceived by their publics as abandoning their Sunni co-religionists in Iraq have constrained Arab states' willingness to engage politically and economically with the Shia-dominated government in Baghdad and led them to consider unilateral support to Sunni groups. 
 Turkey does not want Iraq to disintegrate and is determined to eliminate the safe haven in northern Iraq of the Kurdistan People's Congress (K.G.K., formerly P.K.K.) -- a Turkish Kurdish terrorist group. 
 A number of identifiable internal security and political triggering events, including sustained mass sectarian killings, assassination of major religious and political leaders, and a complete Sunni defection from the government have the potential to convulse severely Iraq's security environment. Should these events take place, they could spark an abrupt increase in communal and insurgent violence and shift Iraq's trajectory from gradual decline to rapid deterioration with grave humanitarian, political, and security consequences. Three prospective security paths might then emerge: 
 Chaos leading to partition. With a rapid deterioration in the capacity of Iraq's central government to function, security services and other aspects of sovereignty would collapse. Resulting widespread fighting could produce de facto partition, dividing Iraq into three mutually antagonistic parts. Collapse of this magnitude would generate fierce violence for at least several years, ranging well beyond the time frame of this estimate, before settling into a partially stable end-state. 
 Emergence of a Shia strongman. Instead of a disintegrating central government producing partition, a security implosion could lead Iraq's potentially most powerful group, the Shia, to assert its latent strength. 
 Anarchic fragmentation of power. The emergence of a checkered pattern of local control would present the greatest potential for instability, mixing extreme ethno-sectarian violence with debilitating intra-group clashes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis seizing a house during a battle with Shiite militants. A new assessment asks if the forces have the skills to defeat the militias. (Photo by Qassem Zein/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); REFERENDUMS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



57 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Lone Star Gets Big Dividend in Korea Deal

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
Lone Star Funds, the United States buyout firm whose multibillion-dollar sale of its investment in Korea Exchange Bank was blocked by South Korean prosecutors, will recoup almost a third of its original investment in a move that drew divided reaction. 
 Korea Exchange Bank officials said Friday that it would pay a $445 million dividend, its first in a decade, despite a 48 percent plunge in its net profit last year. 
The bank said it is giving out $688 million to its shareholders, or 1,000 won a share. Lone Star, based in Dallas, controls 64.6 percent of the bank, one of the largest lenders in South Korea. It paid 1.4 trillion won ($1.5 billion) for the majority stake in 2003.
 The move raised hackles among South Korean activists, who have accused Lone Star and other foreign equity funds of acting like vultures.
 ''Recouping part of its investment now is not an appropriate attitude we can expect from a fund on trial for that investment,'' said Chung Jong-nam, secretary general of Spec Watch Korea, a civic group that has filed a lawsuit in an attempt to annul Lone Star's 2003 transaction. ''I don't think it will do any good for Lone Star's image here.''
 An investigation by South Korean prosecutors into the original purchase pushed Lone Star to scrap a $7.3 billion deal to sell the bank to Kookmin Bank of South Korea. Many analysts then predicted that the fund might try to cash out through large dividend payments.
 In December, South Korean prosecutors said that the fund's original purchase was illegal. The Seoul Central District Court, which is hearing the case, is seeking to extradite Lone Star executives for questioning.
 Lone Star has denied any wrongdoing, protesting what it called a politically motivated investigation by prosecutors who it said were capitalizing on widespread public sentiment against foreign investors. 
 ''Today's dividend payment was smaller than expected,'' said Lee Jun-jae, a banking industry analyst at Korea Investment & Securities. 
 Some analysts had predicted a dividend of 2,000 won per share, rather than the 1,000 won a share that was announced. ''Lone Star must have tried to strike a balance between the options of making a quick exit through high dividends or holding them down for the future for a higher sale price of Korea Exchange,'' said Choi Min-jai, a senior fund manager at KTB Asset Management.
 A Lone Star spokeswoman in Seoul was not immediately available for comment.
 Lone Star's legal battle with prosecutors, which follows similar nationalistic reactions in the region, has become an intensely monitored test of the ability of South Korean authorities to balance protectionist local politics with the free-market behavior that outside investors expect from one of the world's largest economies.
 Many foreign investors say the investigation is emblematic of the political uncertainty they face in investing in South Korea, a concern that looms large as Washington and Seoul are negotiating a free trade agreement.
 Lone Star's acquisition of Korea Exchange was once hailed as a milestone in efforts to bring in foreign investors to save South Korea's distressed banking industry after the 1997-98 Asian crisis. But as foreign funds began selling their investments at staggering profits, a backlash started. Civic groups raised questions about the way the money was made, and by February 2006, prosecutors began an investigation into Korea Exchange's sale.
 ''There has been too much nationalist sentiment involved,'' said Lee Seung-jun, a fund manager at CJ Asset Management. ''People tend to get a bellyache when foreign investors make a huge profit.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); POLITICS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ETHICS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Ethics

COMPANY: KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (93%); LONE STAR FUNDS (93%); KB FINANCIAL GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Lone Star Funds; Korea Exchange Bank; Kookmin Bank

TICKER: 004940 (KSE) (93%); KB (NYSE) (66%); 105560 (KSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (93%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (93%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (66%)

PERSON: Choe Sang-Hun

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



58 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Effort on China Suffers 2 More Setbacks

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
The Bush administration's efforts to ease economic strains with China suffered two setbacks Friday with the resignation of a top official in charge of the China dialogue and an announcement that talks on a critical trade dispute had failed to resolve differences.
 The United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said Friday that ''our efforts at dialogue failed'' to resolve disputes over the American charge that China had illegally subsidized several industries to promote exports. She said Washington would bring the issue to the World Trade Organization, a major escalation in American pressure. 
''We would have preferred to work this out,'' Ms. Schwab said. ''We regret that was not possible.''
 The dispute was over Chinese subsidies of steel, wood products, information technology and other products that compete with goods made in the United States, Ms. Schwab said. Trade officials noted, however, that going to the trade organization would simply open a new phase of talks that could take years.
 Meanwhile, the resignation of Timothy D. Adams as under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs was the second departure in five months of the person at Treasury in charge of the overall dialogue with China.
 The departure of Mr. Adams comes at a time of rising impatience in Congress over the ''strategic economic dialogue'' started by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. in September as one of his principal objectives on the international stage.
 The dialogue is aimed at improving understanding and the atmosphere for resolving a range of economic disputes, particularly over the American demand that China allow its currency, the yuan, to float more freely on international exchange rates.
 A higher value of the yuan would presumably affect the trade balance by making exports to America more expensive and American exports to China cheaper, economists say. The yuan has risen about 6.5 percent in the last year and a half but Mr. Paulson told a Senate committee this week that China had moved too slowly to make its exchange rate more flexible.
 In his resignation letter to President Bush, whom he had served as an adviser in the 2000 presidential campaign and in Treasury posts since then, Mr. Adams said that he wanted to return to private life to spend more time with his wife and children.
 ''I refuse to give anything but my best as I endeavor to make a difference in public service,'' he said.
 Family reasons were also cited last fall in the departure of Mr. Adams's predecessor in the job of overseeing the dialogue, Deborah Lehr, a China specialist with experience in government and the private sector. Ms. Lehr resigned only six weeks after her recruitment by Mr. Paulson. Treasury officials are expected to name a new envoy to handle the dialogue soon.
 Mr. Paulson praised Mr. Adams for his service, especially for his work on China. As under secretary, Mr. Adams also worked on changes at the International Monetary Fund and in coordinating economic policy with American allies around the world.
 There has been speculation in Washington that Mr. Adams was growing impatient with the pace of progress on the China initiative. But when Treasury officials were asked about this some weeks ago, they said there was no truth to the rumors that Mr. Adams planned to leave.
 Acquaintances of Mr. Adams said that his decision to go was fueled less by policy matters than by the lack of a personal chemistry with Mr. Paulson, who came aboard the administration only last summer. 
 Mr. Adams was said to have chafed when Ms. Lehr was appointed as the China envoy last fall, and then again this winter as others have assumed the role of organizing the dialogue. Mr. Adams is a political insider with ties to the campaign apparatus of the Bush team, and Mr. Paulson is a former executive at Goldman Sachs who freely acknowledges his lack of interest and even distaste for politics.
 Some friends said that Mr. Adams had always intended to leave the administration before the end of its second term, having served as a top official to Mr. Paulson and two predecessors, Paul H. O'Neill and John W. Snow, both of whom were ousted from the job by the White House.
 ''I haven't seen any daylight between what I've heard Tim say about China and what I've heard the secretary say,'' said Tony Fratto, a former assistant secretary of the treasury for public affairs and now a White House spokesman. Mr. Fratto added that he would be surprised if any policy differences with Mr. Paulson led to Mr. Adams's decision to resign.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Adams's departure means that yet another person will have to take over the economic talks with China only a few months before the next meeting, which is in May, at a time of mounting criticism in Congress that the dialogue has produced few results other than setting up an elaborate process to talk about the issues. 
 Mr. Paulson told the Senate Banking Committee that he shared the senators' ''frustration'' that the talks had not yet produced results. Treasury officials say he is hoping to produce tangible signs of progress on trade, commercial ties and currency before the next meeting.
 But the failure of the trade talks on the decision to take the issue to the World Trade Organization suggests that the benchmarks already sought by the administration are proving difficult to meet. The move on manufactured goods announced by Ms. Schwab follows another such action last year, in which the United States took China to the World Trade Organization over what Washington regarded as China's failure to import American-made auto parts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%) International Trade and World Market; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HENRY PAULSON (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Timothy Adams; Susan C Schwab; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



59 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Good News on Economy, Except for a Dell Executive

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
LED by growing exports, the economy expanded faster than expected in the last quarter of 2006 and remains strong. That is good news for most people, including most workers, who are seeing robust wage growth, but was not good enough for the chief of one consumer electronics company, who was shoved aside for poor performance.BACK IN THE SADDLE -- After more than a year of mounting problems at Dell, Kevin B. Rollins resigned as chief executive and a director, and its founder and chairman, Michael S. Dell, returned to the corner office.
About a year after Mr. Rollins succeeded Mr. Dell as chief executive in 2004, the company began to disclose a series of problems, including accounting irregularities now under review by federal regulators and prosecutors. Revenue growth also slowed, and Dell lost its lead in the personal computer market to its archrival, Hewlett-Packard. 
 Dell said it expected that its revenue and earnings performance would disappoint investors when it reports fourth-quarter results on March 1.GO-GO GROWTH -- Just after the Commerce Department said the economy grew at a surprisingly fast 3.5 percent annual rate in the final quarter of 2006, the Federal Reserve said that it would leave short-term interest rates unchanged and suggested that it would keep them steady for some time.
 Exports led the economic expansion, increasing at an annual pace of 10 percent and accounting for almost half of the increase in gross domestic product. Consumers did their part, spending 4.4 percent more in the fourth quarter of 2006 than in the period a year earlier.
 Robust spending is likely to continue. The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index edged up in January to its highest level in five years.PRESIDENTIAL CAUTION -- In a rare Wall Street visit by a sitting chief executive -- one sitting in the White House, at least -- President Bush called on corporate boards to tie their chief executives' compensation closer to companies' performance and hold them more accountable for companies' problems.
 His comments, made at the Federal Hall National Memorial in Lower Manhattan, were met with silence from a crowd of business leaders gathered to hear what the White House billed as a ''State of the Economy'' speech. Mr. Bush received a warmer response later, on a surprise visit to the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
 Mr. Bush is scheduled to unveil his annual budget on Monday.PROFIT GUSHER -- Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, said its profit rose 9 percent last year to a record $39.5 billion, the largest annual profit for an American company. 
 Its closest publicly traded competitor, Royal Dutch Shell, reported an annual profit of $25.4 billion, also a record.
 Much of the profit rise was attributable directly to high oil prices, which averaged $66 last year, $10 higher than in 2005, according to Citigroup. Oil prices peaked at $77 in July, but declined amid generally warm weather. They have recently resumed rising.
 With higher energy prices, analysts say the profits bonanza will continue.DEAL OF STEEL -- In another major step in the global consolidation of steel makers, Tata Steel of India agreed to pay at least $12.2 billion for a British-Dutch competitor, the Corus Group, winning a bidding war with Companhia Siderurgica Nacional of Brazil.
 Corus, which was created in 1999 through a merger of British Steel and Royal Hoogovens of the Netherlands, has more than 47,000 workers and plants in Belgium, Britain, France, Germany and the Netherlands.
 Steel makers are buying one another to gain leverage in negotiations for labor and raw material. Mittal Steel, for example, bought another big European company, Arcelor, for $38.3 million last year to become the world's biggest steel maker.
 Mining companies will continue to raise prices for iron ore -- a primary raw material in steel making -- in the near future, economists said.PAPER TRANSACTION -- Newspaper publishers are not alone in being hurt by the rise of the Web. Newsprint makers are suffering mightily, too.
 Two of North America's struggling newsprint makers, Abitibi Consolidated and Bowater, agreed to merge in a stock swap that they said should allow annual operating savings of $250 million.
 Paper makers want to cut costs because energy costs have risen while newsprint consumption in the United States has fallen 26 percent since 1999 because of declining circulation and publishers' attempts to lower costs with narrower newspapers.
 Several modern mills being built in China may flood North America with cheap paper until domestic demand grows enough to absorb their output.GROUNDED -- A long-anticipated consolidation of the American airline industry was set back when US Airways withdrew its $10.2 billion offer for Delta Air Lines.
 US Airways gave up on its hostile takeover after having failed to win over Delta's creditors, including the Boeing Company and the federal pension agency. Delta is in bankruptcy court protection, but said this week that it had arranged $2.5 billion for its exit as soon as this spring.
 Delta will eventually find a merger partner, analysts said. The most likely candidate is Northwest Airlines, which is also operating in bankruptcy.GLOBAL AMBITIONS -- The New York Stock Exchange formed an alliance with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, giving the New York Exchange access to the world's second-largest economy amid a worldwide consolidation of capital markets.
 The nonexclusive pact lets the two markets cooperate on developing financial products, mutual listings and technology.
 The deal in Tokyo comes a few weeks after the Big Board said it was part of a team of investors that bought a 20 percent stake in India's largest financial market, the National Stock Exchange in Mumbai.
 The New York and Tokyo markets could merge after the Japanese exchange becomes a public company in 2009.MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Jan. 27 through Feb. 2:1. Your Money: A Contrarian View: Save Less and Still Retire With Enough 2. Spending: 24 Rolls of Toilet Paper, a Tub of Salsa and a Plasma TV 3. Levi's Turns to Suing Its Rivals 4. 'Dreamgirls' Banked on Best Picture, and Lost 5. Preaching From the Ballmer Pulpit Links are at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush spoke at the Federal Hall National Memorial in Lower Manhattan this week. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); AIRLINES (84%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BONDS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ACCOUNTING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%) United States Economy; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Credit; Interest Rates; Boards of Directors; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Company Reports; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newsprint; United States Economy; Airlines and Airplanes; Stocks and Bonds; Steel and Iron; Ethics

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (60%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%) Federal Reserve System; Exxon Mobil; Tata Steel; Corus Group Plc; Abitibi-Consolidated Inc; Bowater Inc ; US Airways; Delta Air Lines Inc; Nyse Group; Tokyo Stock Exchange; Dell Inc

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (60%); RDSA (AMS) (60%); RDS.B (NYSE) (60%); RDS.A (NYSE) (60%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (85%); MICHAEL DELL (72%) Mark A Stein; Kevin B Rollins; Michael S Dell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



60 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Chirac's Iran Gaffe Reveals A Strategy: Containment

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
When President Jacques Chirac said this week that he would not be overly worried if Iran obtained a nuclear weapon, he inadvertently said aloud what some policy makers and arms control experts have been whispering: that the world may have to learn to live with a nuclear Iran.
 Mr. Chirac quickly retracted his words, and Elysee Palace reaffirmed France's commitment to preventing Iran from becoming a nuclear-weapons state. But in veering from the prepared script and letting the veil of caution fall, he became the first Western leader to imply that containment of a nuclear Iran is preferable to other options, especially war. 
''Jacques Chirac said things that many experts are saying around the world, even in the United States,'' Hubert Vedrine, foreign minister from 1997 to 2002, said on LCI television on Friday. ''That is to say, that a country that possesses the bomb does not use it and automatically enters the system of deterrence and doesn't take absurd risks.'' 
 The logic of the argument goes this way: Iran is making enriched uranium, which can be used either for making electricity or, with additional enrichment, nuclear weapons. If Iran masters that process for military purposes, it may be able to build a bomb or two in the next few years. 
 Under that thinking, the only realistic goal is to slow down the process as long as possible. But even if Iran has the bomb, it will be subject to the same classic doctrine of nuclear deterrence that restrained the nuclear powers during the cold war. 
 ''There is a growing realization that the international community is failing to stop Iran from acquiring a uranium enrichment capability,'' said Mark Fitzpatrick, a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. ''The U.S. government wouldn't accept it, but it's becoming a fait accompli. Can the next step -- a nuclear weapon -- be prevented? Chirac skipped over that question and cut to the chase in saying, 'We can live with a nuclear-armed Iran.' '' 
 The Bush administration has made stopping an Iranian bomb the object of an increasingly aggressive policy. But administration officials are concerned that the Iranians have learned from North Korea -- which ignored Washington's warnings and detonated a nuclear device last year. Iran, they fear, is on the same path.
 So the administration is pressing reluctant European governments to curtail support for exports to Iran and to block transactions and freeze the assets of some Iranian companies. In Iraq, the administration has pursued Iranian agents it believes to be involved in attacks against American and allied forces. 
 Among the Europeans, there is an overwhelming consensus that the American-led war in Iraq has been a disaster and that Washington's Iran strategy could end in an even more destabilizing military confrontation. 
 It was Mr. Chirac who led Europe's opposition to the war in Iraq, and in an I-told-you-so speech last month he said that his predictions that the war would spread more chaos, regional instability and terrorism had come true. 
 In his remarks this week, he could have been speaking for most of Europe when he said that what he called ''the Iraq affair'' had ''shifted red lines'' and made the region dangerous. 
 Even inside the Bush administration, some officials have acknowledged over the past year that Iran eventually may get a nuclear weapon -- or at least the technology and components to assemble one quickly. In the United States, the view that the world might have to coexist with a nuclear Iran was laid out in an ambitious study by two government-financed scholars at the National Defense University in 2005. 
 ''Can the United States live with a nuclear-armed Iran?'' the report asked. ''Despite its rhetoric, it may have no choice.'' The report added that the costs of rolling back Iran's nuclear program ''may be higher than the costs of deterring and containing a nuclear Iran.'' 
 In a sense, Mr. Chirac was trying to make just that point when he said in an interview with three publications, including The New York Times, that a bomb would do Iran little good because it would never be able to use it without facing swift retaliation. 
 Mr. Chirac also stressed his belief that Iran should not be completely humiliated and isolated, but encouraged to become a positive regional player. ''How can we impose sufficiently strong constraints on Iran?'' he asked in the Monday interview. Calling the Islamic Republic ''a bit fragile,'' he said, ''One has to know what Iran can withstand or not.''
 The following day, in retracting his statements about a nuclear Iran, he stressed the importance of having a ''dialogue'' with Iran, which he said had an important role to play in helping to stabilize the region. 
 In the past several years, Mr. Chirac has tried to navigate a middle course between the United States and Iran. 
 It was France, in the months after the invasion of Iraq in 2003, that conceived a diplomatic initiative joined by Britain and Germany in which Tehran would freeze its uranium enrichment activities in exchange for political, economic and technological incentives. 
 The European trio suspected that the United States was moving toward an open confrontation with Iran, much the way it did with Iraq. 
 But the initiative failed, even after the United States, Russia and China joined in. Sanctions, even in the unlikely eventuality that they can be tightened substantially, are not likely to be tough enough to change Iran's behavior. 
 Tehran insists that its nuclear program is for peaceful energy purposes. It views United Nations sanctions to punish it for enriching uranium as unjust and a violation of its rights as a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. It justifies its presence in Shiite-controlled Iraq as necessary to preserve its own national security interests and to protect itself should Iraq dissolve into chaos. 
 On Thursday, Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, said that his nation was becoming a ''superpower'' and that the United Nations sanctions would not deter it from pursuing its nuclear program. 
 Indeed, the Iranians are well aware that possession of the bomb would immediately transform the country into the dominant power in the Middle East, give it even greater influence over Iraq and allow it to threaten and blackmail its enemies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Atomic Weapons

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (93%) Elaine Sciolino; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iran; France; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



61 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: China's Leader Visits Sudan and Focuses on Growing Economic Ties

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
President Hu Jintao of China on Friday pledged a new level of cooperation between his country and Sudan, China's third largest African trading partner, at the start of his first visit to Sudan. 
 Western leaders had hoped that Mr. Hu would use his trip to press President Omar Hassan al-Bashir to accept United Nations peacekeepers in Darfur, the western region of Sudan, and resolve the four-year conflict there.
Mr. Hu told Mr. Bashir that ''Darfur is a part of Sudan, and you have to resolve this problem,'' said a person who attended the talks between the leaders on Friday.
 But Mr. Hu's two-day visit, which includes a trip to a Chinese-built oil refinery, is expected to focus more on growing economic links than on bringing peace to western Sudan.
 ''I am confident this visit will facilitate a strengthening of the traditional friendship between China and Sudan and bring cooperation between the countries to a new level,'' Mr. Hu said in a statement, which also mentioned strengthening economic ties.
 The West is concerned by what it views as China's ''no strings attached'' aid policy throughout Africa. Western officials say it could undermine efforts to link good governance, accountability and protection of human rights to financial aid and cooperation.
 China's approach has raised special concerns over Sudan. The United States in particular has pressed China to use its economic muscle to persuade the government to end atrocities in Darfur, where four years of war have killed 200,000 people and driven 2.5 million from their homes.
 Hundreds of people waving banners that read ''Welcome Hu Jintao, welcome to Sudan'' lined the streets of the capital, which was festooned with Sudanese and Chinese flags.
 Thousands of Chinese expatriates live in Sudan, working on construction projects and in Sudan's budding oil industry.
 At the refinery Mr. Hu was scheduled to visit, about 50 miles north of Khartoum, hundreds of uniformed Chinese workers lined up to greet him. Security was tight at the site, a compound of sparkling new buildings, tarmac roads and rows of new cars. The refinery processes around 100,000 barrels of crude oil per day.
 Sudan's Islamic government, under American sanctions, has relied on its Asian ally to expand oil production to 330,000 barrels per day and build key infrastructure like dams and roads.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (88%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); TRENDS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%) Hu Jintao (Pres); Omar Hassan Al- (Pres) Bashir

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (91%) SUDAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%) Sudan; China; Africa; Darfur (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



62 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: As Titillating as a Budget Memo, Gossip Blossoms in Washington

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
Some big doings in the nation's capital this week.
 Item: Dennis Hastert, the former House speaker, had his gallbladder removed.
Item: Karl Rove was spotted at a performance of ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf'' at the Kennedy Center.
 Item: Representative William Lacy Clay, a Missouri Democrat, got his braces taken off. 
 Item: A photograph of Paul Wolfowitz, president of the World Bank, revealed holes in his socks.
 Item: Senator Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican, nearly committed the etiquette-crime of entering the Senate chamber without a tie (he found a loaner at the last minute).
 As the globe warms, Iraq burns and a presidential campaign heats up, Washington finds itself red-hot in gossip, or what passes for such here. Never in memory has the political world been so awash in items about every little burp and wart and appendectomy of our nation's leaders.
 Ten publications carry a total of 14 columns focusing on political tidbits that appear regularly, up from three columns a decade ago.
 They include the Reliable Source and In the Loop columns, The Washington Post's entrenched offerings (the paper's Web site started a new enterprise, the Sleuth, last month); In the Know and Under the Dome, which dish in the tabloid The Hill; and Heard on the Hill, which appears in Roll Call.
 The Examiner offers Yeas and Nays, while the latest entry, The Politico, nourishes its politerati with Shenanigans and the Crypt.
 So what does this all mean?
 ''It means I have to spend a lot more of my time fielding calls and e-mails from gossip columnists,'' said a slightly exasperated Jim Manley, the top communications aide to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader.
 Mr. Manley had just finished responding to an e-mail message from a Roll Call reporter about whether Mr. Reid knew the date of Valentine's Day. (That day's Politico had broken the Watergate-like development that Mr. Reid had made a remark suggesting he thought it was February 12.)
 As of now, Washington's gossip is tame compared to the sexier, snarkier variety from Hollywood and New York -- that is, unless anyone considers it sexy that Representative Nita M. Lowey, a New York Democrat, is suffering from inflammation of the fascia (or foot problem, The Hill reported).
 The most recent salacious Washington story, the Mark Foley intern case, was more squirm-provoking than fun. It is hard to recall a good, old-fashioned, career-killing scoop in any Washington gossip page. 
 That will change as the ''Washington gossip wars'' intensify, promises Chuck Conconi, a longtime editor at Washingtonian magazine who for many years wrote a gossip column in The Post. 
 ''If you're in Hollywood and you write something about Brad Pitt that turns out to be wrong, so what, it will probably help him,'' Mr. Conconi said. But in Washington, he said, ''If you're wrong, it can end a senator's career. So politics is going to breed more caution.'' At least for now. 
 Chuck Todd, editor of the online political clearinghouse Hotline, calls the gossip phenomenon ''pack gossip journalism,'' a byproduct of the celebrification of politics and the attendant proliferation of media to cover it. ''Look, Washington is Hollywood for ugly people for a reason, and this reflects it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Todd said Hotline was selective in the quality of material it elected to republish from the various and multiplying outlets. 
 ''We're only going to cover the Denny Hastert gallbladder removal story once,'' he vowed. ''We're not going to cover every angle of the Denny Hastert gallbladder story.''
 And thank goodness for restraint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WRITERS (68%) United States Politics and Government; Gossip; News and News Media; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (58%) Washington Post

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (76%); KARL ROVE (72%); NORM COLEMAN (57%); NITA M LOWEY (56%); WILLIAM LACY CLAY JR (56%) Mark Leibovich

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



63 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Don't Let Iran Become the Next War

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Bullying Iran'' (editorial, Feb. 1):
 Having ignored the Iraq Study Group, President Bush seems intent upon betting America's chips on a military solution in the Middle East instead of one that offers more robust and effective diplomatic, economic and humanitarian efforts. 
 If the addition of American troops in Iraq is the president's response to the Iraq Study Group report and the midterm elections, then one can conclude that his saber-rattling with Iran is preparation for raising the stakes again if Iraq continues to deteriorate. 
 After allowing the president to ''double down'' repeatedly despite the failures of his strategy, judgment and imagination, observers need to tell him now emphatically that he is playing the wrong game. D. C. MontagueChattanooga, Tenn., Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 As part of the Bush administration's decision to authorize a ''kill or capture'' policy for Iranian operatives inside Iraq, it is reported that United States officials are also preparing more aggressive moves to undermine Iranian interests among Shiites in western Afghanistan. These interests include longstanding political, economic and cultural ties.
 Such a move would be ill advised. It would certainly complicate and likely prove counterproductive to President Hamid Karzai's efforts to normalize and stabilize relations with his western neighbor.
 Moreover, opening an Afghan front against Iran does not appear appropriate or necessary. As the Iraq Study Group pointed out, during the Taliban era ''the United States and Iran cooperated in Afghanistan.'' This cooperation included strong opposition to the Taliban in the United Nations' ''6 plus 2'' forum and a joint recognition of the need to combat the rising threat of the Afghan drug trade. 
 The two countries collaborated during the post-Taliban Bonn Conference. More recently, Iran's involvement in Afghanistan has been described by one United States official as somewhere between helpful and benign.Karl F. InderfurthMcLean, Va., Feb. 2, 2007The writer served as assistant secretary of state for South Asian affairs from 1997 to 2001.To the Editor:
 My eyes almost popped out when I read the headline of your editorial ''Bullying Iran.'' 
 Here is a state that is responsible for unbelievable violations of diplomatic immunity, numerous acts of terrorism, probable violation of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty; that calls for wiping a neighboring country off the map; that interferes in the internal politics of its neighbors; that ends official assemblies, political and religious, with chants of ''Death to America!'' and that, you have reported, may be facilitating the killing of American soldiers.
 When President Bush declares that the agents of such a state who strike us should expect to be struck back at, you call this ''bullying,'' as if Iran were an innocent youngster in the schoolyard. Yours is a policy of appeasement.Kevin S. FogartyCincinnati, Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 I agree with your editorial in the sense that there are no good options regarding Iran, minus a diplomatic miracle that neither side seems headed to. 
 It is a shame, as Iran poses a much greater threat to America and our friends in the region than Iraq ever did. Yet because of the botched invasion of Iraq, our credibility is down when we need it the most. 
 Iran cannot under any circumstances be allowed to have nuclear capabilities; let's hope that it can be stopped with something less than another war.Steven M. ClaytonOcean, N.J., Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 Before the invasion of Iraq, I was one of many who worried about the consequences of imposing our ideals on an ancient, abiding culture. Bombastic threats and braggadocio were continually heard from our leaders before the war, so it is disconcerting to see President Bush continue again in the same vein with Iran. 
 It is clear in our fourth year in Iraq that the Iraqi people do not appreciate or wish our intervention and that we are unwelcome there. 
 It is one thing to wish to demonstrate the benefits of democracy by our good example. It is quite another to attempt to foist our beliefs and values on another people.Tim BolandLake Stevens, Wash., Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 It seems that you are not alone in your correct diagnosis that President Bush and his aides seem to be grossly misreading Iran's domestic politics. 
 As the new chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, said (front page, Jan. 20), ''I don't think that policy makers in this administration particularly understand Iran.'' 
 We hope that, as you also suggested, Congress firmly stops the administration from entering into another adventurous and disastrous war of choice, this time with Iran.Najmedin MeshkatiLos Angeles, Feb. 1, 2007To the Editor:
 After the invasion of Iraq in 2003, we learned that the Bush administration is willing to make weak and unsubstantiated claims about the intentions and capabilities of other countries and to use distortions and baseless propaganda to manipulate the national dialogue about our security. 
 The administration's threats against Iran appear to be following the same script. But in addition, the administration is deflecting attention from its own failure in Iraq. 
 In the coming weeks, we will undoubtedly hear more allegations about Iran. But this time, it's incumbent on the media to scrutinize the administration's claims. Most important, Congress and the media should find out why the administration is pushing for a third war in the Middle East. David KenosianBerwyn, Pa., Feb. 1, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Brad Blondes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WRITERS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); IMMUNITY (72%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States International Relations

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) D C Montague; Karl F Inderfurth; Steven M Clayton; Tim Boland; Najmedin Meshkati; David Kenosian; George W (Pres) Bush; Kevin S Fogarty

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (79%) Iraq; Iran; Afghanistan ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2007



64 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Miami Vivace: New Arts Center Opens Its Arms

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
WHATEVER else anyone may say about the new Carnival Center for the Performing Arts here, it is certainly integrated into the surrounding urban landscape. Biscayne Boulevard, a historic downtown thoroughfare, runs right through the middle of the place.
 Designed by the architect Cesar Pelli, the $446 million Carnival Center occupies 570,000 square feet on both sides of the boulevard. Its two main buildings, the Sanford and Dolores Ziff Ballet Opera House and the Knight Concert Hall, are connected by an elegant pedestrian bridge, and the courtyards of these enormous edifices and the stretch of Biscayne Boulevard that runs between them are paved with the same handsome reddish bricks to form a continuous outdoor plaza. When the Carnival Center opened in October, the street was closed to traffic for a day; a free multicultural festival was held in the plaza, with tango bands, Haitian music, salsa, hip-hop and klezmer. More than 25,000 people attended. 
Naturally, the opera house and the concert hall are the major attractions, and last weekend proved an opportune time for a visit. On Friday night the Cleveland Orchestra, as part of a three-week residency this season, played works by Osvaldo Golijov, Alberto Ginastera and Mahler in the concert hall. The following night the Florida Grand Opera introduced a new production of Puccini's ''Manon Lescaut'' in the opera house, which is also now home to the Miami City Ballet.
 During the two decades it took to make the dream of this center a reality, three separate economic impact statements were commissioned to convince civic and corporate leaders that it could revitalize a drab section of downtown Miami. Few such ventures come in on budget, and this one had a cost overrun of $102 million. 
 And there was a casualty along the way: In 2003 the Florida Philharmonic Orchestra, a respected ensemble serving Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach Counties, and a major proponent of the project from the start, declared bankruptcy and suspended operations. The Carnival Center now has an inviting and intimate 2,000-seat concert hall but no resident orchestra.
 The Cleveland Orchestra is to return every season for a three-week residency. And the New World Symphony, the acclaimed orchestra academy run by the conductor Michael Tilson Thomas, will present major programs in the hall. But Mr. Thomas's orchestra of top-notch young players is based in Miami Beach, and he plans to build a hall and teaching center, designed by Frank Gehry, near its current home, the Lincoln Theater. So for now most of the programs presented at Knight Concert Hall will be concerts by visiting orchestras, one-time events (like a recent performance of Mr. Golijov's ''Pasion Segun San Marcos'') and performances by jazz ensembles, ethnic music groups and popular artists.
 Cultural insiders in Miami report that there is still bitterness among musicians over the demise of the Philharmonic. The overall annual budget for the Cleveland residency, which involves teaching workshops and outreach programs as well as concerts, is $3.5 million, most of it raised from contributors in Miami and Cleveland. An inability to raise a stopgap $2.5 million finally sank the Florida Philharmonic.
 Still, the Cleveland Orchestra concert was nearly sold out. As a gesture to Miami's large Spanish-speaking population, the orchestra's music director, Franz Welser-Most, began the program with works by Argentine composers.
 Mr. Golijov's ''Last Round'' takes the sound of a tango played on the accordionlike bandoneon and reconceives it for a bustling string orchestra heavily fortified with basses. Ginastera's spunky 1953 ''Variaciones Concertantes'' incorporates evocations of Argentine folk music into a lean, rigorous and harmonically astringent 20-minute piece. But the highlight of the program was Mr. Welser-Most's clear-headed and vibrant account of Mahler's Symphony No. 1, however curious it was to hear several flubbed solos from such a formidable orchestra. 
 In what is becoming a trend, the stage of the concert hall extends into the auditorium. Rows of seats along the wall behind the stage can accommodate either a chorus or 200 extra patrons. A large organ loft, covered by a beautifully designed hibiscus curtain, awaits the purchase of an organ, whenever a donor comes along.
 After one hearing I hesitate to pronounce on the hall's acoustics, designed by Russell Johnson of Artec. Mr. Johnson has received wide-ranging reactions to his work. Like Verizon Hall at the Kimmel Center in Philadelphia, another Johnson project, the Knight Concert Hall auditorium is flanked on either side by reverberation chambers with 82 huge concrete doors, covered with fabric and wood, which can be open or closed. This design element allows the hall to be ''tuned,'' as Mr. Johnson puts it, just like an instrument. Getting the tuning right, which can take many months, is bound to be a subjective call. 
 Overall, the Cleveland Orchestra sounded full-bodied and clear, though the acoustics seemed to favor the lower-register instruments, especially the rich basses. The soft, sustained high violins in the opening of the Mahler lacked shimmer. The sound was pure but a bit thin. Yet the symphony's brassy finale had plenty of clarion presence. 
 I had no problem with the acoustics Mr. Johnson designed for the Ziff Ballet Opera House. This 2,400-seat auditorium is tall, with four tiers of balconies, but not deep. Even in the back of the top balcony the seats are just 139 feet from the stage. From my central seat on the main floor, the voices came through clearly, and the orchestra, conducted by Angelo Cavallaro, had warmth and presence. 
 The old-fashioned production of ''Manon Lescaut'' from the Montreal Opera, directed by Bernard Uzan, realistically if somewhat drearily, evokes the late-18th-century French setting for this story of young Manon, who falls impulsively in love with the ardent and penniless Chevalier des Grieux but has a fatal weakness for jewels and finery. Puccini's first big success, ''Manon Lescaut'' teems with impassioned emotions and soaring vocal lines. 
 The lovely French soprano Sylvie Valayre brought temperament, intensity and stylistic insight to her portrayal of Manon. But in full-voiced outbursts, her sound turned raw and wobbly. The des Grieux was a hefty young tenor, Hugh Smith, who sang with impressive power and belted out the top notes. But his singing was blunt and muscular. The deftly staged crowd scenes allowed the company's robust chorus to shine. 
 Projected titles provided simultaneous English and Spanish translations, an essential policy in this bilingual city. In the lobbies during intermission, smartly dressed operagoers of all ages conversed in Spanish.
 Drawing in Spanish-speaking residents in South Florida has been a defining mission of the Carnival Center from its inception. The complex includes the Studio Theater, a black-box performance space that can accommodate 200 people, which has proved a popular place for ethnic music and dance events, and the Peacock Education Center, a large workshop and classroom. 
 Still, it may take time to build audiences. An article published in The Miami Herald last Sunday reported that, three months and 100 performances into the center's first season, ticket sales have been lackluster, some $900,000 below projections, forcing administrators ''to find new ways of connecting with Miami audiences.'' On average, the article said, 59 percent of available tickets have been sold, down from the 64 percent the center's directors anticipated. Classical music events have sold the best. The Florida Grand Opera had a major hit with its production of Verdi's ''Aida'' last fall, featuring the soprano Angela M. Brown, a star in the making, in the title role. 
 Attendance may be affected by stories of parking hassles. Although the center is a block away from a major bus terminal, most people use cars to get there. There are parking lots in the vicinity, but the Carnival Center's garage is a valet-only operation, and after the symphony concert, a long line of patrons waited outside on the balmy night for valets. 
 The Cleveland Orchestra tour managers had a brainstorm: they provided free cookies, soft drinks and water, which the queued-up concertgoers happily accepted.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top right, Knight Concert Hall at the Carnival Center for the Performing Arts in Miami
right, Franz Welser-Most leading the Cleveland Orchestra, the University of Miami Frost Chorale, the Master Chorale of South Florida and soloists in Beethoven's Ninth. (Photo by Robin Hill/Carnival Center for the Performing Arts, Miami)
 (Photo by Roger Mastroianni) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); OPERA (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); DANCE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); BALLET (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); RAP MUSIC (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%) Music; Carnival Center for the Performing Arts (Miami)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (82%) Florida Philharmonic Orchestra; Cleveland Symphony Orchestra

PERSON: Anthony Tommasini; Cesar Pelli

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Miami (Fla) 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



65 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: KABUL, OLD AND NEW

 BODY:
To the Editor: Joshua Hammer's ''Mysteries of Kabul'' (Jan. 21) brought to mind my visit to that city during the summer of 1976, when I was part of a small group of Fulbright-Hayes summer grantees traveling throughout Pakistan. At the end of our trip, a friend and I boarded a bus that went through the Khyber Pass, stopping en route in Jalalabad for an early lunch at a famous kebab restaurant with a rooftop kitchen. 
 The bus let us off in a vacant lot in the middle of Kabul and we found our way to a small nearby hotel that was recommended to us. After checking in, we immediately asked about exchanging money. The desk clerk told us that he could not exchange any money and that the banks were closed (we thought that was odd since it was early afternoon). Not more than 30 minutes after we retreated to our room to consider our financial dilemma, someone knocked on our door and announced that ''the money man'' was in the lobby. 
 In the lobby, we saw a well-fed man in Western dress who asked if we wanted to exchange money. My friend said yes, and the money man pulled out from his pocket an enormous roll of bills that was at least four inches wide, and composed of all manner of international currency -- British pounds, German marks, French francs, American dollars, etc. It was certainly the most civilized black market exchange I could have envisioned.D. J. DruckerChevy Chase, Md. To The Editor: It seems that I was in Kabul at about the same time as Mr. Hammer. 
 My greatest fear while there was when I was being led through a very muddy, almost impassable alleyway to the house of my guide's uncle. I remember thinking of Daniel Pearl, who was led in probably the same manner through Karachi. But I came out all right without being hurt, or hurting my guide's feelings by refusing to meet his uncle, a colonel of the Afghan Army. The uncle was a gentleman. 
 The United States dollar is the only foreign money accepted in Afghanistan, and I was running low on cash. So my greatest joy was finding an A.T.M. in Kabul that disbursed cash in dollar bills at no fee, since it had just been installed two days earlier as an experiment.
 I suggest that travelers visit Afghanistan while they still can. I feel that it's quite possible that the Taliban or authorities from Inter-Services Intelligence in Pakistan will become the de facto rulers of the country soon.Kamal ChakravertyDouglaston, N.Y. To the Editor: In his otherwise fascinating article on Afghanistan, Mr. Hammer made no comment whatsoever on the advisability of women traveling to this long-overlooked country. Clearly the photographs and the commentary relate only to men. As an adventurous woman, I have long wished to travel to this country. It would have been refreshing to read if such a trip is possible, and if so, how.Mimi Wallace New York To the Editor: After reading the travelogue on Kabul, and then the front-page headlines in the same day's newspaper (''At Border, Signs of Pakistani Role in Taliban Surge''), I can only conclude that this was not a travel article meant to be taken seriously. Why don't you give us some in-depth travelogues on places we can go to in reasonable safety? This way, we can give the soldiers in Afghanistan a break from having to keep an eye out for hapless, clueless tourists.Louise Decarl AdlerSan Diego

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (74%); TALIBAN (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); BRITISH POUND (64%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: D J Drucker; Kamal Chakraverty; Mimi Wallace; Louise Decarl Adler; Joshua Hammer

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (90%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (58%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Kabul (Afghanistan); Afghanistan 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



66 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Model for Afghanistan

 BODY:
There is no question that Afghanistan needs to wage a far more effective fight against opium trafficking if it ever hopes to achieve a stable peace. But Colombia -- another United States ally whose narcotics trade is helping finance a lethal insurgency -- is not the model to follow. 
 Unfortunately, that is exactly what America's top-ranking military officer, Gen. Peter Pace, recently called for, after the nomination of Washington's current ambassador in Bogota, William Wood, to be the new American ambassador in Kabul.
The limited gains Colombia has achieved in recent years have been offset by an overly generous amnesty program for right-wing paramilitary leaders and drug traffickers, which has seriously compromised the rule of law. And American aid has been disproportionately directed into military and police programs, leaving far too little to promote alternative livelihoods for Colombia's farmers. Despite all the money spent, the amount of land planted with coca crops has risen and the net harvest has been reduced only slightly. Afghanistan's problems will not be solved by copying these mistakes. 
 Last year Afghanistan produced 90 percent of the world's opium -- a rise of almost 50 percent from the year before. The exploding drug trade is not just a problem for Europe, where most of the heroin produced from that opium ends up. It is a major destabilizing force inside Afghanistan. 
 Drug money, which represents roughly 35 percent of the country's gross domestic product, is fueling government corruption, financing warlords -- some pro-government and some pro-Taliban -- and adding to a dangerous disillusionment with President Hamid Karzai's government.
 Most of the American aid sent to Kabul since 2001 has gone into security programs and short-term relief and reconstruction, not the long-term development on which lasting security depends. This has left Afghan farmers prey to drug traffickers who often supply the only credit available, with repayment expected in opium poppies. 
 And with no visible help coming from Kabul or Washington toward alleviating crushing poverty, people in Afghanistan's southern provinces are beginning to look favorably toward a resurgent Taliban. The significantly increased American aid package for Afghanistan announced last month needs to focus more on development. Mr. Wood needs to bring a different set of priorities to Afghanistan, not simply repeat the mistakes Washington has made in Colombia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); OPIUM (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); TALIBAN (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); HEROIN (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); AMNESTY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (64%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Editorials; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Opium; Amnesties and Pardons; United States Armament and Defense; United States Foreign Service

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) William (Amb) Wood

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (95%) Afghanistan; Colombia; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



67 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting a Minimum-Wage Axiom

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
A GREAT deal of contemporary economics rests on the understanding that if you jack up the price -- say, of a laptop, a vacation in France or a pedicure-- demand for that good or service will surely fall. 
 As Congress moves toward approval of the first increase in the federal minimum wage in a decade, some economists have warned that this axiom applies to minimum wage workers, too -- that mandating an increase in pay is likely to reduce demand for the services of those at the bottom of the economic heap, throwing some of them out of work. 
But though economists still maintain that the axiom is true, it may not be entirely relevant in today's economy. There are good reasons to believe that it would take a very large rise in the current minimum wage to exact a significant toll on jobs. Raising the floor on pay to $7.25 an hour from $5.15, as Congress is considering, is unlikely to do much damage. Still, American history offers many examples of how raising the wages of low-paid workers will provide a powerful incentive for employers to eliminate their jobs.
 In the early 1960s, for instance, roughly 45,000 seasonal workers descended on California fields each year for the harvest of 2.2 million tons of processing tomatoes -- the kind used in ketchup and canned foods. Most of these laborers were immigrants, arriving under the Bracero program, a government plan in effect since World War II to bring Mexicans to work in the fields. 
 In December 1964, the government ended the program. Farm wages jumped and growers were provided with a compelling reason to replace workers with machines. Within five years, scientists and engineers at the University of California, Davis, had designed an oblong tomato that ripened uniformly, along with a mechanical harvester that could collect the tomatoes in a single pass through the field. According to Philip Martin, professor of agriculture and resource economics at the Davis campus, the number of workers hired for the harvest fell 90 percent. 
 These days, 5,000 workers operate machines that harvest more than 12 million tons of processing tomatoes. This represents a great leap in productivity -- but it also suggests the disruptive effects of a sudden rise in the wages of workers at the bottom of the income scale. 
 Most economists believe that imposing a minimum wage will generally increase joblessness at the bottom. More than 45 percent of respondents in a 2000 survey of members of the American Economic Association said they ''mainly agreed'' that minimum wages increased unemployment among young and unskilled workers, and an additional 28 percent responded that they ''agreed with provisos,'' which were not spelled out.
 Still, the consensus behind this bit of orthodoxy has weakened over time. Over the last few decades there have been several increases in federal and state minimum wages, with little impact on the level of employment. This has led economists in the last decade to reconsider the link between wages and jobs at the bottom. ''The experience we have suggests that if there were a change in the range that is currently being talked about, it would be hard to detect any employment effects,'' said Lawrence Katz of Harvard, one of a handful of economists whose work in the 1990s challenged the prevailing view that raising minimum wages reduced jobs.
 Alan Krueger, an economist at Princeton whose work also challenged earlier analyses of the impact of minimum wages on jobs, noted that while studies in the 1960s and '70s seemed to relate gains in the minimum wage to falling teenage employment, the link weakened when using more recent data. That's because the minimum wage has fallen substantially in real terms, and not many workers earn so little money. Those who do are much more difficult to replace than the tomato pickers were in the '60s.
 Mr. Krueger pointed out that the conventional view assumed that it didn't cost employers anything to replace a worker with somebody or something cheaper. In real life, by contrast, there is a cost to hiring; turnover is expensive. Unless the jump in the minimum wage were very large, employers would be unlikely to respond by letting workers go.
 The number of workers earning the minimum wage has shriveled in the United States. In 2005, fewer than 2 million people earned no more than the federal minimum wage, down from 4.4 million as recently as 1998. These workers were concentrated overwhelmingly in local service industries, which are relatively insulated from competition with imports, and in occupations that are relatively difficult to mechanize. For instance, virtually no minimum-wage workers were left in manufacturing. In 2005, according to government figures, only 39,000 manufacturing workers were earning no more than the minimum wage, down from 299,000 in 1998. 
 By contrast, in 2005, about 1.2 million workers in the leisure and hospitality industry were earning no more than the minimum wage: restaurant cooks, hotel maids and others, accounting for almost 64 percent of all minimum-wage workers in the country.
 Unlike a manufacturer, a McDonald's in the United States will not relocate to China when its labor costs rise. And until a machine is developed to adequately saute the vegetables and toss the salad in America's sit-down restaurants, it will be hard for employers to replace them, even if Congress agrees to increase their pay to $7.25 an hour from $5.15 over a couple of years. 
 IN one study, Mr. Krueger and David Card of the University of California, Berkeley, found that in the eight months after New Jersey raised its minimum wage to $5.05 an hour from $4.25 in 1992, employment in fast-food restaurants grew slightly faster there than in Pennsylvania, where the minimum wage didn't change.
 If there is a consequence to an increase in the federal minimum wage, it will more likely be seen in prices. Mr. Krueger and Mr. Card found that prices in restaurants in their study rose about 4 percent faster in New Jersey than they did in Pennsylvania. 
 But that's unlikely to induce customers to stop eating fast food. If labor accounts for about 30 percent of total costs in fast-food chains, even assuming that everybody at the restaurant works for the minimum wage, an increase of 40 percent, before inflation, is likely to add less than 10 percent to the price of your burger over two years.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''At the Bottom Of the Wage Scale''In 2005, 1.9 million people, or 2.5 percent of all hourly workers, earned no more than the minimum wage. A majority of minimum-wage jobs were in the leisure and hospitality industry or in other service industries.HOURLY WORK FORCE, 2005Above minimum wage: 97.5%ALL HOURLY WORKERS: 75.6 millionEmployers of minimum-wage workers, by industryLeisure and hospitality: 63.8%Wholesale and retail trade: 9.6Education and health services: 6.7Professional and business services: 3.1Other services: 4.6Manufacturing: 2.1Agriculture and related industries: 0.8Public sector: 5.3Other: 3.9MINIMUM WAGE OR BELOW: 1.9 millionFigures may not add to 100% because of rounding.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); FARM LABOR (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); SEASONAL WORKERS (71%); HISTORY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



68 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; NOVELTIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: These Backseat Drivers Are Moving Up Front

BYLINE: By ANNE EISENBERG. 
E-mail: novelties@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
HOW'S your driving? If you're ready for a blunt, detailed answer to that question, computer-based gadgets selling for $200 or less will provide it. 
 The devices plug into a car's engine control computer and keep track of any bad behavior you might display behind the wheel -- lead-footed acceleration that wastes gasoline, for example. Some of these devices display the data immediately on a gauge, so you can watch your car's miles per gallon fall when you speed up. Others store the facts on a computer chip, to be downloaded later and put into charts where, for example, all extreme braking is shown with bright red lines.
Two of the electronic backseat drivers were recently updated to keep even closer tabs on the behavior of both engine and driver: the CarChip from Davis Instruments of Hayward, Calif., (www.davisnet.com); and the ScanGauge II by Linear-Logic of Mesa, Ariz., (www.scangauge.com). Users who have the patience to study these displays' revelations may soon find themselves easing up on the gas pedal, not only to improve their fuel economy but also to add fewer molecules of carbon dioxide to the earth's atmosphere. 
 The CarChip that I tried (Model E/X with Alarm, $150 to $199) monitors a driver's speed every second and has an alarm that can be set, for instance, to ring whenever the car is going more than 70 miles an hour.
 The CarChip does not display its data while recording it. Instead, it accumulates the information and then downloads it to a Windows-based computer by way of a U.S.B. connection. The findings can be displayed on a screen or in a report, color-coded to show errors like jackrabbit starts (solid blue lines). 
 The ScanGauge II ($169.95) does not download its data. It shows the numbers it collects instantly, on a small monitor. The digital readout, for example, shows throttle position, coolant temperature, intake air temperature and many other details of interest not only to those who want to conserve gasoline, but also to those who like to know exactly what's going on under the hood.
 The gadgets plug into a socket, typically under the dashboard, that mechanics use to check a car's emissions system. This port has been installed in most cars and light trucks in the United States since 1996. Before buying either of these gadgets, make sure your car has this diagnostic socket, called an OBD II port. The manufacturers of both devices have information on incompatible vehicles at their Web sites.
 Installation is simple, but there is a small complication: First, you have to find the port. It is supposed to be within three feet of the driver, but that's a fairly large range if you are lying on your back with a flashlight, peering under the dashboard on the driver's side, inspecting the fuse box (nope, wrong place), and finally starting over again on the passenger side (there it is!).
 You can avoid such time-wasting searches by going to the National OBD Clearing House Web site, maintained by Weber State University in Ogden, Utah (www.autocenter.weber.edu/OBD-CH/vehicleoems.asp). Find your car model on the list, click on it and get the exact location of the port -- in my case, ''under the passenger's dash next to the center console.''
 Once the port is found, the devices plug in easily. The CarChip, about the size of a 9-volt battery, begins flashing immediately and logs data until you pull it out. The software that transforms the data into neat reports comes on a CD and installs quickly. The model I tried, the E/X, keeps track of data for up to 300 hours of traveling and then automatically begins overwriting the older data.
 The CarChip provides a wealth of information. It can tell you when the ignition was turned on and off and the time and date of each trip. That is why some people use these devices for keeping an eye on others' driving. Fleet owners, for example, put them in vans to monitor the driving habits of employees; anxious parents use them in the cars of their teenage children. 
 The CarChip can be moved from one vehicle to another. Patrick Barrett, director of transportation services at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, has about 100 CarChips that are popped in and out of the more than 430 sedans and vans used by the university. Drivers are told that the vehicles may be equipped with a data recorder.
 The chips offer a relatively inexpensive way to keep an eye on the driving habits of people who use the university's passenger vans and cars, Mr. Barrett said. In addition, they have helped with the occasional diagnostic problem. 
 For instance, one person complained that the engine was stalling when it pulled onto an Interstate highway, he said. But the chip showed that the driver had not let the engine warm up enough. Instead, Mr. Barrett said, ''the driver pushed the pedal to the floor and expected the car to perform.''
 Like the CarChip, the ScanGauge II starts logging data immediately. It has a cable that runs from the plug-in to the console, about the size of a stick of butter, which displays the data. The display panel can be attached to the dashboard with Velcro -- two pieces were enclosed with the model I tried. One screen shows trip data, including fuel economy and the distance the car can cover before the fuel tank is empty. 
 REES ROBERTS, who lives in Racine, Wis., uses the ScanGauge II with his Prius 2006. The Prius already has a gauge that shows miles per gallon, Mr. Roberts said, ''but its maximum readout ends at the 99-mile point.'' The ScanGauge II, in contrast, has a gauge that goes up to four digits. ''I can tell at any instant when I'm getting 150, 200, or even 250 miles per gallon,'' he said, referring to instances when gliding downhill on the Interstate, for example. 
 Mr. Roberts is interested not only in his fuel economy, measured in miles per gallon, but also in the fuel rate, measured in gallons per hour. ''That rate depends on your lead foot,'' he said. ''If you are soft on the accelerator, you might get .4 or .5 gallons per hour. Accelerate, and you'll see it go higher, to 1.5 or 1.7 gallons per hour.''
 The potential savings are not minor, experts say. ''Driving habits, including speed and rate of acceleration, have a great impact on fuel efficiency,'' said Eric Kaufman, technical integration engineer for fuel economy at General Motors in Milford, Mich. ''Driving slower and accelerating slower will improve fuel economy.''
 Mr. Roberts said that his monitoring of his driving habits had led him to make changes. ''I drive differently now,'' he said. ''You watch the gauge, and you learn the behaviors that work, so that you get better and better at conserving gas -- and reducing emissions.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ScanGauge II, left, has a monitor that displays data, like fuel use. The CarChip stores information that can be downloaded on a computer, and has an alarm that can alert drivers if they surpass a certain speed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (66%) Automobiles; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: TEKTRONIX INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (56%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: Anne Eisenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); EARTH (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



69 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA FRENZY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the X's and O's, a Lesson in How to Be Big

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
IT has become an American rite. Every year at this time, much ink is spilled to marvel at what a phenomenon the Super Bowl has become -- not merely as a sporting contest or a forum for advertisers to make a splash, but also as a fully realized spectacle.
 The Event, of course, is the most elusive and desirable of all media constructs, whether it's ''event television,'' ''the movie event of the season'' or the release of the final ''Harry Potter'' book. To state the obvious, the Event by its very definition is something that cannot happen every minute of every day.
Yet a lesson lurks in today's big show -- with its 90 million viewers watching $2.6-million, 30-second commercials and consuming untold vats of seven-layer dip. To my eye, part of the Super Bowl's pre-eminence stems from one of the savvy and counterintuitive ways in which the National Football League has reinforced its brand value: by emphasizing its scarcity. 
 It's hard to say for certain, but there is data to suggest that the N.F.L. generates more profit than the combined profit of America's other three major sports leagues -- the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League and Major League Baseball. The N.F.L. churns out that operating profit, estimated at about $1 billion, with only 16 regular season games a year, versus 82 for basketball, 84 for hockey and 162 for baseball.
 (I came to this much-bruited but hard-to-confirm conclusion by checking in with several sports economists, including David J. Berri of California State University, Bakersfield, and Rodney Fort of Washington State University, who crunch industry figures compiled by Forbes magazine.)
 There are many possible reasons for this. With so few games in football, every play counts more. How many times, for example, have you watched a basketball game and felt as if the stars were mailing in their performances, maybe because they have three more games this week or are holding powder for the playoffs (which too many teams will get into anyway)? And, as my brother, the sports fan in the family, has pointed out to me, football has a ''metronomic regularity'' that has made Sunday afternoons something of a sacred ritual in many family rooms and sports bars. An Event.
 There's more, of course. Mark Yost, the author of ''Tailgating, Sacks and Salary Caps: How the N.F.L. Became the Most Successful Sports League in History'' (Kaplan Business, 2006), said the league's desire to protect its brand led it to rein in its licensing program, which in the late 1990s allowed more than 300 suppliers to slap team and league logos over all kinds of bric-a-brac.
 The league brought in a new consumer products minder, who cut the number of suppliers by two-thirds and began controlling how the league was portrayed -- down to patrolling the sidelines at games to make sure that even the coaches were wearing products made by the league's clothing licensee, Reebok. Licensing revenue subsequently doubled, to around $3 billion a year, Mr. Yost estimates.
 Even the trademark fedora and suit worn by Tom Landry, the legendary Dallas Cowboys coach, would be a no-no in the league now, Mr. Yost told me.
 The N.F.L. doesn't look at itself as a sports brand, he said: ''It looks at itself as a consumer product that is all about competing with other forms of consumer entertainment.''
 While guarding against overexposure, the N.F.L. is not ignorant of innovation. It, too, aspires to spread its fare across multiple platforms -- including video-on-demand highlights on devices like iPods and BlackBerrys -- and has been studying the logistics of international expansion. Every few years it introduces expansion teams, and it has started an N.F.L. Network cable channel with 24-hour programming for diehard fans. But there is a difference between enhancing the brand and watering down the stew.
 Keeping its core product tight and finite is something that the N.F.L. has in common with some other notable media ventures. The astonishing popularity of ''American Idol'' in its sixth season is partly a testament to the fact that the Fox network has not fiddled with its winning formula and spun off all sorts of additional contests under the ''Idol'' banner. In other words, it hasn't diluted ''Idol'' the way ABC memorably short-circuited the run of ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' a few seasons back.
 In a similar vein, many news organizations have expressed admiration for the success of The Economist, the British newsweekly. Although The Economist has a creditable Web presence, it is the weekly magazine that manages to seem relevant and fresh despite its supposedly pressured ''newsweekly'' format. (Ditto, in a way, for The New Yorker and the Sunday edition of just about every big newspaper.)
 One big question of the digital age, of course, is whether media companies can make up on volume what they lose on price when they move their output online. But another question -- which today's contest reminds us of -- is whether the digital rush will backfire and water down the value of content and brands in the same way it has challenged the value and efficiency of other forms of advertising.
 Time Inc., the nation's largest magazine publisher, has been in the news because it has cut staff and sold titles while emphasizing the building of digital outlets like Time.com and People.com. (It's not a wholly different story at most newspapers, of course; newsrooms are being reconfigured to publish news continuously in a digital format even while the print product is created but once a day.)
 Ann S. Moore, Time Inc.'s chairwoman and chief executive, enthuses about all the material that Sports Illustrated now publishes on its Web site, SI.com, including daily stories, blogs and archival material. After all, the cost of ''publishing'' a digital page is vastly less than with a printed one, so why not? An answer to that question is really an existential one: It depends how far you stretch the brand and what is lost along the way. Just because you can do something doesn't always mean that you must.
 Ms. Moore told me that in her business, at least, she has seen no notable declines in readership or circulation for print editions as she has pushed further online. What she has seen is the loss of print advertising to the Internet, not print readers -- who continue to want material in both formats. 
 IN the magazine business, this discussion is partly about ''frequency'' -- basically, how often you publish. Daily, weekly and monthly are all common frequencies. And they can change -- it's been a long time, for example, since Gentleman's Quarterly was a quarterly. 
 The prevailing view is that just about any media property can become a 24-7 digital brand regardless of how often it has been produced in the past. But the Super Bowl is a reminder that amid the digital blur, the Event remains singularly powerful.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Scott Pollack) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASKETBALL (87%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); BASEBALL (77%); BRANDING (77%); WRITERS (70%); SPORTS FANS (67%); BRAND EQUITY (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Football; Super Bowl

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (59%); CHICAGO BEARS (59%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%) National Football League; Chicago Bears; Indianapolis Colts

PERSON: Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



70 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE GOODS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Bug? Robot? Cyborg?

BYLINE: By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
ARTISTS aren't typically cut out for wage slavery, and Mike Libby, a sculptor in South Portland, Me., is no exception. He has nothing but sour memories of his last workaday job, as a supervisor at a local print shop. ''I was managing lackeys, and I was just a lackey myself,'' he grumbled.
 So Mr. Libby was oddly pleased when he was laid off in January 2005. With months' worth of unemployment assistance to tide him over, Mr. Libby realized that he would never have a better chance to start his own business. So he went to work building a stockpile of what he deemed his most marketable artistic creation: a series of dead beetles, wasps and other insects adorned with antique wristwatch parts. 
Mr. Libby first tried melding together insects and human technology in 1999, while at a residency at the Interlochen Center for the Arts in Interlochen, Mich. He picked up a dead beetle from beneath a vending machine the previous summer, and he had long been pondering its peculiar beauty. One day, for reasons he cannot entirely explain, Mr. Libby was inspired to disassemble an old Mickey Mouse watch and place the gears beneath the beetle's sheathed wings.
 ''I've always been interested in making a correspondence between things that aren't alike -- making something look one way, even though that's not the way it's supposed to be put together,'' Mr. Libby said, trying to shed light on his brainstorm. ''Picasso's art is a lot like that, to tell the truth.''
 Mr. Libby spent a few years polishing his technique, at first working with only beetles, but later expanding to other insect groups. He begins by removing the insect's innards, then darkening the interior with stain, in order to sharpen the contrast with the brass or silver-colored watch parts. He then glues the gears, screws and other hardware in place. 
 The sculptures may look fragile, but Mr. Libby says they are surprisingly resilient: ''I dropped one once from four feet and a leg broke off, but none of the mechanical parts.''
 Rather than scour the Maine woods for dead insects, Mr. Libby started buying specimens from professional dealers, who cater to the sorts of collectors who hang butterfly-filled display cases on their walls. And he haunted estate sales in search of vintage watches to take apart. 
 Though Mr. Libby dislikes the word ''cyborg,'' that is perhaps the most apt description of the finished products: insects that appear plucked from a future in which artificial intelligence has triumphed over the natural world.
 While still working at the print shop, Mr. Libby displayed the gear-laden insects at several of his art shows, but sold very few. Word started spreading in late 2005, however, after one of his friends built a Web site for the nascent business: InsectLabStudio.com. Mr. Libby, meanwhile, constructed around 50 of the creepy sculptures; each took 10 to 40 hours to complete.
 Mr. Libby has sold about 30 of them so far, with prices starting at $200 for a butterfly with spotted wings to $500 for a spindly-legged spider with a red light-emitting diode mounted on its back. He has also worked on several high-priced custom jobs, at the behest of clients who pine after a particular species.
 The bulk of his customers, he said, have been entomologists or fellow artists, along with a few forensic scientists who -- as fans of ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation'' will know -- often observe insect activity in order to estimate how long a murder victim has been dead.
 Mr. Libby's collection of semi-robotic insects can be viewed on his Web site. But shoppers interested in buying one must send him an e-mail message, rather than clicking on a ''buy'' button. Aside from not being cut out for the 9-to-5 business world, it seems, artists like Mr. Libby aren't good at installing shopping-cart software, either.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Mike Libby) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (62%) Watches and Clocks ; Insects; Inventions and Patents

ORGANIZATION: INTERLOCHEN CENTER FOR THE ARTS (56%)

PERSON: Brendan Koerner; Mike Libby

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (73%) MAINE, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



71 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Wireless Internet for All, Without the Towers

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is an author based in Silicon Valley and a professor of business at San Jose State University. E-mail: stross@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THESE still are early days for the Internet, globally speaking. One billion people online; five billion to go.
 The next billion to be connected are living in homes that are physically close to an Internet gateway. They await a solution to the famous ''last mile'' problem: extending affordable broadband service to each person's doorstep.
Here in the United States, 27 percent of the population lacks access to the Internet, according to a study completed last year by the Pew Internet and American Life Project. Among those who do have access, about 30 percent still rely on slow dial-up connections. The last mile for households with no or slow connections may be provided by radio signals sent out by transmitters perched atop street lights, as hundreds of cities have rolled out municipal Wi-Fi networks, or are in the process of doing so.
 The impulse behind these projects is noble. It's a shame, however, that lots of street lamps and lots of dollars -- a typical deployment in an urban setting will run $75,000 to $125,000 a square mile, just to install the equipment -- do not really solve the last-mile problem. 
 If you're sitting with your laptop at an outside cafe, you'll be happy with the service. But if you happen to be at home, you realize that service to the doorstep is not enough: you still need to buy equipment to bolster the signal and solve the ''last mile plus 10 more yards'' problem -- that is, getting coverage indoors.
 Wi-Fi signals do not bend, and you usually can't get much of a useful bounce from them, either. Because Wi-Fi uses unlicensed bands of the radio spectrum, by law it must rely on low-power transmitters, which reduce its ability to penetrate walls. Travel-round-the-world shortwave, this ain't.
 Trying to cover a broad area with Wi-Fi radio transmitters set atop street lights brings to mind a fad of the 1880s: attempts to light an entire town with a handful of arc lights on high towers. But overeager city boosters around the country soon discovered that shadows obscured large portions of their cities, and the lighting was not as useful as had been expected. Municipal Wi-Fi on streetlamps, another experiment with top-down delivery, may run a similarly short-lived -- and needlessly expensive -- course. 
 WiMax, which will be a high-power version of the tower approach, comes in two flavors: mobile, which has not yet been certified, and fixed, which is theoretically well suited for residential deployment. Unfortunately, it's pricey. Peter Bell, a research analyst at TeleGeography Research in Washington, said fixed WiMax would not be able to compete against cable and DSL service: ''It makes more economic sense in semirural areas that have no broadband coverage.''
 An intriguingly inexpensive alternative has appeared: a Wi-Fi network that is not top-down but rather ground-level, peer-to-peer. It relies not on $3,500 radio transmitters perched on street lamps by professional installers but instead on $50 boxes that serve, depending upon population density, more than one household and can be installed by anyone with the ease of plugging in a toaster. 
 Meraki Networks, a 15-employee start-up in Mountain View, Calif., has been field-testing Wi-Fi boxes that offer the prospect of providing an extremely inexpensive solution to the ''last 10 yards'' problem. It does so with a radical inversion: rather than starting from outside the house and trying to send signals in, Meraki starts from the inside and sends signals out, to the neighbors.
 Some of those neighbors will also have Meraki boxes that serve as repeaters, relaying the signal still farther to more neighbors. The company equips its boxes with software that maintains a ''mesh network,'' which dynamically reroutes signals as boxes are added or unplugged, and as environmental conditions that affect network performance fluctuate moment to moment.
 At this time last year, two of Meraki's co-founders -- Sanjit Biswas and John Bicket -- were still Ph.D. students at M.I.T., pursuing academic research on wireless mesh networks in the course of building Roofnet, an experimental network that covered about one-third of Cambridge, Mass., and offered residents free service. 
 Last year, Google invited Mr. Biswas to give a presentation about his experience providing wireless Internet service to low-income communities. At the time, Google was testing its first municipal Wi-Fi network in its hometown, Mountain View, Calif., using transmitters attached to street lamps. 
 After Mr. Biswas's talk, a Google engineer told him that people using Google's network said they could get online at home only by holding their laptops against a window. Mr. Biswas said he was not surprised. Using municipal Wi-Fi for residential coverage, he said, was ''the equivalent of expecting street lamps to light everyone's homes.''
 Mr. Biswas and Mr. Bicket realized that their mesh-network gear designed for residential use could avoid that problem, and hasten the extension of Internet access worldwide. They founded Meraki, took a leave of absence from M.I.T. and, along with a third co-founder, Hans Robertson, moved to Silicon Valley. In short order, Google and then Sequoia Capital, one of Google's original venture capital backers, invested in Meraki.
 Moore's Law, with its regular doubling of transistors on a single silicon chip, makes possible the miracle of a Meraki ''mini,'' as the company calls its basic product for the home. It contains a Wi-Fi router-on-a-chip, combined with the same microprocessor and same memory that formed the heart of a Silicon Graphics workstation 10 years ago. These components are now cheap enough today to be included in a box that sells for $49. 
 The fact that 200 million Wi-Fi chips will be manufactured this year leads to economies of scale that will drive down the price of extremely intelligent network equipment. Meraki's products are still being tested, but word-of-mouth has attracted 15,000 users in 25 countries.
 One early adopter was Michael Burmeister-Brown, a director of NetEquality, a nonprofit in Portland, Ore., that provides free Internet access to low-income neighborhoods. He had not been impressed by Portland's municipal Wi-Fi service. Because the Wi-Fi transmitter has to be both close and within unobstructed view, the limitations brought to Mr. Burmeister-Brown's mind the sign on the back of 18-wheel trucks: ''If you can't see my mirror, I can't see you.'' 
 In Portland, the access points were installed only at every other intersection in residential areas -- creating an ''I can't see you'' problem. MetroFi, the service provider, advises residents who are not close to a transmitter to buy additional equipment to pull in the signal, with a starting price of $119 -- and that is without the ''professional installation'' option.
 For NetEquality, Mr. Burmeister-Brown decided to try out the Meraki equipment in several neighborhoods. In the largest, consisting of about 400 apartments, five DSL lines were used to feed 100 Meraki boxes, which cover the complex with a ratio of one box to every four apartments. Each box both receives the signal and passes it along, albeit at diminished strength. For an initial investment of about $5,000, or $13 a household, the complex can offer Internet access whose operating costs work out to about $1 a household a month. 
 The bandwidth can match DSL service, but here it is throttled down a bit to deter bandwidth-hogging downloads. Nonetheless, Mr. Burmeister-Brown says everyone is able to enjoy Web browsing with what he describes as ''really snappy response.'' The sharing of signals among neighbors does not compromise privacy if standard Wi-Fi security protocols are switched on.
 Meraki's products are not yet for sale, and its networks have not been tested with extensive deployment across a large city. Nonetheless, the intrinsic advantages of its grass-roots approach, with next-to-nothing expenditures for both equipment and operations, are impossible to ignore.
 MR. BISWAS says there are about 800 million personal computers in the world, but only 280 million are connected. The rest are ''stuck in the 1980s'' -- close to being connected, but not quite. 
 Meraki does not wish to go into the Internet service provider business itself, but it aspires to equip any interested nontechnical person to become a ''micro'' service provider for his or her local community. If the provider wishes to use advertising to cover costs rather than charge an access fee, little would be needed in order to cover the minimal outlays for equipment and operations.
 This low-cost network model offers the prospect of broadband service reaching inside many more households. One billion and one. One billion and two. One billion and three .

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by James Yang) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (89%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); BROADBAND (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%) Computers and the Internet

PERSON: Randall Stross

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



72 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: The Job Transfer: Look Before You Leap

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO

 BODY:
Q. Your boss has requested that you transfer to an office in another state. You don't want to uproot your life, but you're afraid that declining the opportunity may ruin your career. What should you do?A. Hear out your boss, and take some time to ponder the request before reacting. Margaret Morford, president and owner of the HR Edge, a management consulting firm in Nashville, says a little perspective on important decisions can go a long way. 
 ''Nobody is forcing you to respond immediately,'' she said. ''Taking the extra day gives you a chance to get your thoughts together, which guarantees you'll make the choice that's best for you.''Q. Why do companies transfer employees across the country?A. Staffing issues, like the economics that drive them, often boil down to supply and demand. Most large multinational companies relocate employees between offices to deal with pressing needs. The practice is most common in industries like law, pharmaceuticals and manufacturing.Q. What should you consider in evaluating a possible transfer? A. Employees should always weigh the broader professional value of a transfer. David Nour, managing partner of the Nour Group, a consulting firm in Atlanta, noted that transfers often raise an employee's importance to an organization. Willingness to accept a transfer, Mr. Nour added, usually shows initiative and determination, characteristics that can aid in career advancement.
 ''Education is a lifelong process, and you never know where that next great lesson will come from,'' he said. ''In many cases, a transfer can help create new experiences that you wouldn't have otherwise.''
 Consider practical issues, too. If you have young children or a spouse who is not willing to move, a transfer is obviously not feasible. And if you are watching expenses and will not receive help with relocation costs, a transfer can be a recipe for financial ruin.Q. Is it wise to share concerns about the transfer with your boss?A. That depends on the concerns. If your worries are strictly professional, raise them in the form of candid questions and give the boss a chance to respond to each. For concerns of a more personal nature, you may not want to be too specific unless you have opened up to your boss before; even then, it's perfectly acceptable to remain vague.
 Whatever you decide to share, take a positive approach, maintain a respectful tone and don't sound accusatory or defensive.
 Lee Miller, president of NegotiationPlus.com, a consulting firm in Morristown, N.J., said these subtle signals could be the difference between a frustrating conversation and one that ends happily. ''This is one of those few times where it's just as much about what you say as it is about how you say it,'' he said. ''Make clear that no matter what, you're committed to the company and you want to continue to contribute however they'll let you do so.''Q. Should you suggest alternatives to the transfer?A. It can't hurt. Michelle Tillis Lederman, founder of Executive Essentials, a corporate training company in New York, said that any effort to collaborate on a solution shows that you are willing to do whatever you must to contribute to the company's overall success. 
 Perhaps the most common substitute for relocation is a telecommuting arrangement. Another option is a modified transfer assignment -- say, spending three or four days working from a satellite office and the rest of the week from home.
 A third choice is to see if the opportunity for a transfer can be tabled until your situation changes.
 A year ago, Juan Carlos Blacker, campus director at InsideTrack, an educational coaching company in San Francisco, was asked by managers at the company to transfer to a new office in Portland, Ore. He declined the offer for personal reasons, but asked his boss to consider him for future transfers. Mr. Blacker then made the move in November, after his wife's employer decided to open an office in Portland as well.
 ''Eventually,'' he said, ''the company got what it wanted and I advanced my career.'' Q. What might happen if you flat-out reject the request?A. Your reputation could disintegrate quickly, with many managers branding you as selfish and uninterested in being a team player. 
 Kerry Patterson, chief development officer at VitalSmarts, a training and development company in Provo, Utah, said that this change in perception could lead to a reduction in plum assignments and to an overall feeling of alienation.
 ''It can get ugly pretty fast,'' he said. ''Once you've rejected the offer, you definitely open yourself up to the kind of treatment that will have you thinking about looking for another job.''
 In some instances, employees are even fired for rejecting transfers. John Levy, a partner at Henson & Effron, a law firm in Minneapolis, said that in states where employees are hired ''at will,'' it's perfectly legal for a company to fire an employee for any number of reasons, so long as the dismissal is not because of discrimination over race, religion, gender or other factors. 
 With so much at risk, employees who are confident in their decision to reject the transfer simply may want to consider seeking a job elsewhere, said Nancy Widmann, president of NCW, an executive coaching firm in New York. 
 ''If you are comfortable with your reasons, then you made the correct decision for you and your family,'' said Ms. Widmann, the former president of CBS Radio. ''If not -- if the fit is not right -- it might just be the time to prepare your exit strategy and move on from there.''Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); CHILDREN (64%) Labor; Relocation of Personnel

PERSON: Matt Villano

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



73 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: When Congress Aims at Executive Pay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Is the Fix Worse Than the Problem?'' (Fair Game, Jan. 28), in which Gretchen Morgenson said a proposal in Congress to rein in the pay of executives could end up hurting workers who are paid much less: 
 Yes, things will inevitably get worse when someone, in this case Congress, says, ''I'm from the government and I'm here to help.'' As the column says, the answer is not to use the tax code to ''legislate corporate governance'' but instead to allow shareholders real power in the selection and retention of directors.
Shareholders should be allowed, through the courts if necessary, to truly hold directors accountable for the failure of corporate boards to keep chief executives' pay at reasonable levels. The owners of public companies, not Congress, must save these boards from their own follies. Michael G. BrautigamCincinnati, Jan. 28The writer formerly represented shareholders in class-action securities litigation.To the Editor:
 Gretchen Morgenson is quite right that in trying to penalize corporate moguls, Congress will succeed only in worsening the lot of the midlevel management who actually make corporate America work. Now if she would apply that perspective more broadly -- and recognize that almost all legislative and regulatory "fixes" do more damage to our economy than the problems they purport to address: Congress aims at Enron, and winds up hitting all public companies. 
 Perhaps the next time that Congress rushes a Sarbanes-Oxley solution to judgment, Ms. Morgenson will take a longer look at it.Barry AugenbraunSt. Petersburg, Fla., Jan. 28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%) Executives and Management; Wages and Salaries; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Michael G Brautigam; Barry Augenbraun; Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



74 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 419 words

BYLINE: By ROGER COLLIS

 BODY:
Regarding your recent advice on how to find the best seats in the air (Q&A, Nov. 19), why not suggest my solution? For years I have bought three adjoining seats in coach and slept like a baby, completely flat. The price is always much less than business class, and you get more real estate. I would add three warnings, however: Never buy the first row in the coach section (the armrests cannot be raised); never buy just two seats; and bring an extra pillow. -- Janys Harvey, Paris 
 In fact, back in the old days, before business class emerged in the late 1970s and there were only two cabins (first class and economy), travelers used to do just that, except that they tried to get the seats free. The idea was to find an ''empty'' flight and get four seats behind the bulkhead so you could stretch out. It was far more comfortable than first class, which had seats that could recline only about 15 degrees.
You may be right when it comes to pricing. British Airways quoted me $476 for a round-trip economy ticket from New York to London for travel in March, compared with $3,868 in business class. I could therefore have bought four economy seats for $1,904, half the business fare. Of course, getting a row of seats would require planning. British Airways, Continental, Delta and Virgin Atlantic are among the major airlines that accept multiple bookings from people who wish to buy more than one seat. 
 A few more caveats: Booking adjoining seats does not always ensure that you will get them. Airlines, drawing upon reserves of small print, may say, ''We can never guarantee seat assignments'' and that ''personnel and computers often reassign seats.'' Check aircraft seating plans before you book, and make sure your seats are preassigned and together. I heard of one traveler who found that the two seats he had booked for himself were on either side of the aisle.
 Also, be sure that armrests are not fixed in the down position on the type of plane you will be flying. It's best to book directly with the airline and get an advance seat assignment. Bear in mind that certain seats (like those in emergency exit rows) are allocated only at check-in. And always make sure that the airline understands and authorizes what you are doing. You don't want to be faced at check-in with ''Sorry, we have had to split up your party.'' Of course, the multiple-seat strategy makes sense only if you are flying nonstop. And, finally, you may find it hard to defend your territory in the case of overbooking. ROGER COLLIS

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nana Rausch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIR FARES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



75 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Q & A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Interest Payments On Security Deposits

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
Q. I recently received a check for what was described as interest on my security deposit. The interest was $32.26, but $22.16 was deducted as a 1 percent ''management fee.'' I don't understand any of this -- this seems like more than 1 percent to me.A. Thomas P. Higgins, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer, said that under state law a landlord must deposit a tenant's security deposit in an interest-bearing account if the building has six or more apartments.
 ''This interest belongs to the tenant,'' Mr. Higgins said. He added, however, that the landlord is allowed to deduct, as an administrative expense, 1 percent of the total security deposit from any interest earned. 
 ''In this case, the landlord is apparently holding $2,216 as a security deposit,'' he said. ''And, based upon the numbers provided, the deposit must have earned 1.456 percent over the year.'' 
 That return, he said, would not be unusual for a security deposit account at today's low interest rates. Can a Condo Board Ask About a Buyer's Finances?Q. Does a condo board have the right to request sensitive financial information from a buyer?A. Typically, yes. Marc Luxemburg, a Manhattan lawyer who is the president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said that most condo bylaws give the board the right of first refusal -- that is, an option to buy the apartment -- and some may require the board's consent to a sale. 
 The bylaws also typically require that the board be supplied with the information it needs to exercise its rights. ''And the financial status of a purchaser is certainly a relevant consideration about which the board is entitled to require full disclosure,'' he said.So Who Must Repair The Shower Diverter?Q. The shower diverter valve in the bathroom of my Brooklyn co-op needs replacing, and I was told by the board and the managing agent that I am responsible for having this done even though the valve is inside the wall. Is there anything in city or state law about who pays for this kind of work?A. Andrew Berkman, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer, said the state's multiple dwelling law makes owners of residential buildings with three or more apartments responsible for keeping building systems, including the plumbing, in good repair.
 And while the law applies to co-ops, Mr. Berkman said, the courts have allowed co-ops to shift to tenant-shareholders the responsibility for making certain repairs in their apartments. Typically, Mr. Berkman said, a co-op's proprietary lease makes the co-op corporation responsible for the pipes in the wall that deliver water to individual apartments but makes shareholders responsible for the lateral connections to those pipes.
 So, he said, it is possible that under the proprietary lease in this co-op, a tenant-shareholder might well be responsible for the shower diverter, which controls the flow of hot and cold water to the shower head. Accordingly, the letter writer should examine the proprietary lease to determine who is responsible for what.
 It is also possible, Mr. Berkman said, that a prior owner of the apartment changed the plumbing in the walls, and that this might be construed by the board as creating a situation in which the current owner is now responsible for replacing or repairing the plumbing. The board or managing agent should be able to say if that's the case here. JAY ROMANO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



76 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Criticism

BYLINE: By Sam Tanenhaus. 
Sam Tanenhaus is the editor of the Book Review.

 BODY:
It may be heretical, or just foolish, for a book review editor to admit it, but there are times when criticism is beside the point. This was brought home to me recently when I read the Library of America's new edition of Saul Bellow's major fiction from the 1950s and '60s, a volume of nearly 800 pages that includes ''Seize the Day,'' ''Henderson the Rain King'' and ''Herzog.''
 I've admired Bellow for many years, and plunging again into these middle-period classics seemed a good opportunity to put my stored-up thoughts in order. But I immediately ran into trouble. To begin with, the three works, though they all feature familiar Bellow heroes -- disheveled but preening, spiritually hungry, estranged from their wives -- are dauntingly dissimilar in form, subject and language.
In the novella ''Seize the Day,'' the action, which unfolds in less than 12 hours, is limited to the fraught interrelations of three inhabitants of an Upper West Side apartment building -- Tommy Wilhelm, an unemployed salesman on the skids; and the two elders, his disapproving father and a huckster neighbor, who compete for control over his life. 
 A chasm separates this spare little work from the exuberant, fantastical ''Henderson the Rain King,'' a travel narrative, situated in an imagined Africa (Bellow never visited the continent), that stretches the boundaries of the picaresque Bellow had already tested in ''The Adventures of Augie March''; Henderson's adventures lampoon the chest-thumping exploits of Hemingway even as they parody Bellow's firsthand investigations of the ''orgone experiments'' of the psychologist Wilhelm Reich.
 Finally, there is ''Herzog,'' a comic-philosophical meditation on cultural disorder centered on the mishaps of a cuckolded scholar whose famous first words -- ''If I am out of my mind, it's all right with me'' -- propel him on a five-day flight from his disintegrating life and on a letter-writing spree ''to the newspapers, to people in public life, to friends and relatives and at last to the dead, his own obscure dead, and finally the famous dead.'' 
 Impossible to impose a single line of argument on these books, so I approached them separately, taking notes and jotting little eurekas! in the margins. For instance, ''Seize the Day'' owed an unexpected debt -- actually two debts -- to James Joyce, to the short story ''The Dead'' and to ''Ulysses,'' each set on a single day, the first a fine-tuned study in failure, the second an epic of father-son reconciliation. 
 In ''Henderson,'' I detected ominous foreshadowings of the elderly Bellow's mischievous joke about multiculturalism -- ''Who is the Tolstoy of the Zulus? The Proust of the Papuans? I'd be glad to read him''-- that had cost him much grief in his last years.
 And it occurred to me that Moses Herzog's high-flown communications to Nietzsche and Adlai Stevenson resembled, tonally, the letter Bellow himself, in a fit of magnificent outrage, had sent to William Faulkner in 1956, after Faulkner had fatuously championed Ezra Pound despite Pound's loathsome anti-Semitic tirades.
 These insights, such as they were, seemed plausible, but inconsequential, for they ignored the one essential truth about Bellow's novels: they collectively yield a vision of the human universe as apprehended by a being of higher intelligence who is touched also with a rare depth of feeling.
 But what, then, of the many defects -- the longueurs and digressions, the lectures on anthroposophy and religion, the arcane reading lists? What of the characters who don't change or grow but simply bristle onto the page, even the colorful lowlifes pontificating like fevered students in the seminars Bellow taught at the University of Chicago? And what of the punitively caricatured ex-wives drawn from the teeming annals of the novelist's own marital discord?
 Shortcomings, to be sure. But so what? Nature doesn't owe us perfection. Novelists don't either. Who among us would even recognize perfection if we saw it? In any event, applying critical methods, of whatever sort, seemed futile in the case of an author who, as Randall Jarrell once wrote of Walt Whitman, ''is a world, a waste with, here and there, systems blazing at random out of the darkness'' -- those systems ''as beautifully and astonishingly organized as the rings and satellites of Saturn.'' 
 Thus, the overdetermination in ''Seize the Day'' (''the first of the cancer novels,'' Norman Mailer once called it) suddenly cracks open to provide a surreally detailed portrait of the demiurge Tamkin, who has tricked the gullible Wilhelm out of his last $700: ''His figure was stocky, rigid, short in the neck, so that the large ball of the occiput touched his collar. His bones were peculiarly formed, as though twisted twice where the ordinary bone was turned only once, and his shoulders rose in two pagoda-like points.'' And on it goes, down to Tamkin's eyeballs, underlip, even fingernails: ''moonless, concave, clawlike, and they appeared loose.'' 
 So, too, the outlandish ''Henderson the Rain King'' -- with its hulking narrator whose declamations (''I want, I want, I want, oh, I want'') stream forth in an idiom no actual human has ever spoken, and its cartoon natives enacting rituals cribbed from anthropological literature -- mounts toward a climax of uncanny power, as Henderson witnesses the melancholy village chieftain Dahfu in naked combat with a lion: ''I looked down from this straw perch -- I was on my knees -- into the big, angry, hair-framed face of the lion. It was all wrinkled, contracted; within those wrinkles was the darkness of murder.'' 
 Not that Bellow's triumphs emerge only from chaos. In ''Herzog'' he fashions an entire solar system, its space-time continuum shifting fluidly from the present to the past and back again, as the milieus (the Berkshires, Manhattan, Chicago) multiply, often within the confines of a few paragraphs -- the intricate structure held together by Bellow's free-form ponderings, his vast world-historical knowledge honed to the task of dissecting the ideology of sexual narcissism in the ''swinging '60s.''
 And the prose! Here is Herzog, the most fully realized intellectual in all of American fiction, aflame with lofty ideas and petty grievances, aboard a train hurtling along the Connecticut shore: ''The wheels of the cars stormed underneath. Woods and pastures ran up and receded, the rails of sidings sheathed in rust, the dripping racing wires, and on the right the blue of the Sound, deeper, stronger than before. Then the enameled shells of the commuters' cars, and the heaped bodies of junk cars, the shapes of old New England mills with narrow, austere windows; villages, convents; tugboats moving in the swelling fabric-like water; and then plantations of pine, the needles on the ground of a life-giving russet color. So, thought Herzog, acknowledging that his imagination of the universe was elementary, the novae bursting and the worlds coming into being, the invisible magnetic spokes by means of which bodies kept one another in orbit. Astronomers made it all sound as though the gases were shaken up inside a flask. Then after many billions of years, light-years, this childlike but far from innocent creature, a straw hat on his head, and a heart in his breast, part pure, part wicked, who would try to form his own shaky picture of this magnificent web.''
 It is tempting to conclude that ''Herzog'' represents an advance over the previous two novels. But the verdict imposes factitious standards of growth or development on Bellow and at the same time diminishes the act of reading him, the almost physical sensation one has that each book is a fresh attempt to grab hold of knowable reality, in its many pulsating forms, and to fathom its latent messages.
 Jarrell, again, on Whitman's oeuvre: ''We cannot help seeing that there is something absurd about any judgment we make of its whole -- for there is no 'point of view' at which we can stand to make the judgment, and the moral categories that mean most to us seem no more to apply to its whole than our spatial or temporal or causal categories seem to apply to its beginning or its end.'' Ah, the ideal moment to catalog the affinities between Bellow and Whitman -- the self-intoxication, the impatience with literary decorum, the ambition to sound the full register of American experience. But why bother? Bellow's books illuminate themselves. And all commentary is only so much background noise.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An essay on Feb. 4 about the career of Saul Bellow referred incorrectly to his travel experiences. Though he had not visited Africa when he wrote his 1959 novel ''Henderson the Rain King,'' which was set there, he did in fact eventually take a trip to the continent, in 1970.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saul Bellow in 1965. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (95%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Sam Tanenhaus; Saul (1915-2005) Bellow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



77 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Preventive Medicine

BYLINE: By DAVID OSHINSKY. 
David Oshinsky holds the Jack S. Blanton chair in history at the University of Texas at Austin. His most recent book, ''Polio: An American Story,'' won the Pulitzer Prize for history.

 BODY:
VACCINE
 The Controversial Story
 of Medicine's Greatest Lifesaver.
 By Arthur Allen.
 Illustrated. 523 pp. W. W. Norton. $27.95.
In 1796, an English country doctor named Edward Jenner successfully immunized a child against smallpox, the world's deadliest infectious disease. His experiment, ''An Inquiry Into the Causes and Effects of the Variolae Vaccinae'' (or ''smallpox of the cow'') added the word ''vaccination'' to our vocabulary. News of Jenner's stunning achievement led millions throughout Europe to roll up their sleeves. Napoleon, Britain's mortal enemy, had his troops vaccinated before taking the field. ''Ah, Jenner,'' he supposedly said after freeing two English prisoners at the doctor's request, ''I can withhold nothing from that man.''
 Yet, as Arthur Allen makes clear in ''Vaccine,'' a timely, fair-minded and crisply written account of ''medicine's greatest lifesaver,'' not everyone welcomed Jenner's feat. Criticism came quickly, often in apocalyptic terms. The economist Thomas Malthus wrote that vaccination might lead to dangerous population increases. Ministers warned against interfering with the Lord's grand design. Others, meanwhile, objected to a process that injected foreign, perhaps poisonous, matter into the body. What possible good could come from polluting the bloodstream of a child? 
 For vaccine supporters, the answer was simple. Vaccination saved lives by stimulating the immune system to create protective antibodies against disease. The process wasn't foolproof, they agreed, and the hazards were real. Vaccines could be contaminated with deadly bacteria; some were too weak to be effective, others so strong they could kill. Yet in a world where millions were dying needlessly from smallpox, this seemed a small price to pay. Vaccination, like other great discoveries, involved risk and reward. 
 Antivaccine sentiment found fertile soil in the United States, where the ethos of individual responsibility often clashed with public health programs based on collective norms. As Allen notes, Americans remained suspicious of calls for mandatory vaccination. Indeed, one of the potent symbols of the early antivaccine movement was the limp ''Raggedy Ann'' doll, created in 1915 by a man whose daughter had died shortly after being vaccinated at school without parental consent. Authorities blamed a heart defect; her parents blamed the shot. 
 What kept vaccine opponents on the defensive, however, were the rapid breakthroughs in medicine and public health. Jenner's triumph was followed by a procession of other vaccines, for rabies, tetanus, yellow fever, diphtheria and more. A healthier diet, advances in sanitation and surgery, the development of antibiotics and DDT -- all combined to increase the average American life expectancy to 70 years from 47 between 1900 and 1955. 
 Allen sees two events in these years as crucial to the growing public acceptance of vaccines. When America went to war in 1941 following Pearl Harbor, the health of the troops became a primary concern. Determined to prevent the medical casualties of World War I, where the number of American soldiers killed by influenza (44,000) almost matched the number lost in battle (50,000), military officials made vaccination mandatory. ''Yes, the shots hurt and even caused illness sometimes, but the soldier survived,'' Allen writes. ''Returning from the war he wanted his children to have the same protection.''
 World War II made vaccination fashionable. Polio turned it into a national crusade. No disease drew as much attention in postwar America, or created as much fear. Primarily striking children, polio killed some of its victims and paralyzed others, leaving behind vivid reminders for all to see: wheelchairs, leg braces, iron lungs, deformed limbs. The quest for a means of prevention led to the largest public health experiment in American history, involving nearly two million school-age volunteers. When Jonas Salk's killed-virus polio vaccine was declared ''safe, effective and potent'' in 1955, the nation celebrated as if a war had ended -- and, indeed, one had. At a White House ceremony, President Eisenhower choked back tears as he told the young researcher: ''I have no words to thank you. I am very, very happy.''
 The polio vaccines of Salk and Albert Sabin marked a special moment in medical history. As late as the 1950s, parents had been encouraged to expose their children to diseases like measles, mumps and chicken pox in order to get them over with before adulthood, when the dangers increased. Now, there were vaccines for all these illnesses, and more were on the way. Some researchers spoke openly of a future without infectious disease. ''Will such a world exist?'' a scientist asked. ''We believe so.''
 In our current age of AIDS, Ebola and avian flu, one marvels at the arrogance of these words. Nature remains a full step ahead. For Allen, growing fears of vaccination in the decades after Salk's triumph are partly a function of these heightened expectations. But more important, he thinks, was the general fallout from catastrophes like Watergate and Vietnam, which undermined institutional authority across the board. By 1980, the days of deferring to the expertise of doctors and researchers, pharmaceutical companies and federal bureaucrats, were long gone in the United States -- and unlikely to return. The public's portrait of a medical researcher had turned from the selfless and independent Salk working on behalf of children to that of a lab-coated lackey from a drug giant conspiring to hide the dangers of products that are slickly marketed and wildly overpriced.
 In terms of vaccination, the Watergate moment occurred in 1982, when a television station in Washington, D.C., broadcast an ominous documentary about the dangers of D.T.P., a standard childhood shot for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whooping cough). Titled ''Vaccine Roulette,'' it was, Allen notes, a 
 story ''waiting to be told.'' The pertussis component had proved extremely effective against a wretched, life-threatening disease. But side effects, including convulsions and brain damage, were reported in a tiny percentage of those who received it. By playing up the perils of D.T.P., while minimizing the seriousness of pertussis, the documentary ignited a grass-roots movement of alarmed parents -- some suspecting that their children had been damaged by D.T.P., others concerned by the ever growing number of vaccines being recommended by their pediatricians. For Allen, this was a signal opportunity -- a chance to educate the public about the process of vaccination. But little positive came of it, beyond a national compensation program in 1986 that allowed families claiming vaccine-injury to file for government payments.
 Allen is sympathetic to parental fears regarding the dangers of various vaccines, though he remains skeptical that scientific studies of these dangers, no matter how rigorous, will open many minds. At this point, he writes, much of the ''antivaccinist'' leadership is composed of countercultural types who view life through the prism of conspiracy theory: the government lies, the drug companies are evil, the medical profession is corrupt; trust the Internet instead. A fair number oppose traditional medicine in favor of homeopathy, believing that vaccines weaken the immune system and that sickness is a natural part of life. ''We treat our children like machines that are never supposed to slow down or let us miss a day of work,'' a mother told Allen. ''We never allow them the soulfulness of being ill.''
 To a large extent, says Allen, this antivaccination impulse is fueled by an ignorance of the past. Vaccines have done their job so well that most parents today are blissfully unaware of the diseases their children are being inoculated against. The end result is a culture that has become increasingly risk-averse regarding vaccination because people have greater trouble grasping the reward. 
 The problem appears to be growing. As more children go unvaccinated in the United States, there has been a rise in vaccine-preventable diseases. Meanwhile, fewer pharmaceutical companies are now producing vaccines, citing the high cost of testing, diminishing markets and a fear of litigation. For Allen, a reversal of these trends will require something long overdue: a frank national discussion about the risks and benefits of vaccination. His splendid book is a smart place to begin.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by John Hersey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); VACCINES (91%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); SMALLPOX (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (79%); TROPICAL DISEASES (79%); RABIES (79%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (79%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); BACTERIA (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (74%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: David Oshinsky; Arthur Allen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



78 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-04-07: RECONSIDERATION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: The Peace Paradox

BYLINE: By David A. Bell. 
David A. Bell is the author of ''The First Total War: Napoleon's Europe and the Birth of Warfare as We Know It.''

 BODY:
Historical analogies have always been popular in foreign-policy debates, and the present day is no exception. For liberals, the best description of our current situation is ''Vietnam II'' (as Maureen Dowd dubbed it in a Times column): another ghastly quagmire from which we can do little but walk away. Nonsense, reply conservatives. It's really ''World War IV'' (the words of Norman Podhoretz, who counts the cold war as III): another deadly struggle against totalitarianism for which we must mobilize every possible resource. As for the Harvard historian Niall Ferguson, writing in Vanity Fair, the best analogy is what could be called Rome II. We are another colossal empire, perched on the brink of decline and fall. 
Yet since history never repeats itself so neatly, the most useful historical analogies are not those that promise to predict the future but those that may reveal unexpected things about the present. Consider, for instance, a parallel rarely cited in current debates: the one between the post-cold-war period and the age of the French Revolution. Both began (by coincidence, in years numbered '89 and '90) with moments of extraordinary elation and hope. A powerful and much-loathed regime (the U.S.S.R., the French absolute monarchy) not only collapsed unexpectedly but did so with surprisingly little violence. So transformative did the change appear that many advanced thinkers predicted nothing less than an age of democracy in which warfare would have no place. In our own day, Francis Fukuyama famously spoke of ''the end of history,'' by which he meant an end to conflicts over the proper form of society. Two hundred years before, the fall of the French Old Regime led to surprisingly similar visions. In 1790, the new French Revolutionary state even renounced aggressive war, in what became known as its ''declaration of peace to the world.'' A French legislator promised giddily that from now on the human race would form ''a single society, whose object is the peace and happiness of each and all of its members.'' 
 Yet in both cases, disillusion followed with cruel speed. In our own time, of course, there were the wars in the Balkans and the gulf, followed by the global upheaval triggered by 9/11. In the 18th century, less than two years after the declaration of peace, there began a series of wars that would drag in all of Europe's major powers, take millions of lives and continue, with only small breaks, for more than 23 years, until France's final defeat in 1815. They would make possible the career of a man whose name is synonymous with military hubris: Napoleon Bonaparte. In short, the Enlightenment vision of perpetual peace gave way rapidly to a conflict in which states directed every possible political, social and economic resource toward the utter defeat of the enemy -- mankind's first total war. 
 Is this a coincidence? During the late 18th century, the Western world largely took war for granted. The major powers fought one another at regular intervals and devoted the lion's share of their budgets to the purpose. For this very reason, however, they took care to practice a degree of restraint and to treat their adversaries with honor. The French reformer Jean-Paul Rabaut Saint-Etienne was exaggerating when he said that ''armies [now] slaughter each other politely ... what was once a wild rage is now just a moment's madness.'' Still, particularly in Western Europe, war took less of a human toll in the century before the French Revolution than at almost any time in history.
 In fact, advanced thinkers who believed in the new, Enlightenment creed of secular human progress came to hope that war might fade away entirely. European philosophers like Baron d'Holbach called it nothing but a ''remnant of savage customs,'' and no less a figure than George Washington agreed, in 1788, that it was time for agriculture and commerce ''to supersede the waste of war and the rage of conquest.'' It was precisely such sentiments that inspired France's declaration of peace two years later. 
 Yet the idea that warfare might actually end had a paradoxical effect, for it destroyed any rationale for waging war with restraint. Within months of the declaration, one of its liberal proponents was warning that if revolutionary France did nonetheless come to blows with other European powers, it would be ''a war to the death which we will fight ... so as to destroy and annihilate all who attack us, or to be destroyed ourselves.'' In 1792, claiming to be acting out of reasons of preventive self-defense, France declared war on the Austrian Empire, and its leading general declared, ''This war will be the last war'' (the phrase uncannily foreshadows ''the war to end all wars'' of 1914). To achieve such an exalted end, any means were justified, and so there followed total war and the birth of new hatreds that made the idea of perpetual peace look more utopian than ever. France and its enemies both declared that the ''barbarism'' of the enemy made it impossible to respect the ordinary laws of war and proceeded to ravage civilian populations across the continent. 
 In our own day, the lurch from dreams of peace to nightmares of war has not (yet) translated into destruction on this terrible scale (except, alas, in Iraq). Of course, the enemy has failed to inflict significant damage on us, and even conservatives have not urged the sort of mobilization and sacrifice that we experienced during World War II. What has happened is a growing willingness to abandon traditional restraints on proved and suspected enemies, foreign and American alike. ''Among ourselves, we keep the law, but when we are operating in the jungle, we must also use the laws of the jungle,'' wrote the British diplomat Robert Cooper in an influential 2002 essay. With ideas like this in the air, abuses like those at Abu Ghraib and Haditha become far more difficult to prevent.
 Could it be, then, that dreams of an end to war may be as unexpectedly dangerous as they are noble, because they seem to justify almost anything done in their name? What the history of the late 18th century shows is that talk of fighting ''so as to destroy and annihilate all who attack us, or to be destroyed ourselves'' justifies a slide into ''the laws of the jungle'' that usually contributes more to polarization than to real security. It magnifies the importance of our enemies and swells their ranks. In short, it actually increases the danger of bloodshed on a massive scale. As the French Revolutionaries learned to their terrible cost, talk of the apocalypse can easily be self-fulfilling.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing from The Art Archive/Musee du Chateau de Versailles) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HISTORY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%) War and Revolution ; Motion Pictures; Costumes, Theatrical

ORGANIZATION: Five Hundred and First (501st) Legion

PERSON: David A Bell; Rob Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



79 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5238 words

HEADLINE: Tariq Ramadan Has an Identity Issue

BYLINE: By Ian Buruma. 
Ian Buruma is a frequent contributor to the magazine and the Henry R. Luce professor at Bard College. His most recent book is ''Murder in Amsterdam: The Death of Theo van Gogh and the Limits of Tolerance.''

 BODY:
Tariq Ramadan, Muslim, scholar, activist, Swiss citizen, resident of Britain, active on several continents, is a hard man to pin down. People call him ''slippery,'' ''double-faced,'' ''dangerous,'' but also ''brilliant,'' a ''bridge-builder,'' a ''Muslim Martin Luther.'' He wants Muslims to become active citizens of the West but four years ago was himself refused permission to enter the U.S. He could not take up the teaching position he'd been offered at the University of Notre Dame. Oxford University took him on as a visiting fellow instead. 
To his admirers, he is a courageous reformer who works hard to fill the chasm between Muslim orthodoxy and secular democracy. Young European Muslims flock to his talks, which are widely distributed on audiocassettes. A brilliant speaker, he inspires his audiences, rather like Black Power leaders did in the 1960s, by instilling a sense of pride. A friend of mine saw him last year in Rotterdam, talking to a hall packed with around 1,000 people, mostly Muslims. To them he had the aura of an Islamic superstar. Even my friend, an Iranian-born Dutchman with entirely secular views, was impressed by the eloquence of this Muslim thinker, who wishes to press his faith into the mainstream of European life. His critics see things differently: they accuse him of anti-Semitism, religious bigotry, promoting the oppression of women and waging a covert holy war on the liberal West. 
 I first met Ramadan last year in Paris. The French news magazine Le Point had organized a debate between the two of us on Muslims in Europe (or ''Eurabia,'' as some fearful people are now calling my native continent). I was instructed to ''really push him.'' But if the hope of Le Point was for sparks to fly, they were disappointed. Ramadan is much too smooth for sparks. Slim, handsome and dressed in a very elegant suit, he spoke softly in fluent English, with a slight French accent. His first languages were French and Arabic, but he heard English at home in Geneva, spoken mostly by visiting Pakistanis. 
 Perhaps I didn't push hard enough. We agreed on most issues, and even when we didn't (he was more friendly toward the pope than I was), our ''debate'' refused to catch fire. So when I set off for London a few months later to talk to him again, I felt that I had seen the polished Ramadan, the international performer who, in the words of Reuel Marc Gerecht, an expert on the Middle East at the American Enterprise Institute, sounds ''like a British diplomat at the U.N.,'' the kind who leaves you with ''a strong impression that prevarication is in the DNA.''
 So who is Tariq Ramadan? What does he stand for? Even physically, he proved a hard man to pin down. We had made an appointment, but fixing a time was a challenge. His Oxford college had no idea where he was. A home number could not be provided. E-mail messages went unanswered. Perhaps he was in Rotterdam, where he holds a chair in ''Identity and Citizenship'' at Erasmus University. Perhaps he was in France, or maybe somewhere else, appearing on a television talk show, signing books, speaking at a conference. Finally, a secretary from his office in Paris was able to make a connection. He was in Stockholm. We managed to meet the next day at the house of a friend in London. Ramadan, beard neatly clipped, was dressed, as always, in a smart suit and an open shirt. 
 ''I want to be an activist professor,'' he told me. This means that he spends more time writing, speaking and advising everyone from Tony Blair to the elders of mosques than on university teaching. Ramadan, who is 44, also lives the life of a devout Muslim, praying five times a day. The main thing, for him, is to find a way for Muslims to escape their minority status and play a central role as European citizens. ''The fact that Western Muslims are free,'' he said, ''means that they can have enormous impact. But it would be wrong to claim that we are imposing our ways on the West. New ideas are now coming from the West. To be traditional is not so much a question of protecting ourselves as to be traditionalist in principle.''
 Traditionalist principles, for Ramadan, apply to politics as much as to religion. Muslims, he says, should not try to create a ''parallel system'' to Western democracy, let alone aspire to building a Muslim state. ''There is no such thing,'' he says, ''as an Islamic order. We have to act to promote justice and inject our ethics into the existing system.'' According to Ramadan, the global order of neoliberal capitalism allows the wealthy West to dominate the world. Resisting this order is part of his task as an activist professor, who derives his ''universal principles'' from his Muslim faith. This message not only provides educated European Muslims with a political cause but is also pushed with considerable success at such international leftist jamborees as the World Social Forum, where the world's antiglobalists meet.
 I asked Ramadan what it was like to grow up as an Egyptian Muslim in Geneva. And not just any Egyptian Muslim: his maternal grandfather was Hassan al-Banna, founder in 1928 of the Muslim Brotherhood, which seeks to resist what it regards as Western domination and create an Islamic state. Al-Banna was murdered in 1949, by Egyptian government agents, following the assassination of the Egyptian prime minister by a Muslim Brother. ''Difficult,'' Ramadan replied, ''very difficult, and full of tensions. There were very few Muslims in Geneva in the 1960s, apart from a few United Nations people and some North Africans. Some of my brothers were attracted by Western life, and one of them even rejected everything to do with religion. But our parents were very liberal about it, never forcing me to pray, always open to dialogue and discussion.''
 ''Liberal'' was a surprising description of Ramadan's father, Said Ramadan, al-Banna's favorite disciple and a tireless promoter of political Islam. He had to escape from President Nasser's Egypt, after the Muslim Brotherhood was banned there in 1954 (a Muslim Brother was accused of trying to kill Nasser), and settled in Geneva. The youngest of six children, Tariq was named after Tariq Ibn Ziyad, the North African Muslim who conquered Spain in 711. Ramadan denies being a member of the Muslim Brotherhood -- one of whose credos is ''God is our goal, the Prophet our model, the Koran our law, holy war our way and martyrdom our desire'' -- but is proud of his illustrious background. To many Muslims al-Banna is still a very great man. When I met Ramadan later in the week at the gigantic East London Mosque, I heard him being introduced, with a tone of reverence, as al-Banna's grandson. ''With older people it lends authority to what I'm saying,'' Ramadan told me, as we walked through the mosque, where the main languages were Bengali and Urdu, apart from quotations from the Koran, which were in Arabic. 
 Even though Ramadan's father represented the Muslim Brotherhood in Europe, promoting the cause of Islamic government, Ramadan went to a mainstream Swiss school, where he got a solid grounding in French literature and European philosophy. He graduated a year early and studied philosophy, literature and social sciences at University of Geneva. By age 24, he was already dean of a high school and later lectured in religious studies at a college in Geneva and the University of Fribourg. I was fascinated to learn that of all European philosophers, Ramadan chose to study Friedrich Nietzsche, who had anticipated the death of religious faith. He even wrote his doctoral thesis on Nietzsche. Had he ever experienced any doubts himself? 
 ''Doubts about God, no,'' he replied. ''But questions, yes. Nietzsche raised strong and accurate questions about religion, on how religious identities are built, and how believers use victim status to become killers themselves. I also read everything by Dostoyevsky, whom I liked from the very beginning. That was my universal frame of reference. It was not easy, growing up in a committed Muslim family while dealing with people outside who were drinking, and all that. But I was protected on ethical grounds, as a religious person, first of all by playing sports, every day, for two hours or more -- football, tennis, running. And reading, reading, reading, five hours a day, sometimes eight hours. My father warned me that life was not in books. But it meant that even though I stayed away from drinking, I got respect from the people around me. I was known as 'the professor,' 'le docteur.' '' 
 The notion of the bookish grandson of Hassan al-Banna reading Nietzsche and Dostoyevsky is arresting but not entirely surprising. Like them, he was wrestling with the idea of a disenchanted world that appeared to be falling into nihilism. In his teens and early 20s, Ramadan says, he ''felt lonely in Europe, facing racial discrimination, and all that. So I idealized Egypt. My body was in Europe, but my heart was over there. I wanted to go back 'home.' '' 
 In 1986 Ramadan married a Swiss woman, the sister of one of his football buddies who had converted to Islam. She took the name Iman, and they moved with their young children to Cairo in 1991, where Ramadan studied Muslim philosophy with scholars from Al-Azhar University. Their stay in Egypt deepened his understanding of Islam but also turned him into a convinced European. ''I felt I had been misled,'' he told me. ''The philosophical connection between the Islamic world and the West is much closer than I thought. Doubt did not begin with Descartes. We have this construction today that the West and Islam are entirely separate worlds. This is wrong. Everything I am doing now, speaking of connections, intersections, universal values we have in common, this was already there in history.'' At the same time, he realized that ''home'' was actually in Europe, that while Islam was his faith, his culture was European. Ramadan's intellectual struggle to bridge different traditions was a personal one too. 
 In his book, ''Western Muslims and the Future of Islam,'' published in 2004, Ramadan lists various approaches to Islam, from ''political literalist Salafism'' -- militant, anti-Western, in favor of the Islamic state -- to ''liberal reformism,'' which sees faith as an entirely private affair. I asked him at the mosque where he placed himself. ''A Salafi reformist,'' he said, which might seem a contradiction but is explained in his book as follows: ''The aim is to protect the Muslim identity and religious practice, to recognize the Western constitutional structure, to become involved as a citizen at the social level and to live with true loyalty to the country to which one belongs.''
 Ramadan's favorite Muslim philosophers are the late-19th-century reformists Muhammad Abduh and Jamal al-Din al-Afghani, who tried to revive Islam under Western colonial rule by rational interpretation of the holy texts. They were skeptical of religious tradition, accumulated over time, and looked for core principles in the Koran that spoke to reason. For them there was no contradiction between scientific reasoning and their Muslim faith. And female emancipation or democratic government could be reconciled with the original principles of Islam. Both had lived in Europe. Both were harsh critics of colonialism and Western materialism. In Ramadan's words, ''They saw the need to resist the West, through Islam, while taking what was useful from it.'' 
 Speaking about his grandfather, Ramadan observed: ''People say that his ideas formed the basis of Al Qaeda. This is not true.'' The spiritual father of revolutionary Islam, according to Ramadan and others, was another Egyptian Muslim Brother, Sayyid Qutb, who advocated a holy war against the idolatrous West. Ramadan pointed out that ''Qutb actually joined the Muslim Brotherhood after my grandfather was killed. They didn't even know each other. My position on Hassan al-Banna is that he was much closer to Muhammad Abduh. He was in favor of a British-style parliamentary system, which was not against Islam.'' 
 This may or may not be an accurate representation of Hassan al-Banna, but it tells us a lot about the way Ramadan presents himself. Reconciling what seems hard to reconcile is what makes him an interesting and sometimes baffling figure. It is why the University of Notre Dame appointed him as Henry R. Luce professor of religion, conflict and peace building. Prof. R. Scott Appleby, the man who did everything he could to bring Ramadan to South Bend, Ind., was hardly naive about Ramadan's European reputation. Over breakfast in New York recently, he told me: ''He's doing something extraordinarily difficult if not impossible, but it needs to be done. He is accused of being Janus-faced. Well, of course he presents different faces to different audiences. He is trying to bridge a divide and bring together people of diverse backgrounds and worldviews. He considers the opening he finds in his audience. Ramadan is in that sense a politician. He cultivates various publics in the Muslim world on a variety of issues; he wants to provide leadership and inspiration. The reason we wanted him is precisely because he's got his ear to the ground of the Muslim world.'' 
 And this may also have been the reason that the U.S. State Department revoked his work visa in July 2004. Ramadan had already sent all his family possessions to South Bend. His children had been enrolled in local schools. According to the Department of Homeland Security, Ramadan was denied entry under a provision of the Patriot Act that bars foreigners from the U.S. who ''endorse or espouse terrorist activity.'' After the A.C.L.U and various academic groups contested the government's refusal to process Ramadan's application for another visa, a federal judge ruled that the State Department had to make a decision. The State Department refused to issue another visa on the grounds that Ramadan had donated roughly $900 to two European organizations that give aid to Palestinians. The organizations were, and still are, legitimate charities in Europe but since Ramadan made his donations have been blacklisted in the U.S. for supposedly giving money to Hamas. The A.C.L.U. lawyer, Jameel Jaffer, told me that Ramadan had fallen foul of the same principle that used to bar Communists from coming to the U.S.: his politics are not welcome. 
 But what exactly are his politics? Ramadan explained to me what shaped his political understanding: ''In my family, resistance was a key concept, resistance against dictatorship and colonialism. When I was 18, I started to travel to southern countries, in Latin America, India and Africa. The people I met were often leftists. The liberation theologists in Brazil were very important, resisting in the name of religious principles. I was at home with this discourse. I was also close to the Tibetans and spent one month with the Dalai Lama. It was the same philosophy, spiritual commitment and resistance, in their case against Chinese colonialism. Perhaps because of these personal experiences, I started to read the work of my own grandfather, who used the Scriptures, the story of Moses, against British colonialism. He was saying in the 1940s what the liberation theologists were saying in the 1960s.''
 Some of Ramadan's critics, most notably the French journalist Caroline Fourest, who wrote a sharp attack on him titled ''Frere Tariq'' (Brother Tariq), draw a direct line from Hassan al-Banna, through Said Ramadan and Tariq Ramadan himself, to the militant Islamism threatening the West today. Such was the disquiet in France about Islamist violence that Ramadan was barred from that country in 1995. The ban was eventually lifted. Ramadan prefers to see the family legacy in terms of ''Islamic socialism, which is neither socialist, nor capitalist, but a third way.'' In this reading, his father's friendship with Malcolm X is much more significant than any Saudi Arabian connection. This is why Ramadan was a popular speaker with African-American Muslims before his visa was revoked.
 ''Western Muslims and the Future of Islam'' throws some light on Ramadan's idea of ''Islamic socialism,'' an ideology, combining religious principles with anticapitalist, anti-imperialist politics, that goes back to the time of the Russian Revolution. (Libya's strongman, Muammar el-Qaddafi, is one who claims to rule according to these principles.) The murderous tyranny to be resisted, in Ramadan's book, is ''the northern model of development,'' which means that ''a billion and a half human beings live in comfort because almost four billion do not have the means to survive.'' For Ramadan, global capitalism, promoted by such institutions as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, is the ''abode of war'' (alam al-harb), for ''when faced with neoliberal economics, the message of Islam offers no way out but resistance.''
 To be a sworn enemy of capitalism does not mean you are a communist, a fascist, a religious fundamentalist or indeed an anti-Semite, but it is something these otherwise disparate groups frequently have in common. Advocating a revolt against Western materialism on the basis of superior spiritual values is an old project, which has had many fathers but has never been particularly friendly to liberal democracy. Ramadan's brand of Islamic socialism, promoted with such media-friendly vitality, in conferences, interviews, books, talks, sermons and lectures, has won him a variety of new friends, especially in Britain and France. 
 Gilles Kepel, a leading French scholar of Islam, describes in his book ''The War for Muslim Minds'' how Ramadan ''reached out to make alliances with the far left, working a territory abandoned by his rivals'' -- rivals, that is, like Andre Glucksmann, once a Maoist, now a supporter of the war in Iraq. Kepel goes on to explain that Ramadan ''exchanged his costume as the Muslim Youth's spokesman -- an outfit too tight to accommodate his ambitions and talent -- for the garb of the universalist intellectual.'' Just as Marxists claim a universal validity for their political ideology, Ramadan says he believes that religious principles, as revealed in the Koran, are universal. It was as a universalist that Ramadan promoted the right of Muslim women to wear the veil at French schools. ''Rights are rights,'' he said, ''and to demand them is a right.'' 
 This has been read as a rallying cry to convert the West to Islam, the first step toward the establishment of Eurabia. Ramadan denies that this is his intention. ''Whatever your faith,'' he explained to me, ''you are dealing with your fundamental principles. The message of Islam is justice. The neoliberal order leads to injustice. The point is to extract universal principles from one's faith, but in politics it has to be a personal decision. The danger of my discourse in France is that I'm telling people to be citizens. Muslims are still treated as aliens. I'm telling them to vote.'' 
 Ramadan, as Kepel observes, is ''balanced on a tightrope,'' for his socialism is not always congenial to devout Muslims. Marx (along with ''the Jew,'' ''the Crusader'' and ''the Secularist'') is a demonic figure for the Muslim Brothers. Ramadan is candid about his enemies: ''My fiercest critics come from majority Muslim countries. Traditional Salafists condemn me for being against Islam.'' Conversely, Ramadan's defense of certain practices rooted in Islamic tradition creates much suspicion among those who might otherwise agree with his politics. 
 Two media-driven controversies helped to make Ramadan both famous and notorious. The first was an exchange on French television in 2003 with Nicolas Sarkozy, the French interior minister (now running for president as the candidate of the conservative Union for a Popular Movement party), well known for his description of rioters in poor immigrant neighborhoods as ''scum.'' Sarkozy accused Ramadan of defending the stoning of adulterers, a punishment stipulated in the section of the Islamic penal code known as huddud. Ramadan replied that he favored ''a moratorium'' on such practices but refused to condemn the law outright. Many people, including Sarkozy, were outraged. When I talked with Ramadan in London, the mere mention of the word ''stoning'' set him off on a long explanation. 
 ''Personally,'' he said, ''I'm against capital punishment, not only in Muslim countries, but also in the U.S. But when you want to be heard in Muslim countries, when you are addressing religious issues, you can't just say it has to stop. I think it has to stop. But you have to discuss it within the religious context. There are texts involved. I am not just talking to Muslims in Europe, but addressing the implementation of huddud everywhere, in Indonesia, Pakistan and the Middle East. And I'm speaking from the inside to Muslims. Speaking as an outsider would be counterproductive. But now I can say that Sarkozy helped me enormously, because the controversy helped me to spread my ideas.''
 The other, perhaps even more contentious issue, also raised by Sarkozy, was Ramadan's supposed anti-Semitism. A month before the television debate, Ramadan posted an article on a Web site named Oumma.com, titled ''Critique of the (New) Communalist Intellectuals.'' This article had been turned down by both Le Monde and Liberation. Ramadan's main argument was that ''French Jewish intellectuals'' -- like Bernard-Henri Levy, Alain Finkielkraut, Bernard Kouchner, Andre Glucksmann and Pierre-Andre Taguieff (in fact not Jewish at all) -- who used to be ''considered universalist intellectuals'' had become knee-jerk defenders of Israel and thus ''had relativized the defense of universal principles of equality and justice.'' Ramadan was trying to turn the tables on those who accuse Muslims of obsessing about their victimhood by accusing ''Jewish intellectuals'' of doing precisely that, thinking of just their own tribal concerns, while Ramadan's pursuit of justice for Palestinians was supposedly part of a universalist project. These intellectuals were of course ''the rivals'' who, in Kepel's phrase, had ''abandoned'' the left, just as many early neoconservatives had done in the U.S. 
 Ramadan's attack was unfair. The intellectuals he mentioned had all championed many causes other than Israel, including putting a stop to the mass murder of Muslims in Bosnia. And by compiling this blacklist of Jews and placing a philosopher whose name merely sounded Jewish among them, he opened himself to the charge of anti-Semitism. The response was shrill. Andre Glucksmann wrote: ''What is surprising is not that Mr. Ramadan is anti-Semitic, but that he dares to proclaim it openly.'' Bernard-Henri Levy compared Ramadan's article with ''The Protocols of the Elders of Zion,'' the vicious Russian forgery about Jewish world domination. It all was vastly overblown, but these labels have a way of sticking to their target. When I asked the British Labor politician Denis MacShane, one of the few British politicians with a deep knowledge of France, about Ramadan, he repeated all the allegations about Ramadan's religious bigotry but said that the ''fundamental dividing line is about Israel and the Jews.''
 Ramadan himself says that it was because of his views on Israel and on U.S. policy in Iraq that he was deprived of his visa to teach in the U.S. He told me: ''I was asked to take part in a dialogue in Paris with representatives of American Jewish organizations, including Jack Rosen, head of the American Jewish Congress. It turned out to be less of a dialogue than an interview about my opinions on the Palestinian conflict. Rosen promised to talk to President Bush. But after this interview, I knew I would never get a visa.'' 
 This might sound like just the kind of conspiracy theory anti-Semites tend to indulge in. But unlike some Islamic activists, Ramadan has never expressed any hostility to Jews in general. There is no question that he is ferociously anti-Zionist. He sees this as part of his resistance to colonialism. A glance at his Web site shows precisely where he stands. ''The dignity of the Palestinians is to resist, ours is to denounce. ... That means denouncing fears as much as the unjust and wretched policies which continue to kill an entire people in an occupied territory.'' 
 Ramadan is in fact one of the few Muslim intellectuals to speak out against anti-Semitism. In an article in Le Monde, he wrote: ''We have heard the cries of 'down with the Jews!' shouted during protest demonstrations, and reports of synagogues being vandalized in various French cities. One also hears ambiguous statements about Jews, their secret power, their insidious role within the media, and their nefarious plans. ... Too rarely do we hear Muslim voices that set themselves apart from this kind of discourse and attitude.'' 
 Nonetheless, Ramadan's criticism of Jewish intellectuals missed the point. The main reason his European critics, Jews or non-Jews, have turned against Islam, and political Islam in particular, is not Israel so much as a common fear that secularism is under threat. That fear is coupled with a deep disillusion, in the wake of failed Marxist dictatorships, with the kind of anticolonial leftism that Ramadan now promotes in the name of universal principles rooted in the heart of Islam. As Denis MacShane put it to me, ''Ramadan repudiates core European principles that developed from Galileo to gay marriages.''
 What enrages former or current progressives is the apparent paradox that lies at the heart of Ramadan's political rhetoric. On global capitalism he speaks like a 1968 left-wing student revolutionary, but on social affairs he can sound like the illiberal conservatives whom those students opposed. In American terms, he is a Noam Chomsky on foreign policy and a Jerry Falwell on social affairs. One of Ramadan's fiercest critics in France, Caroline Fourest, fears that he has long-term plans to challenge European secularism through religious bigotry. She told me over the phone that she considered Ramadan ''more dangerous than the obvious extremists, precisely because he sounds more reasonable.'' The question of women is key to this.
 I wanted to know what exactly Ramadan meant by ''Islamic femininity,'' described in ''Western Muslims and the Future of Islam'' in terms of ''natural complementarity'' and ''autonomy of the feminine being.'' This sounded a trifle vague. He replied: ''When you are struggling for your rights, you can achieve a legal status. This is necessary. We must have the struggle for equal rights of women. But the body must not be forgotten. Men and women are not the same. In Islamic tradition, women are seen in terms of being mothers, wives or daughters. Now woman exists as woman.''
 I was not sure this answer left me much the wiser. Later I put some of Caroline Fourest's allegations to him -- that he had advised Muslim girls to avoid shaking hands with men; that he warned against mixed swimming pools; that women should not be allowed to engage in sports if their bodies were exposed to men. He claims that these quotes were taken out of context. ''What I mean,'' he said, ''is that men and women should have a choice. If they want to follow the rules of modesty, they should be able to choose to do so. Myself, I shake hands with women.'' I asked him whether his own daughters practiced their faith. He laughed and said that he certainly hoped so, but they were free to choose. Both were sent to ordinary public schools in Switzerland and Britain. 
 The question is how far secular society should be pushed to accommodate Islamic principles. ''We are in favor of integration,'' Ramadan says in a recorded speech, ''but it is up to us to decide what that means. ... I will abide by the laws, but only insofar as the laws don't force me to do anything against my religion.'' A Muslim must be able to practice and teach and ''act in the name of his faith.'' If any given society should take this right away, he continues, ''I will resist and fight that society.'' There is some ambiguity here. What does it mean to act in the name of one's faith? In 1993 he was against the performance of ''Fanaticism, or Mahomet the Prophet,'' a play by Voltaire, in Geneva, saying it ''would be another brick in the edifice of hatred and rejection.'' And yet he is careful not to call for violence or legal bans. As in the case of the Danish cartoons lampooning Islam, he prefers to use such words as ''respect'' or ''tact.'' 
 Olivier Roy, perhaps France's greatest authority on Islam, says that the matter of respect, what he calls ''the discourse of dignity,'' is Ramadan's greatest appeal to his followers. I asked Roy in a telephone interview recently who Ramadan's main followers were. ''Not the first generation of immigrants,'' he replied, ''and certainly not the fundamentalists. The poor in the French suburbs don't care about him, either. He appeals to people of the second generation, who have a college or university education but do not feel fully integrated. They are the would-be middle class, and for them the discourse of respectability, of dignity, is very important.''
 I thought of Roy's words as I walked through Brick Lane, in London's East End, on the way to the mosque where I was to meet Ramadan one day in December. Brick Lane used to be a poor Jewish area, where refugees from Russian pogroms eked out a living in the Sunday markets, cheap clothing stores and kosher dining halls. Now the Jews have moved up and on, and the area has become ''Bangla Town,'' home to Bangladeshis and Pakistanis. Brick Lane itself is lined with curry restaurants and stores selling ''Muslim fashion'' -- head scarves, burqas, men's baggy pants, even ''Halal cosmetics.'' I was struck by the word ''fashion.'' It denotes choice, a matter of modern identity more than a tradition left behind in the villages of Pakistan or Bangladesh. The same stores sold audiocassettes of the kind used to promote Ramadan's speeches: cassettes with such English titles as ''Islam for Children'' or ''How to Live as a Muslim.'' 
 This is the world in which Tariq Ramadan operates, an urban Western environment full of educated but frequently confused young Muslims eager to find attractive models they can identify with. I thought of the Somali-born Dutch activist Ayaan Hirsi Ali, as charismatic in her way as Ramadan. Having had her fill of controversies in the Netherlands (she wrote the film ''Submission,'' which led to the murder of the filmmaker Theo van Gogh by a Muslim extremist), she now works at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. Her mission, too, is to spread universal values. She, too, speaks of reform. But she has renounced her belief in Islam. She says that Islam is backward and perverse. As a result, she has had more success with secular non-Muslims than with the kind of people who shop in Brick Lane.
 Ramadan offers a different way, which insists that a reasoned but traditionalist approach to Islam offers values that are as universal as those of the European Enlightenment. From what I understand of Ramadan's enterprise, these values are neither secular, nor always liberal, but they are not part of a holy war against Western democracy either. His politics offer an alternative to violence, which, in the end, is reason enough to engage with him, critically, but without fear.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Emma Hardy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Islam; Economic Conditions and Trends; Women; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Islam; Anti-Semitism; Jews; Palestinians; Islam

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (83%) State Department; University of Notre Dame; Oxford University

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: Ian Buruma; Tariq Ramadan

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Israel; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



80 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-04-07: THE ETHICIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Too Hairy to Teach?

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
My husband, an excellent and experienced preschool teacher -- he is the best at what he does -- applied for a job at a local public school. The interview went great. The principal was impressed by his resume, recommendations and abilities, but feared that his beard would alienate community parents. Would he shave it? He politely declined. She said she would not hire him unless he did. Legal? Ethical? name withheld, Georgia
I've no doubt that despite being his wife, you provide an unbiased account of your husband's merits, but sadly his whiskers do not define a legally protected class in regard to job discrimination -- as do sex, age and race, for example. (A beard worn as a religious obligation could enjoy legal protection, but that's not the case here.) 
 While the principal behaved legally, she acted unethically and unprofessionally by basing a hiring decision on your husband's facial foliage (if that is actually what she did). She mistreated your husband by denying him a job for which he is qualified, she failed her school by depriving it of a capable teacher and she besmirched the honor of our nation's barbers who valiantly provide the neatly trimmed beards so vital to our way of life. Or something. Further, the principal let her students down by setting them an example of pusillanimous conformity, and she insulted their parents by assuming they are as superficial as she is. (But, in her defense, I get the feeling that she was neatly dressed.)
 Your husband might consider resubmitting his application accompanied by a picture of Abraham Lincoln. Or many such pictures on a wad of five dollar bills. No, no -- bribery is a bad idea here. Or anywhere.
 UPDATE: Both the principal and the job-seeker remain obdurate. He continues to teach at his current school. 
 My daughter, an older teenager and experienced baby sitter, received a job offer that pays one rate if the child is awake and a lower rate if the child is asleep. But my daughter would be on the job whether or not the child was awake. And I wondered, if the child slept only part of the time, would my daughter have to keep track of those periods? Isn't this unfair? Doesn't it exploit teenagers who feel awkward negotiating with adults? name withheld, Maplewood, N.J.
 I quite like this two-tier system, as far as it goes. Why not add a third tier if the child throws a tantrum -- baby-sitter combat pay -- or a fourth for excessive exposure to Raffi, compensating a sitter who has to listen to ''Baby Beluga'' more than a dozen times?
 This system is odd and unnecessary -- a single rate that factors in sleeping and waking time would achieve similar results -- but it is not unjust. Our national innumeracy notwithstanding, your teenager should be able to handle the bookkeeping if, for example, the child is awake for the first half of the evening and asleep for the second. The pay scale is disclosed in advance, and while it can be tough for even an older teenager to negotiate with adults, your daughter can decline the job if she dislikes the terms. She would not be compelled to accept it by economic necessity -- as an experienced sitter, she will find other work. If she does take the job, however, ethics requires her to resist the temptation to pour coffee into that child to keep her awake at the higher pay scale.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); ETHICS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (74%) Baby Sitters; Ethics; Wages and Salaries; Education and Schools; Beards; Teachers and School Employees; Education (Preschool)

PERSON: Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



81 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 6; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: In Miami, Art Without Angst

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
FROM the backyard of Gloria Estefan's estate on the private Star Island, much of the imagery that transforms Miami the city into Miami the state of mind lies in plain view: the Art Deco skyline of Miami Beach, the shimmering towers, the spidery MacArthur Causeway stretching for a half-mile across the aqua expanse of Biscayne Bay. 
 On a recent Friday, another familiar local sight sat in clear view on a wicker settee on Ms. Estefan's terrace: Romero Britto, a Brazilian-born Pop artist whose work seems as ubiquitous in South Florida as pastel hotels and $15 mojitos.
''Everybody knows Romero,'' said Ms. Estefan, a friend of Mr. Britto's. 
 During the internationally telecast Super Bowl pregame show today, 140 million people will also become familiar with his art, when Cirque du Soleil performers do acrobatic routines within a moving set made up of three-dimensional art pieces like palm trees -- essentially, a living Britto canvas the size of a football field.
 While his cartoon Cubism has been dismissed by some critics as commercial fluff, Mr. Britto, 43, has an upbeat, almost childlike innocence. Metal braces glisten on his teeth, and he dresses in kaleidoscopic colors. 
 That has helped to make him something of a mascot to Miamians, a reflection of the city as it likes to see itself: sunny, welcoming and irrepressibly optimistic.
 Embodying the sort of immigrant success story that resonates deeply among many Miamians, Mr. Britto has leveraged his high-wattage art and personality to rise from selling art painted on newspaper (he could not afford canvases) on the street into a nearly $12 million a year Pop art empire. He is friendly with socialites and TV stars, sells to prominent collectors and cruises the banyan-lined boulevards in a yellow Ferrari convertible straight out of ''Miami Vice.''
 ''In the end of the day, people don't want to hang a piece of art in their living room that is horrifying,'' Mr. Britto said, explaining his success. ''I make images to inspire people, not to make them depressed and scared.''
 No coincidence, then, that in South Florida, Mr. Britto's feel-good art is nearly as hard to avoid as humidity. His loopy, minimalist kittens, hearts, flowers and smiling faces -- rendered in colors so saturated they look bright even through sunglasses -- rise in giant sculptures at rail stations, corporate headquarters, housing developments and on paintings in homes like those of Ms. Estefan and David Caruso. They are even on murals that envelop the buses at the Fort Lauderdale airport. 
 Last year, when former Gov. Jeb Bush, whose wife, Columba, is a friend of Mr. Britto's, wished to present Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain with a token of the upbeat Florida spirit, he presented him with an original Britto painting. 
 Mr. Britto also counts Andre Agassi, Elton John, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Whitney Houston, Michael Jordan, Pat Riley and Bill Clinton among people who have owned his work.
 ''A lot of the people who live here are island people -- from Cuba, Haiti,'' Ms. Estefan said. ''People are very vibrant, and color is important living here. You're inspired every day by the sun, the sky, the landscape, the lushness. His painting and artwork reflect that.''
 They also seem to reflect something deeper: a tendency of locals to behold this city of sharp contrasts (racial, economic) as a palm-dotted land of opportunity -- just watch out for the hurricanes and real estate sharks -- where Latin Americans from the South and snowbirds from the North are all invited to participate in a salsa-inflected version of the American dream. 
 In his artwork, Mr. Britto studiously avoids many basic themes of contemporary art: disorder, tension, sensuality (arguably, the very things that makes Miami itself fascinating to outsiders). Instead, the work virtually explodes with warmth, optimism and love -- Matisse channeling Picasso by way of Hello Kitty.
 ''I've loved Romero's work for many years,'' explained Senator Edward M. Kennedy in an e-mail message -- Alina Shriver, the wife of Mr. Kennedy's nephew Anthony Shriver, runs the licensing operations of Mr. Britto's gallery, Britto Central, in Miami Beach. ''As an amateur painter myself, I admire his dramatic use of color and his bold images. He's a talented artist and a special friend of the Kennedy family.''
 Mr. Britto has also won the respect of some prominent art collectors, including Norman Braman, an automobile dealer and former owner of the Philadelphia Eagles, and his wife, Irma. ''He's like Calder was, or Miro was, with the warmth of the colors,'' said Irma Braman.
 Some critics are less supportive.
 ''I find the work of Romero Britto to be a commercial, flashy and warmed-over version of Pop art,'' Elisa Turner, a critic who writes for The Miami Herald and for ArtNews, wrote in an e-mail message.
 Paula Harper, an associate professor of art at the University of Miami and a contributor to Art in America, said Mr. Britto incorporates elements of Pop art and Cubism in his work, but he is not an artist of Keith Haring's stature. It ''looks like art; it contains references to art,'' she said, but ''he's really a brilliant commercial designer, in my opinion.''
 MR. BRITTO lists 12 museums that have purchased his works, including those at Florida International University in Miami and Tufts. But perhaps the impact of a Pop artist is best measured by the square foot. And around Dade County, Mr. Britto's work is everywhere. 
 One afternoon last month, Mr. Britto navigated his black Bentley Arnage (one of four cars he owns, along with his Ferrari 360 Spider, his Range Rover and his lemon yellow 1968 Ford Mustang) past the Royal Palm hotel on Collins Avenue in Miami Beach, which contains Britto, an upscale restaurant owned by a friend that is filled with his artwork.
 Over the causeway, the car hummed past a large Britto sculpture of dancing children in front of the Miami Children's Museum, then, a few miles later, a giant sculpture of a running woman affixed to a housing complex and hovering over Interstate 95. Commuters on the Metrorail system in Miami near the Dadeland North station pass his 45-foot ''Welcome.'' 
 ''We need more images and news that is good news, to make us wake up in the morning and do something good for yourself and someone else,'' he explained. 
 Plenty of fans agree. His studio downtown serves essentially as an art factory, with assistants working in multiple shifts, a dozen at a time, to fill in the multiple layers of color on his black and white drawings. 
 Original Britto paintings sell from $18,000 to more than $280,000. Romero Britto mouse pads, ties, skullcaps and artwork are also available at the gallery and online, and prints and small sculptures are available at retail outlets on 80 cruise ships, and he has licensed his images to Movado, Swatch, Nicole Miller, Pepsi and Disney. 
 The scale of the enterprise has led to income that seems staggering to some in the Miami art world. Told his revenues are $12 million a year, Bernice Steinbaum, who has operated a gallery in Miami for 31 years, responded, ''I think I'm going to commit suicide.'' That figure, she said, ''is a very large sum for one artist to be earning.'' 
 Mr. Britto said he does not pay attention to those who are jealous of his success, or critical of his work. 
 ''I really don't care what a small group of people say, I just keep painting,'' he said. ''I'm not comparing me to these geniuses, but the pioneers of aviation, people who were trying to make something fly, people said they were crazy.''
 He lives with his wife, Cheryl, a former nurse, and son, Brendan, 18, in a six-bedroom French Mediterranean-style house in the Pinecrest section of South Miami. His home's bright yellow walls are filled with work by his art heroes, Picasso, Warhol and Rauschenberg. 
 ''I feel comfortable with good stuff,'' he explained, with a boyish laugh that comes out in wheezy, staccato bursts from the rear of his teeth, like the old television cartoon character Muttley.
 Raised in Recife, Brazil, as one of nine children by a single mother, Mr. Britto barely knew his father, a policeman, who left the family when Romero was just a boy. After dabbling in law school in Brazil, he moved to Miami in 1987 to make a career of art, though he had no formal training. 
 National recognition came unexpectedly in 1989, when Michel Roux, the importer of Absolut vodka, commissioned him to create an illustration for a national print campaign. (Mr. Roux learned about the artist through a prominent Swedish family Mr. Britto had met while traveling through Europe in his early 20s.) 
 Mr. Britto, who is deeply involved in local charities, got to know powerful families like the Kennedys, who became early champions. 
 But while sterling social connections have proved strategically useful, friends insist that Mr. Britto comes across without the taint of opportunism. 
 ''The allure of the artist is the allure of the man,'' said Mrs. Braman, the collector, who recalled Mr. Britto's teaching her grandchildren how to paint in his studio when they were younger.
 Sanford and Dolores Ziff, local philanthropists whose names adorn the new ballet and opera house downtown (Sanford Ziff, an optometrist, founded Sunglass Hut), are close friends who sometimes find themselves in competition for the relentlessly social Mr. Britto's attention. 
 ''I was at a dinner party last night,'' said Ms. Ziff, speaking recently from her penthouse in Miami Beach, filled with works by Matisse, Lichtenstein and Britto. ''A woman said to me, 'I am the dearest friend of Romero Britto.' I said, 'No, I am the dearest friend of Romero Britto.' '' 
 Still, another friend, the actor David Caruso, insists that Mr. Britto should be considered a serious artist first, a personality second. 
 ''There is an onus placed on many artists to go to hipper, glibber, darker places with their work to make a statement, when in reality, Romero is exploring the other side of that expression -- the happiness of life,'' said Mr. Caruso, who owns 12 Britto paintings and named Mr. Britto the godfather of his 16-month-old son, Marquez. 
 Mr. Britto, lingering over coffee at a cafe on Lincoln Road, summarized his career more succinctly.
 ''It helps so much,'' he said, ''if you like people and people like you.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A WARM EMBRACE -- Romero Britto with his sculpture ''Welcome,'' in Miami. (Photo by Alex Quesada for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 SUNNY DAYS -- Romero Britto signing limited editions in his studio. Left, ''Kendall Kids 2'' is one of four of his sculptures at the Kendall Village shopping center in Miami. Above left, Mr. Britto with his Ferrari 360 Spider. (Photographs by Alex Quesada for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%) Art; Biographical Information

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%) Romero Britto; Alex Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (64%) Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



82 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Bites

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
THE place had been open all of five minutes, but Restaurant Girl was not backing down.
 ''The prosciutto is American? '' she asked a waitress at E. U., an East Village restaurant that was trying to overcome a series of setbacks in its first year by hiring a promising young chef, Akhtar Nawab, whose debut was that night.
The waitress answered in the affirmative. It was one of the few things about the food she was sure of, since the time was 6:15 p.m. and the mostly new menu had only been explained at a staff meeting 10 minutes earlier. 
 ''Interesting, interesting,'' Restaurant Girl said, the gold sparkles in her makeup twinkling despite E. U.'s subdued lighting. She smiled at the waitress, who walked away to find the answer to a query about which country in the European Union the crispy short ribs were native to. 
 Restaurant Girl pulled out a small digital camera and snapped photos of the informal brick and wood decor. ''Classic AvroKo'' she said, referring to the design firm. 
 As appetizers arrived, one of E. U.'s owners, Jason Hennings, came to the table and apologized if the staff was not well-versed in the menu.
 ''It's a real coup for you to have convinced Akhtar to come here,'' Restaurant Girl said, changing the subject.
 Mr. Jennings proceeded to debate about the merits and failings of E. U.'s four previous chefs. Finally he stepped away, giving a very slight nod. ''That was bananas! Bananas!'' Restaurant Girl said. ''Like an owner pleading for mercy!''
 Restaurant Girl is the pseudonym of Danyelle Freeman, 32, a former actress who has been breaking restaurant news and filing reviews on her blog, www.restaurantgirl.com, since March 2006. By last Sunday, three days after her meal, an 829-word review noting that ''the saga of E. U. continues'' and including snapshots of the food and a criticism that the quail was so undercooked ''it practically walked over to the table on its own,'' was posted on the Web site. 
 Ms. Freeman had beaten to publication a rival blog, Eater, whose scribes had also been at the restaurant that night, and which on Monday reported itself satisfied with Mr. Nawab's hamburger, noting that if E. U. survives, it will be ''an underdog story for the ages.''
 There is a new food game in the city that never stops grazing. A proliferation of blogs treating every menu revision, construction permit, clash of egos and suspiciously easy-to-get reservation as high drama is changing the rules of the restaurant world and forcing everyone from owners to chefs to publicists to get used to the added scrutiny.
 Diners hungry for the next, the newest, the best, and with no patience to wait for the annual Zagat Guide, are benefiting. 
 Unlike an earlier wave of food blogs focused on home cooking, recipes and basic restaurant recommendations, the new breed is gossipy and competitive; it trafficks in pointed restaurant criticism and tidbits of news -- Craftsteak has installed a new stove! Emmerite beans have been added to the menu at Tasting Room! -- and is unsettling the ground of the restaurant industry.
 ''Food blogs have reached a critical mass with readers in the last six months,'' said Phillip Baltz, owner of the restaurant public relations firm Baltz & Company.
 Mr. Baltz said two restaurants he represents that opened in 2006, Little Owl and Boqueria, benefited greatly from the early attention of blogs. ''It has completely changed the way we do things,'' he said. ''Bloggers are now a very important part of the media landscape because a lot of diners get their information from them.''
 THERE are almost as many new ways to read about the restaurant world as there are blogs. Grub Street (nymag.com/daily/food), New York magazine's food blog started in August last year and written mostly by Josh Ozersky, 39, and Daniel Maurer, 28, has a regular ''Restroom Report.''
 Zach Brooks, author of Midtown Lunch, chronicles the comings and goings of sidewalk carts and restaurant traffic between 32nd Street and Central Park the same way paparazzi follow every step of Angelina Jolie. 
 Eater has a recurring feature called ''Brunibetting'' that sets odds on how many stars Frank Bruni, the restaurant critic of The New York Times (who has his own Times-sanctioned blog, Diner's Journal will bestow in his reviews. Last Tuesday, the odds were set on Gordon Ramsay at the London: Zero Stars: 9 to 1; One Star: 5 to 1; Two Stars, 3 to 1; Three Stars: 6 to 1; and Four Stars: 1,100 to 1. On Wednesday, Mr. Bruni's review appeared, awarding the restaurant two stars.
 Clever features are nice. But being first with news about openings and instant judgments about dinner is more important. 
 ''I'm just a dude with a ridiculously opinionated stance on all things food,'' said a 36-year-old blogger who calls himself Augie. He has a day job at a Wall Street firm that, he said, might not appreciate the time he devotes to his blog, so he requested anonymity. His site, Augieland (augieland.blogs.com), made a splash after he ate at the Japanese restaurant Morimoto in Chelsea on 10 consecutive nights and filed a detailed review. Many diners seeking news of Morimoto, which is owned by Masaharu Morimoto, a former combatant on ''Iron Chef,'' looked it up on Internet search engines and were directed to Augie's review. His blog received thousands of visitors. 
 Last Monday, a freezing evening in Manhattan, Ben Levanthal, 28, and Lockhart Steele, 33, the partners behind Eater, stopped into Morimoto. It was nearly packed, rippling with energy. After sampling tuna tartar with creme fraiche and avocado, they headed across 10th Avenue to Craftsteak. As Mr. Levanthal surveyed the nearly empty space, he said it was likely the steaks would be cooked properly because, as he reported, the restaurant had upgraded the power of its gas grill. 
 While some restaurant bloggers are just looking to spend a fun night out, the Eater duo, new media entrepreneurs, are hoping to create a lasting business. Mr. Levanthal said the Eater blog attracts ''hundreds of thousands'' of unique visitors a month and sells ads. They added Eater LA in November and are considering San Francisco and Chicago next. 
 Adam Roberts, 27, was a frustrated law student when he started posting restaurant reviews on the popular message board eGullet . After Mr. Roberts triggered a long discussion about a nasty review he posted of the Chicago restaurant Charlie Trotter's, he set up his own site, The Amateur Gourmet. A recipe he posted after the 2005 Super Bowl for a cupcake resembling Janet Jackson's breast as glimpsed during her ''wardrobe malfunction'' was linked to by the blogs collegehumor.com and instapundit.com. ''It was huge and catapulted me to fame on the Internet,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''By the next day, I had 100,000 hits.'' 
 He turns a small profit with his blog using an ad-sales service called Blogads, which sells advertising space on his homepage for $800 a month. The success of his site led a book agent to call, which led to the sale of a proposal to Bantam/Dell for a $40,000 advance, Mr. Roberts said. 
 Ed Levine, a food writer who occasionally contributes to The Times, features Mr. Roberts and a couple of other distinctive food bloggers on his Serious Eats Web site, which went up in November. Mr. Levine realized the extent of the audience for restaurant blogs after posting an entry on his personal blog, Ed Levine Eats, last April 15, saying he planned to have lunch at Per Se in an hour and figured that for the same price he could afford 77 lunches at Gray's Papaya. During his last course at Per Se, the waiters, with a grand flourish, brought out a hot dog. Someone at the restaurant had seen his blog entry only an hour earlier. 
 Given the small-time finances of most restaurant blogs, and the fact that most bloggers operate apart from the traditional news media, ethical standards are all over the map. Restaurant critics for established publications generally give a new establishment a few weeks or months to settle in and visit several times, spending their employers' money. 
 Jennifer Leuzzi, who runs the blog Snack (snack.blogs.com) and is also a freelance writer, said she sometimes accepts free meals from restaurants and publicists, but notes it in her postings. Her blog does not take ads, and she sees it mostly as a way to promote her writing.
 Mr. Roberts once wrote a letter to Alain Ducasse begging to be invited for free to enjoy the $320 white truffle tasting menu at Alain Ducasse at the Essex House, which has since closed. The experience, presented on Amateur Gourmet as a humorous series of photos with speech bubbles, won an award from a Web site for best food blog post of 2006. Taking freebies earned Mr. Roberts the scorn of Grub Street, which follows New York magazine's prohibitions against most freebies and termed him ''a world-class mooch.''
 In the old days, before restaurant blogs started gaining traction with New York diners -- that is, last year -- restaurateurs and their public relations companies were more in control of when diners learned about a new place. But with blogs and potential tipsters on every street corner, little is under control.
 Ms. Freeman was the first to break the news that the Russian Tea Room was re-opening with Gary Robins as head chef because she was walking past the West 57th Street location one day last October, noticed construction workers taking a break outside and stopped to ask questions.
 Some restaurateurs are only grudgingly adapting. In a telephone interview, Mr. Hennings, the owner of E. U., said he had no idea who Ms. Freeman was the night she dropped by, but he pegged her as a blogger because she was snapping photos. He said it was unfair to judge a restaurant based on the first half-hour of service by a new chef. ''These blogs can be ridiculously hurtful,'' he said.
 But others, like David Chang, owner of Momofuku Noodle Bar and Momofuku Ssam Bar, have embraced the blog world.
 ''It's instant marketing,'' Mr. Chang said. ''They get the notice out there. It's a more egalitarian thing.''
 Ms. Freeman, Restaurant Girl, who had a small speaking part on an episode of ''The Sopranos,'' said she wants to break into the hard-to-crack fraternity of those who are paid to write about food.
 On her blog's ''about me'' section, she muses: ''It's just a city full of 'Restaurant Girl's and boys' with a right to their own opinions. I just happen to think mine is the best.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the new breed of restaurant bloggers on the Internet misidentified the blog that first reported the reopening in Manhattan of the Russian Tea Room, with Gary Robins as the chef. It was the blog Snack, written by Jennifer Leuzzi -- not the blog Restaurant Girl, written by Danyelle Freeman. 
 The article and a picture caption also misspelled the surname of an owner of another blog, Eater. It is Ben Leventhal, not Levanthal.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SMORGASBORD OF VIEWS -- Food bloggers at Momofuku Ssam Bar in Manhattan. From left, Daniel Maurer, Laren Spirer, Zach Brooks, Jennifer Leuzzi, Danyelle Freeman, ''Nosher'' (who is undercover), Adam Roberts, Ben Levanthal and Josh Ozersky. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 APPETITE FOR BUSINESS -- For Lockhart Steele, left, and Ben Levanthal, food blogging is more than a night out. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (53%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) Restaurants; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Public Relations and Publicity

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: Allen Salkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



83 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Hyundai Santa Fe; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: A Korean Crossover Gets Its Green Card

BYLINE: By BOB KNOLL

 BODY:
BY now, everyone knows that South Korean automakers have come a long way since their first halting attempts to sell tinny econoboxes to Americans. The distance Hyundai has traveled is no longer figurative; it can be measured in miles.
 The new-from-the-ground-up 2007 Santa Fe, for instance, wears the logo of the Seoul-based company, but it is as Korean-American as kimchee at a suburban A.& P. This larger, more substantial, car-based S.U.V. -- a crossover, in the parlance -- was developed specifically for American tastes. It was designed at the new Hyundai Design Center in Irvine, Calif., and rolls off a new assembly line in Montgomery, Ala.
And, of course, it carries a name that evokes adobe missions, Georgia O'Keefe paintings and dried chili peppers. 
 In styling and performance, the second-generation Santa Fe is a significant step up from the model originally introduced in 2000. It offers an optional third-row seat, which is becoming the price of admission even among the compact utility wagons once known as cute utes. 
 It also incorporates many of the latest safety features found on much more expensive automobiles.
 Prices, which start around $21,000 and can reach $33,000, fall squarely in the middle of the hot crossover market. But like other Hyundais, the Santa Fe is priced to undercut similarly equipped competitors from Toyota, Honda, Nissan and others.
 My test vehicle was a Santa Fe Limited, the most expensive of three trim lines. With front drive, the Limited starts at $26,715. The base model GLS starts at $21,715 and the midrange SE at $24,415. Ordering all-wheel drive adds $2,000 to each price. 
 Unlike several of its closest competitors, the Santa Fe does not come with a four-cylinder engine. The base GLS's engine, a 2.7-liter V-6, was carried over but upgraded with variable valve timing, a variable intake system and other improvements. It is rated at 185 horsepower and 183 pound-feet of torque. Alone in its class, this model comes with a five-speed manual transmission, although a four-speed automatic is optional.
 Optional on the SE and standard on the Limited is a new 3.3-liter V-6 with 242 horsepower and 226 pound-feet of torque. This engine comes only with a five-speed automatic. 
 Both engines meet California's ultra-low-emission standards and burn regular-grade gasoline.
 As is common these days, the all-wheel drive system is electronically controlled and splits the torque to direct it to the wheels that can use it best. Uncommon on crossover utilities, however, is a lock control that will split the torque 50-50, front to rear, an advantage in mud, deep snow or off-road conditions. 
 Hyundai has made an unusually strong commitment to standard safety equipment in the vehicles it sells in this country. The Santa Fe has six air bags, including side curtains that help to protect all three rows of seats. Bags like these have proved effective in reducing injuries and deaths in side-impact crashes. 
 Also standard is another proven device, an electronic stability control, that helps the driver maintain control in sudden maneuvers or other emergency situations that could result in a spinout or rollover. 
 Four-wheel antilock brakes are standard as well, and they incorporate two additional safety features: emergency brake assist, which applies full-force braking if sensors detect the need for an emergency stop, and electronic brake force distribution, which balances the braking force regardless of the vehicle's load. 
 The Santa Fe has done well in crash tests. It received five stars, the highest rating, in front and side-impact tests by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. And it earned a ''good'' rating in the front-offset test by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
 Styling verdicts are best left to the individual, but to my eye the new Santa Fe has a lot going for it. It eschews the zoomy rear quarter panels and small rear side windows of some Japanese utilities, which can create large blind spots for the driver. Instead, Hyundai's designers stuck to softly rounded corners without pronounced styling accents. This, in my view, is a big improvement over the strange sci-fi contours of the first-generation Santa Fe. 
 While the Hyundai's size is similar to rivals like the Toyota RAV4 and Highlander, the Honda CR-V and the Chevrolet Equinox, it manages to eke out a bit more space inside. 
 The third row, for example, is almost habitable. It is split 50/50 and can be folded flat. Yet I would pass up the third seat, even if it is one of the few that adults can use, in favor of the two-row version that has roomy rear storage with two convenient compartments.
 The second row folds nearly flat -- no need to remove the head restraints -- and locks in the down position. Atypically, the windows in the rear doors roll down all the way.
 Interiors are becoming ever more appealing, especially in European and Japanese models, with smart color choices and textures that give a feeling of luxury and value. The new Santa Fe incorporates many of these intangibles into a moderately priced wagon. Instruments are simple and clear, with blue lighting at night. The controls are logical, so there is no need to consult the manual. The console box is a roomy two-tier affair; there are sturdy cup holders.
 The redesign has improved the Santa Fe's performance in all respects. The new 3.3-liter engine in my test vehicle was responsive, and the overall performance was enhanced by the smooth-shifting automatic. The use of five speeds allows a more aggressive first gear and a fifth gear biased toward economy.
 With the larger engine, fuel economy is rated at 19 m.p.g. in town and 24 on the highway. While not class-leading figures, these numbers are competitive. My average was 20.6, a bit better than the 4-cylinder Toyota Highlander that I drove a while back, but not as good as my mileage (23 m.p.g.) with the 4-cylinder RAV4. With the 2.7-liter engine and automatic transmission, the Santa Fe is rated 21 in town, 26 on the highway.
 Steering and handling are smooth and steady and, while none too sporty, are certainly good enough in this class. The fairly tight turning circle (35.8 feet) was appreciated. The four-wheel disc brakes are firm, with a nice, progressive feel. 
 The ride is about what I'd expected of a small crossover, firm and well controlled and not stiff or jerky like many truck-based S.U.V.'s. The highway ride is reasonably quiet, with low wind and tire noise.
 Consumers are learning that crossover wagons are worthwhile choices when a sedan doesn't seem to have enough space and heavy truck-based S.U.V.'s seem too clumsy and thirsty. There are many crossovers on the market, with more arriving every few months.
 There are a few standouts in this rather large group, including relatively compact models like the RAV4, the CR-V and the Subaru Forester. I would add the new Santa Fe to that group. It is roomy, cleanly designed, reasonably priced and it comes with a lot of safety features.INSIDE TRACK: If you are thinking of crossing over, here's a crossover worthy of your short list.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A review last Sunday of the Hyundai Santa Fe, whose name evokes New Mexico's adobe missions, dried chili peppers and a landscape immortalized by a famous local artist, misspelled the surname of that artist. She was Georgia O'Keeffe, not O'Keefe.

GRAPHIC: Photos: UPWARDLY MOBILE -- Pleasing colors and textures give the new Santa Fe an upscale feel.
 GROWTH SPURT -- Redesigned for Americans, the Santa Fe is larger and Alabama-built.Chart: ''A New Crop of Car-Based Utilities'' lists features and specifications for selected automobiles. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: HYUNDAI CORP (92%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); FE LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Hyundai Corp

TICKER: 011760 (KSE) (92%); HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); FEL (ASX) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (66%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (66%)

PERSON: Bob Knoll

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



84 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2426 words

HEADLINE: This Hammer for Hire

BYLINE: By JOHNNY DWYER

 BODY:
ON a bitterly cold Thursday morning last month, a construction worker opened a steel gate and entered the windowless storefront of an apartment building in Morrisania in the Bronx. 
 It was 5:58 a.m. The moon still hung like a lone light bulb over Bill Rainey Park across the street, illuminating a wreath of flowers marking the spot where a man had been stabbed to death on Christmas Eve. As the worker opened the gate, its clatter shook the cool silence along Dawson Street.
Within minutes, more people converged on the building. Some had just awakened from naps in their idling cars. Others emerged out of the darkness, also headed toward the block's only lighted doorway. Inside the building was the headquarters of United Hispanic Construction Workers, where its members gather in hope of finding a job for a day, a week or a month. 
 United Hispanic is what is known as a coalition, one of the dozens of minority organizations that try to shoulder their way into the construction trade. Forged during the idealism of the 1960s, and later exploited in many quarters by opportunists who have tainted much of the field, the coalitions were born to help disenfranchised laborers get a piece of the pie. 
 With New York enjoying an unprecedented building boom, the pie is particularly big these days. According to figures from the New York Building Congress, a consortium of contractors, developers, architects and others in the industry, there are 123,000 jobs in construction in the city -- almost 15 percent more than in 2004 -- and the members of United Hispanic Construction Workers are determined to land some of them. 
 As the group's members assembled inside the hall, two of the coalition's vans pulled up to the curb. Daryl Mackey, a husky 34-year-old who works as a field representative for the coalition, hopped out of one of them. His boss, David Rodriguez, the field director for United Hispanic, hollered out to him: ''Yo! D! You ready to work?'' 
 As Mr. Mackey, grumbling, made his way inside, Mr. Rodriguez added, ''Early bird gets the early worm.'' 
 The coalition concept was born in Harlem in the '60s. While its general goal was to secure construction jobs for minority workers, its particular focus was on job sites in workers' own neighborhoods. 
 What is seen as important is not so much the type of job as the size of the paycheck. For many workers with only a high school degree, the pay can be transformative. Union laborers, the least skilled among the construction trades, make $47.42 an hour. Those who join the union also receive benefits and credits toward retirement. Even the nonunion laborers with United Hispanic, Mr. Mackey said, will not work for less than $10 an hour and often command much more. These levels of compensation are a far cry from the world of the minimum wage, even if the state minimum did rise to $7.15 an hour on Jan. 1. 
 This year, $21 billion will be spent on construction in New York, an increase of nearly 30 percent over four years ago. But in sharp contrast to this robust figure is the magnitude of unemployment in the city's minority areas compared with the city as a whole. In 2005, for example, when the city's unemployment rate was 5.9 percent, blacks and Hispanics were enduring ''recession level'' unemployment rates of 8.7 and 7.0 percent, according to the Community Service Society of New York, a nonprofit group concerned with issues affecting low-income people.
 At the same time that construction jobs are abundant, the shadow of corruption continues to darken the coalition world. Last September, the Manhattan district attorney, Robert Morgenthau, filed charges of racketeering and extortion against four leaders of two Brooklyn-based minority coalitions. These are the latest in a series of indictments by Mr. Morgenthau's office involving coalitions over the past 20 years. 
 But there are still jobs to be had, and the members of United Hispanic are setting out to find some. Pursuing a Paycheck
 Each weekday United Hispanic workers ''shape'' -- search for work -- by driving throughout Manhattan and the Bronx and visiting job sites. 
 ''We the only ones that come out this early,'' Mr. Mackey said. ''We meet contractors when they're just getting to the job.'' 
 With the vans still parked in front of the coalition office, Mr. Mackey climbed into the driver's seat of one of them and addressed the 13 workers crunched inside. 
 ''Hey, fellas! Listen up!'' he said. ''We all got to stay together when we get out in the field. We don't want to split up. We try to keep everything tight in case somebody tries to attack us.''
 On the floor of the van behind the driver's seat sat an olive duffel bag. Inside were a dozen pick handles, rods of maple slightly larger than an axe handle. 
 ''We carry these because we recognize that we're in the ghettos and we recognize that there are people out there who don't like us,'' Mr. Rodriguez had said earlier when he carried the bag out of the coalition office. ''So we need these to defend ourselves.'' 
 For coalitions, labor violence is a real threat. This coalition has been involved in three significant brawls with rival coalitions at Manhattan job sites in the last 15 years; one ended with a United Hispanic member shooting two members of a Brooklyn group. 
 Shortly after sunrise, Mr. Mackey guided his van underneath the Bruckner Expressway toward Manhattan. On a curb at a gas station near 148th Street, a group of more than a dozen laborers waited in the cold.
 When a rider suggested that the workers were probably illegal immigrants willing to take lower wages, Mr. Mackey replied: ''We ain't knocking them. Everybody got to eat.'' 
 The day's mission was spelled out in a handwritten list of 15 job sites stretching from 156th Street in the Bronx south to ground zero. The list was United Hispanic's market analysis, culled from the collective intelligence of its leaders as they move from job site to job site.
 As he drove, Mr. Mackey pointed to a fence that had sprung up at 138th Street and Bruckner Boulevard, a sign of impending construction. He jotted down a note on a folded piece of paper. 
 The city has grown thick with such signs recently. Each concrete mixer blocking traffic, each crane looming over the horizon, means a potential paycheck for United Hispanic members. 
 At his first stop, a warehouse at 47th Street and 11th Avenue in Manhattan, Mr. Mackey and a colleague strode past the disapproving glare of three union members manning a large inflatable rat, a sign of a nonunion work site.
 Mr. Mackey climbed a dusty interior stairwell searching for the foreman. A carpenter guided them to a utility elevator, and on the fifth floor they found a worker in a wood-paneled room outfitted with three folding chairs and a space heater.
 Mr. Mackey greeted the worker with a smile, and soon the United Hispanic field representative was on the phone with the foreman. Mr. Mackey learned that the few workers on site were prepping the building for demolition -- the sort of work that is ideal for his members.
 ''He said just give me a week and he'll do something,'' Mr. Mackey said. ''As big as this building is ...'' he added hopefully, implying there would be a lot of jobs.
 As the shape van wound down to ground zero and back to the Bronx, a picture of construction employment in the city emerged: the sites with a majority of nonwhite workers were nonunion jobs, and the mostly white sites were union locations. But every visit followed the same script: a handshake, a smile, and a handing over of United Hispanic's card.
 By the time Mr. Mackey returned to the shape hall shortly after noon, several members were snoozing in the back of the van. No members got work that morning, but that was not the shape's sole purpose. 
 ''I could have sat in the office and got the boss on the phone,'' Mr. Mackey said. ''We got to always come out to see what's going on.'' In this industry, familiarity breeds opportunity.Idealism, Indictments
 Jim Haughton is the last of the city's original coalition leaders. A wiry man with combed-back silver hair, Mr. Haughton, 77, helped to found a group called Harlem Fight Back in 1964, shortly after the passage of the Civil Rights Act. The group sought to use the energy of the civil rights movement to open the historically white construction unions.
 Mr. Haughton set up in a storefront at Fifth Avenue and 125th Street, where he and the other founders of Harlem Fight Back began organizing demonstrations, going to court and ''shaping'' black workers. ''Thousands of them began to knock on the doors and say, 'We want construction jobs, we got skills that are required already,' '' Mr. Haughton said. 
 The effort succeeded. ''Black men increased their share in the construction labor market the most during the period from 1970 to 1980,'' said Francine Moccio, director of the Cornell University Institute for Women and Work. ''The 1970s was a time of very strong activism and direct action on the part of black organizations.'' 
 Beginning in the mid-'70s, however, some corrupt coalitions arose. In Dr. Moccio's words, ''They would bust up the construction sites at night, and then they'd call the contractor the next morning and offer them protection.'' 
 The corruption allowed critics to dismiss the movement's principal argument: that coalition members wanted jobs. Moreover, Dr. Moccio said, the criminal activity ''weakened the foothold that blacks had made in the industry.'' 
 Louis Coletti, president and chief executive of the Building Trades Employers Association, a contractors' group, expresses a view of the coalitions that is widely shared in the industry. ''They're extortionists in most cases,'' he said. ''In most cases, they do not serve the people they purport to.''
 Labor work is a rough-and-tumble world. Mr. Rodriguez -- himself a former gang member who spent four years in prison on a 1998 conviction for tax fraud related to a security company he runs -- was included in a sweeping set of 31 coalition indictments in 1993. He was acquitted. 
 In any event, Mr. Haughton said, United Hispanic is a solid organization. ''They're a very consistent group,'' he said, ''well organized and very effective at getting their members work. They're really doing a great job.''Under the El, a Job
 When a coalition succeeds, it serves people who are often scrambling for a foothold in life.
 One such person is Lateef Legree, a muscular 26-year-old from Brownsville, Brooklyn. Mr. Legree returned to the neighborhood in 2000 after serving two and a half years in prison for attempted robbery, and as an ex-felon without a high school diploma, he faced seemingly insurmountable challenges in finding a job.
 Mr. Legree visited the office of a coalition in Brooklyn, in a building on Livonia Avenue under the el, and put his name on its roster. It was a good move. The coalition, he said, ''got me a job pretty quick.''
 ''I was making $8 an hour,'' he said. ''He had me working with Chinese people. Fixing buildings, renovating buildings.''
 Matters improved still more. Mr. Legree moved to a job at Public School 150, just across the street from his apartment at Brownsville Houses. It was at that job that he received his ''book'' -- became a member of a laborers' union. 
 But the work did not last. Mr. Legree was laid off, and he returned to his coalition and asked for help in appealing the dismissal to his foreman. 
 According to Mr. Legree, the coalition leader ''came the next day and spoke to them and said: 'There's no way in the world you laying him off. Look at all these white guys. The guy lives across the street.' '' 
 Mr. Legree continued: ''So they hired me back.''
 The intervention was critical because of what the coalitions claim is the ''first fired, last hired'' phenomenon. As Mr. Rodriguez explained, ''If they join the union, it doesn't mean that the union is going to go out and hustle for them, try to get them a job as hard as we do.'' For that reason, it was essential that Mr. Legree's coalition seek to reinstate him. Barbells and Timberlands
 On an afternoon two days before the van trip, Mr. Rodriguez got a call from a contractor seeking six laborers for a job the next morning in nearby Parkchester. He instructed Mr. Mackey and another field representative to gather members from the hall. 
 Five men shuffled into his windowless office. ''All right, everybody here got their Social Security and ID?'' Mr. Rodriguez asked. Each man filled out a slip of paper called a referral card, then signed his name in a green binder.
 Ricardo Bullock, a 46-year-old laborer nicknamed Big Rick, meandered into the office.
 ''Hey, you don't want to work?'' Mr. Rodriguez asked. ''Twenty-six dollars an hour.'' 
 A smile spread across Mr. Bullock's face.
 ''Aw, hell, yeah, I want to work,'' he said as he stepped up to sign the book.
 On the day of the shape, after the vans returned, about 50 workers convened in the shape hall. One corner there serves as a graveyard for a handful of exercise bikes; in another, barbells line the floor beneath weight benches. A man hawking pornographic DVDs approached some workers playing dominoes. Along the wall, a few coalition members sipped Courvoisier from plastic cups. 
 The audience was largely black and Latino men, and five women, ranging in age from late teens to early 50s. Most wore the construction worker uniform of Timberland boots, dusty jeans, plaid flannel shirts and pumpkin-colored Carhartt jackets. Some wore Yankee caps; others had Muslim skullcaps or Rastafarian tams. 
 ''Yo! Yo!'' someone shouted. The meeting began. 
 Mr. Rodriguez began to address the crowd with a mixture of corner slang and activist lingo.
 Members are not required to attend this meeting, which coincides with the Thursday payday for most city construction workers. It is an opportunity to relax, talk business and pay dues.
 For Mr. Rodriguez, it is a chance to address pressing issues. This week, the topic was the work ethic. 
 ''There's no such thing as a $10-an-hour pace and a $33-an-hour pace,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''Nobody's giving money away. You accept the card. You go to work.'' He flexed his arms to punctuate his words. ''And then five, six, seven years, you making top dollar like some of our members have done. It can take you 10 years to get in the union, and you work on $10-an-hour jobs, $12-an-hour jobs, $15-an-hour jobs.''
 Mr. Rodriguez added: ''It's not going to happen in one day, one month, one year. Eventually, you will get to where you want to be.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 4 about efforts by minority workers to find jobs in construction referred incorrectly to the educational background of Lateef Legree, who was looking for work. Mr. Legree earned his G.E.D. while in prison; he is not an ex-felon without a high school diploma.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAN WITH A VAN -- Fifteen job sites were listed on the workers' handwritten itinerary for the day, from 156th Street in the Bronx south to ground zero.
DAWN SHIFT -- Workers gathered one day last month at their Bronx headquarters before trolling for construction jobs. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NO GO -- The United Hispanic workers got bad news -- no jobs -- at a site on East 189th Street in the Bronx, left, and then relaxed, above, after returning to their headquarters.
 FACE TIME -- ''We got to always come out to see what's going on,'' said Daryl Mackey, near left, with the foreman on a demolition job at 11th Avenue and 47th Street. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); CHRISTMAS (71%) Building (Construction); Day Laborers; Minorities (US); Hispanic-Americans; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (54%) United Hispanic Construction Workers (Orgn) 

PERSON: Johnny Dwyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



85 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Having It All Begins at Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn. 

 BODY:
WHEN Lucie Voves graduated from Dartmouth in 1986, she took a job at Procter & Gamble on the executive track. She started as an assistant brand manager for Metamucil, then graduated to brand manager, working her way up the ladder from Fixodent to Oil of Olay to Noxzema. ''I was on a very good track,'' she says. She left the house by 7 most mornings, often put in 60-hour weeks, flew 15 times a year for business and was always expected to wear suits with skirts in the office. ''One day I had an off-site seminar and I came in afterward in a pantsuit,'' she says. ''My boss's boss stopped me and says, 'What's this?' ''
 What it was, she realized, was a job she couldn't do if she wanted to have children and spend time with them. ''They would have been in day care 7 to 7,'' she says. So she left P. & G. and, relying on what her husband, Joe, earned working in his family's business, a nuts and bolts distributor, she started framing college diplomas in their basement in 1992. 
The idea had two roots: Ms. Voves and her husband had run a small company at Dartmouth selling campus photos and art; and, more important, as a Dartmouth alumna, she knew that most graduates couldn't read their diplomas. ''They're in Latin,'' Ms. Voves says. ''People look at it and say, 'Where does it say Dartmouth?' '' Who knew that ''Dartmvthensis'' was the place in Hanover, N.H., that costs parents $43,000 a year? 
 Her timing was good. The economy was on the cusp of a boom and Americans were about to develop consumer needs they didn't know they had -- like the need to have their diplomas expertly framed and matted (in any of 26 colors) with the college name gold-embossed (in English) for, on average, $129.99 (the price depending on options like whether you include your mortarboard tassel).
 In 1992, her company, Church Hill Classics, did $30,000 in diploma-framing sales from her basement; by 1998 she had moved into 5,000 square feet at an industrial park here and did $261,000. Today, she has expanded to 30,000 square feet and has 49 employees. Ms. Voves has contracts to frame diplomas at 700 colleges and academic associations (from the American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons to Harvard); frames 90,000 diplomas a year; and in 2006 did $5.2 million in sales.
 But that is not the true genius of what she has accomplished. In an age when so many work 24/7, she has built a business 15 minutes from home that pays as well as the Noxzema fast track but allows her to get her four children off to school (Joe, 12, on a 7:30 bus; Jordan, 10, and Lindsay, 8, at 8:20; and Jonathan, 4, dropped off at nursery school a block from her office, at 9).
 She is often home by 5:15 so the whole family can sit down to dinner; does her share in the car pools; and puts her four (plus the dog, cat, two hamsters and hermit crab) to bed. People see her with the kids and assume she is a stay-at-home mom. It has gone so well that her husband recently sold his share in his family's business to work with her.
 ''It's all scheduling and systems,'' she says. And harder than it looks. At 9:15 at night, when all is quiet, she sits with her laptop in the kitchen, finishing the day's business. ''I must have my e-mails totally caught up and cleaned out before I go to bed,'' she says.
 It is as much work and worry as the Noxzema life, but with infinitely more control. Technology helps create the illusion of a company president always in her office. An Internet phone system means that clients can call the company's main number and get switched to Ms. Voves's extension -- which may actually transfer to the laptop in her kitchen: ''I can take calls before I go off to the kids' concert.'' The laptop is programmed so the incoming phone number activates a pop-up that provides account information for whichever client is calling.
 The company Web site has a ''click for help'' customer service feature that connects to an operator on duty during the day. But at night and on weekends, a software system allows employees at home to answer those online queries from a laptop. Often, the overnight ''operator'' is the president, in her kitchen. ''It gives the illusion of a much bigger company,'' Ms. Voves says. For example, on Dec. 18, at 9:43 p.m., Kim from Livonia, Mich., sent an e-mail message saying she was worried that her Wayne State diploma would not arrive by Christmas. Within seconds, she got a response from ''Operator Lucie'' with the 18-digit U.P.S. tracking code.
 The kids know the routine. At 5:15, Ms. Voves hit the garage-door remote, and 4-year-old Jonathan started shouting, ''Mommy's home!''
 Usually the housekeeper heats up a meal Ms. Voves or her husband -- who is also very involved with the kids -- prepared the night before. Within minutes, the family is around the table eating lasagna and salad and talking about what happened to everyone at school.
 It was a lot: There was a toothbrush drive for poor children in Honduras, and Joe, the middle-schooler, got a 94.5 for the semester in English. Jordan had an essay due for the DARE program, and Lindsay had a homework sheet. Only Jonathan seemed not entirely purposeful, making ridiculous bathroom noises at his end of the table. ''If you don't finish your dinner, no cheesecake for you,'' said Ms. Voves.
 ''So,'' said Jonathan. 
 Dinner was done by 5:45, and Mom briefed everyone. She was driving Jordan and Lindsay to swimming at 6 and staying until they finished at 8, when she had to pick up Joe and his friends from wrestling. ''Everyone's got to hustle,'' she said. 
 They raced out to the Suburban, and Lindsay said, ''Mom, I need to get my towel.'' 
 ''Go get it.''
 On the way, Jordan said: ''Mom, guess what I got on my math chapter test. You have to guess real high.'' (She started at 90, but it was 100.) At the pool, Lindsay lost her goggles, which usually doesn't happen more than four or five times a night, and Ms. Voves found them on the locker-room floor. After swimming, Jordan and Lindsay hustled, so they got to wrestling only five minutes late.
 Jonathan was done making his noises and in bed by 8:30; Lindsay finished her homework sheet, had a slice of cheesecake and was down by 9, the two oldest by 9:30.
 Then Ms. Voves sat in the kitchen. She answered 45 e-mail messages, finished a blog entry on framing guidelines and wrote a letter for an employee who was having insurance problems. By 10:45 she was off-line, by 11 in bed. The next morning she was up at 5:30 putting chicken in a marinade for dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HER DAY -- From top, Lucie and Joe Voves get Jonathan ready in the morning with Lindsay nearby
Ms. Voves at a Chamber of Commerce board meeting
the couple at lunch
Ms. Voves at Church Hill Classics offices
 and with Jonathan at Jordan's swim meet. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%) Small Business; Families and Family Life

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Church Hill Classics (Co)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Michael Winerip; Lucie Voves; Joe Voves

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



86 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: 'The Nurse Practitioner Will See You Now'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

 BODY:
WHEN Melanie Klein needed a vaccination recently to attend community college, she had few affordable options. She is a German citizen working as a live-in nanny for a Westchester family and says she has only emergency health coverage.
 Including the physical examination she would need as a prelude to the shot, she said, ''I was told it would cost about $300.''
Then a friend told her about MinuteClinic, inside a CVS drugstore in Larchmont, N.Y. There the vaccination cost $65. (An exam is not required, according to a clinic employee.) When Ms. Klein, 27, developed a bladder infection about two weeks ago, she returned to MinuteClinic for an antibiotic. She made a third visit after developing side effects a few hours after starting the drug and got a new one.
 ''I went back at about 7:30 p.m. and she gave me a different medicine,'' Ms. Klein said. 
 MinuteClinic is one of several companies that recently started offering health care in more than two dozen of the region's drugstores and supermarkets. The clinics, which are staffed by nurse practitioners, say they are a low-cost answer for minor health problems for the uninsured, as well as for people who want after-hours or speedy care. Nurse practitioners, who are registered nurses with advanced training, can do many things that doctors do. 
 Treatment at retail health clinics is limited to about a dozen illnesses. Fees range from about $50 to $70 or are often covered after an insurance co-payment. The only drugs that can be prescribed are those like antibiotics, rash cream and cough syrup.
 People with more serious symptoms, like a high fever, are referred to an emergency room or an urgent care center, which also sees walk-in patients.
 Critics say that the clinics could undermine the importance of the doctor-patient relationships and that follow-up care will be lacking. And some insurers do not cover visits.
 The clinics' numbers are increasing. Nationwide there are about 300; the Convenient Care Association, a trade group, says it expects the number to double by the end of the year. 
 Ten MinuteClinics are open in New Jersey CVS stores, joining 13 in New York and Connecticut; the company wants to add more in the region.
 And this week, MiniMedCare of Chester, N.J., and Pathmark supermarkets will announce their entry into New Jersey, in Pathmark stores. One clinic will open in Weehawken in March, and 11 more are planned.
 ''We're physicians and we know how to deliver convenient care because we've been doing it at our three urgent care centers,'' said Dr. Lawrence Earl, who owns MiniMedCare with Dr. Roger DiRuggiero.
 Like other retailers who have welcomed the clinics, Pathmark hopes patients visiting for a sore throat may also pick up cough drops. 
 ''You have a convenient setting with flexible hours with hopefully some of the products you might need if you are sick,'' said Rich Savner, a Pathmark spokesman. 
 But Dr. Edward J. Volpintesta, a Connecticut family-practice physician for 30 years, called the clinics ''the ultimate commodification of health care.''
 To illustrate the dangers of losing the doctor-patient relationship, Dr. Volpintesta recalled a patient in his 70s who was normally healthy but called to complain of shortness of breath. Dr. Volpintesta, whose office is in Bethel, said he recommended an emergency room visit; it turned out the man had had a heart attack.
 That was an extreme case, Dr. Volpintesta said, but ''I knew for him to call up and say he didn't feel right, something was really wrong.'' 
 Furthermore, he said, it may be disconcerting for store patrons to run into a sick person at the checkout line. 
 AtlantiCare Health Services, based in Egg Harbor Township, N.J., said it hoped to avoid those concerns with its in-store HealthRite clinics because of its affiliation with 400 doctors in South Jersey. The first clinic opened in August in a ShopRite in Somers Point, and six more are planned by the end of the year. 
 ''We can refer to our member doctors for more serious conditions, and they can refer to us for the minor problems,'' said Don Parker, the president of AtlantiCare.
 New Jersey's largest health insurer, Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield, pays for visits only to AtlantiCare centers. Horizon is negotiating with other retail clinics but wants to see how HealthRite works before signing with others, said James Dell'Arena, director of Horizon's network operations.
 The Convenient Care Association argues that the clinics save insurers money, noting that an emergency-room visit for an ear infection costs about $300 while a clinic visit is no more than $70. And, the group said, 40 percent of its patients said they would have headed for the emergency room if not for the clinics.
 Still, Horizon is concerned. 
 ''It is a cost-effective setting, but we still don't know what the true impact will be,'' Mr. Dell'Arena said.
 MinuteClinic is an in-network provider for Aetna and Cigna HealthCare, but not New York's largest insurer, the HIP Health Plan. Cigna said it signed up because the clinics save money for the company, members and their employers. Members ''want flexible hours, convenience, quick and affordable access to a clinician and more choices in how they handle minor medical conditions,'' said Wendy Sherry, associate vice president for product development. She also said that MinuteClinic, like other operators, has a system to forward records to a patient's own doctor.
 Some insurers may be holding back because they worry that retail health clinics will increase costs when patients go to them more frequently, precisely because they are so convenient, said Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University. ''The insurers will do business with them once they get to know them better,'' Mr. Reinhardt said.
 A spokeswoman for the New York Medical Society, Lynda Adams, said that when the clinics first cropped up, the medical society was worried that insurers would pressure patients to go to the clinics instead of doctors because they were cheaper. The Medical Societies in New Jersey and Connecticut listed a lack of follow-up care as their main concern.
 Last June, the American Medical Association set nine guidelines for retail health clinics, including one saying patients should be urged to establish a relationship with a primary care doctor. The clinics operating in the area meet the A.M.A.'s standards.
 Even as the number of these clinics grows, many operators say they do not expect to make a profit for at least a year. On a recent Tuesday the Larchmont MinuteClinic served only two patients in 12 hours. 
 Pathmark is willing to give up valuable space until MiniMedCare turns a profit, in part because the clinic shares space with the pharmacy and does not take up much room, Mr. Savner said. And, like many clinics, MiniMedCare will pay rent.
 The future may bring an even larger role for retail clinics, said Richard Datz, the senior vice president for business development at CareClinic of Montvale, N.J. There are 8 CareClinics nationwide and 20 in the works, and the company is considering North Jersey for expansion.
 ''Look at how everyone is talking about universal health care,'' he said. ''Certainly these clinics could be part of the solution.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPEEDY -- Elizabeth Bella, top, at the MinuteClinic in the CVS in Chester, N.J., checks Peter Tringali
his mother, Marsha, looks on. The MinuteClinic fees in Larchmont, N.Y., where Stephen A. Ferrara and Annemarie McDermott work. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (94%); VACCINES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (75%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); CITIES (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); RETAILERS (64%) Medicine and Health; Drugstores; Supermarkets; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Nursing and Nurses; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Minuteclinics

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: Jennifer V Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%) Larchmont (NY); New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



87 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Parents To Be Teachers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I was delighted to read ''In Two Tongues, Trying to Close a Learning Gap'' (Jan. 28). Congratulations to Ossining Union Free School District for implementing the Little School. With school districts held accountable for all students meeting and exceeding federal standards, a widening achievement gap has appeared for students living in poverty and for whom English is a second language. 
Supporting parents as their child's first and most important teachers is too often overlooked and undervalued. Community programs that provide parents with the knowledge of how children learn will prevent future academic failure and costly special and remedial education. 
 The Parent Child Home Program, sponsored in several locales by Westchester Jewish Community Services, has been working to close this achievement gap since 1972. Using a research-proven home-visiting model, the program prepares children for school success by increasing language and literacy skills, enhancing social-emotional development and strengthening the parent-child relationship. Participants perform significantly better than their socio-economic peers and as well as or better than the overall population on school readiness measures in kindergarten and first grade. 
 Investing in quality early childhood programs really does make a positive difference in the everyday lives of children. Patrice D. Cuddy HartsdaleThe writer is director, Parent Child Home Program, Westchester Jewish Community Service.To the Editor:
 It is always amazing when educators, who should know better, try to invent a new wheel. Adding confusion in acquiring English acuity, preschoolers at the Little School alternate days between English and Spanish.
 I don't get it. 
 Consistency is key, and children entering an American public school should be ingrained in the acquisition of English, including idioms with which every language is replete. Aside from enabling children to succeed academically, it will enable them to get along with other English-speaking children, rather than isolate themselves with only Spanish-speaking youngsters.Lucille Guttman White Plains The writer is a school psychologist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%) Education and Schools; Reading and Writing Skills; Hispanic-Americans; Education (Pre-School)

PERSON: Patrice D Cuddy; Lucille Guttman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Ossining (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



88 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Affordable Homes And Fleeing Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your Jan. 21 editorial ''Connecticut's Diaspora'' correctly warned that Connecticut must create more homes for families and young professionals or face the real economic danger of workers leaving the state to finds homes they can afford. 
 Connecticut has suffered the nation's largest percentage exodus of 25- to 34-year-olds since 2000.
Businesses won't come or stay here if the skilled workers leave.
 However, I'd like to clarify the position of the Partnership for Strong Communities with regard to the current affordable housing law. 
 We agree that the law, for many reasons, hasn't produced enough affordable homes. 
 Nonetheless, it must remain in place as the state creates incentives to assist municipalities with the costs of new housing, making it easier for developers to profitably produce affordable homes and giving cities and towns control over the design and location of the housing. HOMEConnecticut, a broad-based coalition of leaders in Connecticut, is advocating for this solution. 
 As for concerns about the cost of such a program, research shows that the HOMEConnecticut proposal will produce more than $2 for every $1 the state invests in affordable homes, providing lots of revenue for special education and many other needs. 
 We think it's a winner for everyone.Diane Randall Director, Partnership for Strong Communities Hartford 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Housing; Labor; Editorials

PERSON: Diane Randall

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



89 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Little-Known Sales Tax Benefits White Plains

BYLINE: By ERIN DUGGAN

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
WHEN Diane Arco of Chappaqua wanted to stock up on Clinique beauty products last week, she headed to Bloomingdale's. She picked up a moisturizer and tucked the receipt in her small brown bag without looking at it. 
 If she had, she would have noticed that, like thousands of other shoppers who come to White Plains each day, she routinely pays more than the 7.375 percent sales tax required on purchases in the county.
The reason is that every two years since 1993, the City of White Plains has renewed an additional one-half of 1 percent sales tax on items sold within city limits, and a bill is now pending in the State Legislature to extend the tax for two more years. 
 What's a half percent worth? On Ms. Arco's $38.50 purchase, it was about 19 cents of the $3.03 she paid in sales tax. But the extra tax adds about $10 million a year to the city's general fund, according to the commissioner of finance, Gina Harwood. ''It's a very big deal,'' she said. 
 The additional tax benefited White Plains even more last year. Shoppers paid $1.1 million more in sales tax in September, October and November than they did in the same period the year before, Ms. Harwood said. In those three months -- the latest that figures were available -- sales tax revenues were up 10 percent from 2005, which puts the city ahead of its projections for the fiscal year, which ends June 30.
 The revenue helps pay for the increased costs White Plains incurs to handle the influx of workers and shoppers, said Assemblyman Adam T. Bradley, who introduced the bill to extend the tax in the Assembly.
 ''To me, this is a no-brainer issue,'' he said. ''You have to find a way to pay for the increased services that are necessary because of the extreme increase in the daytime population of the city.''
 Mr. Bradley, a Democrat who represents most of White Plains and much of northeastern Westchester, says the city, which has a residential population of 56,000, grows to more than 250,000 during the day. The extra sales tax, he said, covers the cost of the strains on the city's infrastructure -- like increased traffic and water use, and police, fire, sanitation and other municipal services -- without raising property taxes.
 But State Senator Suzi Oppenheimer, a Democrat from Mamaroneck who introduced the sales-tax extension in the Senate last month, said there was no push to make the tax permanent. ''It's important to review these things -- to review the tax and what the cost of it is to the community, and what the advantage is to the community,'' she said.
 Marsha Gordon, president of the Business Council of Westchester, said the extra tax certainly had not deterred shoppers. ''Given the multitude of shopping opportunities in White Plains, and the strong economy that we're experiencing, the continuation of a sales tax would have a negligible impact on retail sales,'' she said. 
 Ms. Arco, leaving Bloomingdale's on Tuesday morning, said, ''I'm so used to taxes, I guess I didn't bat an eyelash.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: PRICE CHECK? -- At Neiman Marcus in the Westchester Mall. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); CITIES (70%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Adam (Assemblyman) Bradley; Erin Duggan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State; White Plains (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



90 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Having It All Begins at Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn. 

 BODY:
WHEN Lucie Voves graduated from Dartmouth in 1986, she took a job at Procter & Gamble on the executive track. She started as an assistant brand manager for Metamucil, then graduated to brand manager, working her way up the ladder from Fixodent to Oil of Olay to Noxzema. ''I was on a very good track,'' she says. She left the house by 7 most mornings, often put in 60-hour weeks, flew 15 times a year for business and was always expected to wear suits with skirts in the office. ''One day I had an off-site seminar and I came in afterward in a pantsuit,'' she says. ''My boss's boss stopped me and says, 'What's this?' ''
 What it was, she realized, was a job she couldn't do if she wanted to have children and spend time with them. ''They would have been in day care 7 to 7,'' she says. So she left P. & G. and, relying on what her husband, Joe, earned working in his family's business, a nuts and bolts distributor, she started framing college diplomas in their basement in 1992. 
The idea had two roots: Ms. Voves and her husband had run a small company at Dartmouth selling campus photos and art; and, more important, as a Dartmouth alumna, she knew that most graduates couldn't read their diplomas. ''They're in Latin,'' Ms. Voves says. ''People look at it and say, 'Where does it say Dartmouth?' '' Who knew that ''Dartmvthensis'' was the place in Hanover, N.H., that costs parents $43,000 a year? 
 Her timing was good. The economy was on the cusp of a boom and Americans were about to develop consumer needs they didn't know they had -- like the need to have their diplomas expertly framed and matted (in any of 26 colors) with the college name gold-embossed (in English) for, on average, $129.99 (the price depending on options like whether you include your mortarboard tassel).
 In 1992, her company, Church Hill Classics, did $30,000 in diploma-framing sales from her basement; by 1998 she had moved into 5,000 square feet at an industrial park here and did $261,000. Today, she has expanded to 30,000 square feet and has 49 employees. Ms. Voves has contracts to frame diplomas at 700 colleges and academic associations (from the American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons to Harvard); frames 90,000 diplomas a year; and in 2006 did $5.2 million in sales.
 But that is not the true genius of what she has accomplished. In an age when so many work 24/7, she has built a business 15 minutes from home that pays as well as the Noxzema fast track but allows her to get her four children off to school (Joe, 12, on a 7:30 bus; Jordan, 10, and Lindsay, 8, at 8:20; and Jonathan, 4, dropped off at nursery school a block from her office, at 9).
 She is often home by 5:15 so the whole family can sit down to dinner; does her share in the car pools; and puts her four (plus the dog, cat, two hamsters and hermit crab) to bed. People see her with the kids and assume she is a stay-at-home mom. It has gone so well that her husband recently sold his share in his family's business to work with her.
 ''It's all scheduling and systems,'' she says. And harder than it looks. At 9:15 at night, when all is quiet, she sits with her laptop in the kitchen, finishing the day's business. ''I must have my e-mails totally caught up and cleaned out before I go to bed,'' she says.
 It is as much work and worry as the Noxzema life, but with infinitely more control. Technology helps create the illusion of a company president always in her office. An Internet phone system means that clients can call the company's main number and get switched to Ms. Voves's extension -- which may actually transfer to the laptop in her kitchen: ''I can take calls before I go off to the kids' concert.'' The laptop is programmed so the incoming phone number activates a pop-up that provides account information for whichever client is calling.
 The company Web site has a ''click for help'' customer service feature that connects to an operator on duty during the day. But at night and on weekends, a software system allows employees at home to answer those online queries from a laptop. Often, the overnight ''operator'' is the president, in her kitchen. ''It gives the illusion of a much bigger company,'' Ms. Voves says. For example, on Dec. 18, at 9:43 p.m., Kim from Livonia, Mich., sent an e-mail message saying she was worried that her Wayne State diploma would not arrive by Christmas. Within seconds, she got a response from ''Operator Lucie'' with the 18-digit U.P.S. tracking code.
 The kids know the routine. At 5:15, Ms. Voves hit the garage-door remote, and 4-year-old Jonathan started shouting, ''Mommy's home!''
 Usually the housekeeper heats up a meal Ms. Voves or her husband -- who is also very involved with the kids -- prepared the night before. Within minutes, the family is around the table eating lasagna and salad and talking about what happened to everyone at school.
 It was a lot: There was a toothbrush drive for poor children in Honduras, and Joe, the middle-schooler, got a 94.5 for the semester in English. Jordan had an essay due for the DARE program, and Lindsay had a homework sheet. Only Jonathan seemed not entirely purposeful, making ridiculous bathroom noises at his end of the table. ''If you don't finish your dinner, no cheesecake for you,'' said Ms. Voves.
 ''So,'' said Jonathan. 
 Dinner was done by 5:45, and Mom briefed everyone. She was driving Jordan and Lindsay to swimming at 6 and staying until they finished at 8, when she had to pick up Joe and his friends from wrestling. ''Everyone's got to hustle,'' she said. 
 They raced out to the Suburban, and Lindsay said, ''Mom, I need to get my towel.'' 
 ''Go get it.''
 On the way, Jordan said: ''Mom, guess what I got on my math chapter test. You have to guess real high.'' (She started at 90, but it was 100.) At the pool, Lindsay lost her goggles, which usually doesn't happen more than four or five times a night, and Ms. Voves found them on the locker-room floor. After swimming, Jordan and Lindsay hustled, so they got to wrestling only five minutes late.
 Jonathan was done making his noises and in bed by 8:30; Lindsay finished her homework sheet, had a slice of cheesecake and was down by 9, the two oldest by 9:30.
 Then Ms. Voves sat in the kitchen. She answered 45 e-mail messages, finished a blog entry on framing guidelines and wrote a letter for an employee who was having insurance problems. By 10:45 she was off-line, by 11 in bed. The next morning she was up at 5:30 putting chicken in a marinade for dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HER DAY -- From top, Lucie and Joe Voves get Jonathan ready in the morning with Lindsay nearby
Ms. Voves at a Chamber of Commerce board meeting
the couple at lunch
Ms. Voves at Church Hill Classics offices
 and with Jonathan at Jordan's swim meet. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%) Small Business; Families and Family Life

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Church Hill Classics (Co)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Michael Winerip; Lucie Voves; Joe Voves

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



91 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: 'The Nurse Practitioner Will See You Now'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

 BODY:
WHEN Melanie Klein needed a vaccination recently to attend community college, she had few affordable options. She is a German citizen working as a live-in nanny for a Westchester family and says she has only emergency health coverage.
 Including the physical examination she would need as a prelude to the shot, she said, ''I was told it would cost about $300.''
Then a friend told her about MinuteClinic, inside a CVS drugstore in Larchmont, N.Y. There the vaccination cost $65. (An exam is not required, according to a clinic employee.) When Ms. Klein, 27, developed a bladder infection about two weeks ago, she returned to MinuteClinic for an antibiotic. She made a third visit after developing side effects a few hours after starting the drug and got a new one.
 ''I went back at about 7:30 p.m. and she gave me a different medicine,'' Ms. Klein said. 
 MinuteClinic is one of several companies that recently started offering health care in more than two dozen of the region's drugstores and supermarkets. The clinics, which are staffed by nurse practitioners, say they are a low-cost answer for minor health problems for the uninsured, as well as for people who want after-hours or speedy care. Nurse practitioners, who are registered nurses with advanced training, can do many things that doctors do. 
 Treatment at retail health clinics is limited to about a dozen illnesses. Fees range from about $50 to $70 or are often covered after an insurance co-payment. The only drugs that can be prescribed are those like antibiotics, rash cream and cough syrup.
 People with more serious symptoms, like a high fever, are referred to an emergency room or an urgent care center, which also sees walk-in patients.
 Critics say that the clinics could undermine the importance of the doctor-patient relationships and that follow-up care will be lacking. And some insurers do not cover visits.
 The clinics' numbers are increasing. Nationwide there are about 300; the Convenient Care Association, a trade group, says it expects the number to double by the end of the year. 
 Ten MinuteClinics are open in New Jersey CVS stores, joining 13 in New York and Connecticut; the company wants to add more in the region.
 And this week, MiniMedCare of Chester, N.J., and Pathmark supermarkets will announce their entry into New Jersey, in Pathmark stores. One clinic will open in Weehawken in March, and 11 more are planned.
 ''We're physicians and we know how to deliver convenient care because we've been doing it at our three urgent care centers,'' said Dr. Lawrence Earl, who owns MiniMedCare with Dr. Roger DiRuggiero.
 Like other retailers who have welcomed the clinics, Pathmark hopes patients visiting for a sore throat may also pick up cough drops. 
 ''You have a convenient setting with flexible hours with hopefully some of the products you might need if you are sick,'' said Rich Savner, a Pathmark spokesman. 
 But Dr. Edward J. Volpintesta, a Connecticut family-practice physician for 30 years, called the clinics ''the ultimate commodification of health care.''
 To illustrate the dangers of losing the doctor-patient relationship, Dr. Volpintesta recalled a patient in his 70s who was normally healthy but called to complain of shortness of breath. Dr. Volpintesta, whose office is in Bethel, said he recommended an emergency room visit; it turned out the man had had a heart attack.
 That was an extreme case, Dr. Volpintesta said, but ''I knew for him to call up and say he didn't feel right, something was really wrong.'' 
 Furthermore, he said, it may be disconcerting for store patrons to run into a sick person at the checkout line. 
 AtlantiCare Health Services, based in Egg Harbor Township, N.J., said it hoped to avoid those concerns with its in-store HealthRite clinics because of its affiliation with 400 doctors in South Jersey. The first clinic opened in August in a ShopRite in Somers Point, and six more are planned by the end of the year. 
 ''We can refer to our member doctors for more serious conditions, and they can refer to us for the minor problems,'' said Don Parker, the president of AtlantiCare.
 New Jersey's largest health insurer, Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield, pays for visits only to AtlantiCare centers. Horizon is negotiating with other retail clinics but wants to see how HealthRite works before signing with others, said James Dell'Arena, director of Horizon's network operations.
 The Convenient Care Association argues that the clinics save insurers money, noting that an emergency-room visit for an ear infection costs about $300 while a clinic visit is no more than $70. And, the group said, 40 percent of its patients said they would have headed for the emergency room if not for the clinics.
 Still, Horizon is concerned. 
 ''It is a cost-effective setting, but we still don't know what the true impact will be,'' Mr. Dell'Arena said.
 MinuteClinic is an in-network provider for Aetna and Cigna HealthCare, but not New York's largest insurer, the HIP Health Plan. Cigna said it signed up because the clinics save money for the company, members and their employers. Members ''want flexible hours, convenience, quick and affordable access to a clinician and more choices in how they handle minor medical conditions,'' said Wendy Sherry, associate vice president for product development. She also said that MinuteClinic, like other operators, has a system to forward records to a patient's own doctor.
 Some insurers may be holding back because they worry that retail health clinics will increase costs when patients go to them more frequently, precisely because they are so convenient, said Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University. ''The insurers will do business with them once they get to know them better,'' Mr. Reinhardt said.
 A spokeswoman for the New York Medical Society, Lynda Adams, said that when the clinics first cropped up, the medical society was worried that insurers would pressure patients to go to the clinics instead of doctors because they were cheaper. The Medical Societies in New Jersey and Connecticut listed a lack of follow-up care as their main concern.
 Last June, the American Medical Association set nine guidelines for retail health clinics, including one saying patients should be urged to establish a relationship with a primary care doctor. The clinics operating in the area meet the A.M.A.'s standards.
 Even as the number of these clinics grows, many operators say they do not expect to make a profit for at least a year. On a recent Tuesday the Larchmont MinuteClinic served only two patients in 12 hours. 
 Pathmark is willing to give up valuable space until MiniMedCare turns a profit, in part because the clinic shares space with the pharmacy and does not take up much room, Mr. Savner said. And, like many clinics, MiniMedCare will pay rent.
 The future may bring an even larger role for retail clinics, said Richard Datz, the senior vice president for business development at CareClinic of Montvale, N.J. There are 8 CareClinics nationwide and 20 in the works, and the company is considering North Jersey for expansion.
 ''Look at how everyone is talking about universal health care,'' he said. ''Certainly these clinics could be part of the solution.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPEEDY -- Elizabeth Bella, top, at the MinuteClinic in the CVS in Chester, N.J., checks Peter Tringali
his mother, Marsha, looks on. The MinuteClinic fees in Larchmont, N.Y., where Stephen A. Ferrara and Annemarie McDermott work. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (94%); VACCINES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (75%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); CITIES (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); RETAILERS (64%) Medicine and Health; Drugstores; Supermarkets; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Nursing and Nurses; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Minuteclinics

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: Jennifer V Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%) Larchmont (NY); New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



92 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Having It All Begins at Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn. 

 BODY:
WHEN Lucie Voves graduated from Dartmouth in 1986, she took a job at Procter & Gamble on the executive track. She started as an assistant brand manager for Metamucil, then graduated to brand manager, working her way up the ladder from Fixodent to Oil of Olay to Noxzema. ''I was on a very good track,'' she says. She left the house by 7 most mornings, often put in 60-hour weeks, flew 15 times a year for business and was always expected to wear suits with skirts in the office. ''One day I had an off-site seminar and I came in afterward in a pantsuit,'' she says. ''My boss's boss stopped me and says, 'What's this?' ''
 What it was, she realized, was a job she couldn't do if she wanted to have children and spend time with them. ''They would have been in day care 7 to 7,'' she says. So she left P. & G. and, relying on what her husband, Joe, earned working in his family's business, a nuts and bolts distributor, she started framing college diplomas in their basement in 1992. 
The idea had two roots: Ms. Voves and her husband had run a small company at Dartmouth selling campus photos and art; and, more important, as a Dartmouth alumna, she knew that most graduates couldn't read their diplomas. ''They're in Latin,'' Ms. Voves says. ''People look at it and say, 'Where does it say Dartmouth?' '' Who knew that ''Dartmvthensis'' was the place in Hanover, N.H., that costs parents $43,000 a year? 
 Her timing was good. The economy was on the cusp of a boom and Americans were about to develop consumer needs they didn't know they had -- like the need to have their diplomas expertly framed and matted (in any of 26 colors) with the college name gold-embossed (in English) for, on average, $129.99 (the price depending on options like whether you include your mortarboard tassel).
 In 1992, her company, Church Hill Classics, did $30,000 in diploma-framing sales from her basement; by 1998 she had moved into 5,000 square feet at an industrial park here and did $261,000. Today, she has expanded to 30,000 square feet and has 49 employees. Ms. Voves has contracts to frame diplomas at 700 colleges and academic associations (from the American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons to Harvard); frames 90,000 diplomas a year; and in 2006 did $5.2 million in sales.
 But that is not the true genius of what she has accomplished. In an age when so many work 24/7, she has built a business 15 minutes from home that pays as well as the Noxzema fast track but allows her to get her four children off to school (Joe, 12, on a 7:30 bus; Jordan, 10, and Lindsay, 8, at 8:20; and Jonathan, 4, dropped off at nursery school a block from her office, at 9).
 She is often home by 5:15 so the whole family can sit down to dinner; does her share in the car pools; and puts her four (plus the dog, cat, two hamsters and hermit crab) to bed. People see her with the kids and assume she is a stay-at-home mom. It has gone so well that her husband recently sold his share in his family's business to work with her.
 ''It's all scheduling and systems,'' she says. And harder than it looks. At 9:15 at night, when all is quiet, she sits with her laptop in the kitchen, finishing the day's business. ''I must have my e-mails totally caught up and cleaned out before I go to bed,'' she says.
 It is as much work and worry as the Noxzema life, but with infinitely more control. Technology helps create the illusion of a company president always in her office. An Internet phone system means that clients can call the company's main number and get switched to Ms. Voves's extension -- which may actually transfer to the laptop in her kitchen: ''I can take calls before I go off to the kids' concert.'' The laptop is programmed so the incoming phone number activates a pop-up that provides account information for whichever client is calling.
 The company Web site has a ''click for help'' customer service feature that connects to an operator on duty during the day. But at night and on weekends, a software system allows employees at home to answer those online queries from a laptop. Often, the overnight ''operator'' is the president, in her kitchen. ''It gives the illusion of a much bigger company,'' Ms. Voves says. For example, on Dec. 18, at 9:43 p.m., Kim from Livonia, Mich., sent an e-mail message saying she was worried that her Wayne State diploma would not arrive by Christmas. Within seconds, she got a response from ''Operator Lucie'' with the 18-digit U.P.S. tracking code.
 The kids know the routine. At 5:15, Ms. Voves hit the garage-door remote, and 4-year-old Jonathan started shouting, ''Mommy's home!''
 Usually the housekeeper heats up a meal Ms. Voves or her husband -- who is also very involved with the kids -- prepared the night before. Within minutes, the family is around the table eating lasagna and salad and talking about what happened to everyone at school.
 It was a lot: There was a toothbrush drive for poor children in Honduras, and Joe, the middle-schooler, got a 94.5 for the semester in English. Jordan had an essay due for the DARE program, and Lindsay had a homework sheet. Only Jonathan seemed not entirely purposeful, making ridiculous bathroom noises at his end of the table. ''If you don't finish your dinner, no cheesecake for you,'' said Ms. Voves.
 ''So,'' said Jonathan. 
 Dinner was done by 5:45, and Mom briefed everyone. She was driving Jordan and Lindsay to swimming at 6 and staying until they finished at 8, when she had to pick up Joe and his friends from wrestling. ''Everyone's got to hustle,'' she said. 
 They raced out to the Suburban, and Lindsay said, ''Mom, I need to get my towel.'' 
 ''Go get it.''
 On the way, Jordan said: ''Mom, guess what I got on my math chapter test. You have to guess real high.'' (She started at 90, but it was 100.) At the pool, Lindsay lost her goggles, which usually doesn't happen more than four or five times a night, and Ms. Voves found them on the locker-room floor. After swimming, Jordan and Lindsay hustled, so they got to wrestling only five minutes late.
 Jonathan was done making his noises and in bed by 8:30; Lindsay finished her homework sheet, had a slice of cheesecake and was down by 9, the two oldest by 9:30.
 Then Ms. Voves sat in the kitchen. She answered 45 e-mail messages, finished a blog entry on framing guidelines and wrote a letter for an employee who was having insurance problems. By 10:45 she was off-line, by 11 in bed. The next morning she was up at 5:30 putting chicken in a marinade for dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HER DAY -- From top, Lucie and Joe Voves get Jonathan ready in the morning with Lindsay nearby
Ms. Voves at a Chamber of Commerce board meeting
the couple at lunch
Ms. Voves at Church Hill Classics offices
 and with Jonathan at Jordan's swim meet. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%) Small Business; Families and Family Life

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Church Hill Classics (Co)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Michael Winerip; Lucie Voves; Joe Voves

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



93 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Having It All Begins at Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn. 

 BODY:
WHEN Lucie Voves graduated from Dartmouth in 1986, she took a job at Procter & Gamble on the executive track. She started as an assistant brand manager for Metamucil, then graduated to brand manager, working her way up the ladder from Fixodent to Oil of Olay to Noxzema. ''I was on a very good track,'' she says. She left the house by 7 most mornings, often put in 60-hour weeks, flew 15 times a year for business and was always expected to wear suits with skirts in the office. ''One day I had an off-site seminar and I came in afterward in a pantsuit,'' she says. ''My boss's boss stopped me and says, 'What's this?' ''
 What it was, she realized, was a job she couldn't do if she wanted to have children and spend time with them. ''They would have been in day care 7 to 7,'' she says. So she left P. & G. and, relying on what her husband, Joe, earned working in his family's business, a nuts and bolts distributor, she started framing college diplomas in their basement in 1992. 
The idea had two roots: Ms. Voves and her husband had run a small company at Dartmouth selling campus photos and art; and, more important, as a Dartmouth alumna, she knew that most graduates couldn't read their diplomas. ''They're in Latin,'' Ms. Voves says. ''People look at it and say, 'Where does it say Dartmouth?' '' Who knew that ''Dartmvthensis'' was the place in Hanover, N.H., that costs parents $43,000 a year? 
 Her timing was good. The economy was on the cusp of a boom and Americans were about to develop consumer needs they didn't know they had -- like the need to have their diplomas expertly framed and matted (in any of 26 colors) with the college name gold-embossed (in English) for, on average, $129.99 (the price depending on options like whether you include your mortarboard tassel).
 In 1992, her company, Church Hill Classics, did $30,000 in diploma-framing sales from her basement; by 1998 she had moved into 5,000 square feet at an industrial park here and did $261,000. Today, she has expanded to 30,000 square feet and has 49 employees. Ms. Voves has contracts to frame diplomas at 700 colleges and academic associations (from the American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons to Harvard); frames 90,000 diplomas a year; and in 2006 did $5.2 million in sales.
 But that is not the true genius of what she has accomplished. In an age when so many work 24/7, she has built a business 15 minutes from home that pays as well as the Noxzema fast track but allows her to get her four children off to school (Joe, 12, on a 7:30 bus; Jordan, 10, and Lindsay, 8, at 8:20; and Jonathan, 4, dropped off at nursery school a block from her office, at 9).
 She is often home by 5:15 so the whole family can sit down to dinner; does her share in the car pools; and puts her four (plus the dog, cat, two hamsters and hermit crab) to bed. People see her with the kids and assume she is a stay-at-home mom. It has gone so well that her husband recently sold his share in his family's business to work with her.
 ''It's all scheduling and systems,'' she says. And harder than it looks. At 9:15 at night, when all is quiet, she sits with her laptop in the kitchen, finishing the day's business. ''I must have my e-mails totally caught up and cleaned out before I go to bed,'' she says.
 It is as much work and worry as the Noxzema life, but with infinitely more control. Technology helps create the illusion of a company president always in her office. An Internet phone system means that clients can call the company's main number and get switched to Ms. Voves's extension -- which may actually transfer to the laptop in her kitchen: ''I can take calls before I go off to the kids' concert.'' The laptop is programmed so the incoming phone number activates a pop-up that provides account information for whichever client is calling.
 The company Web site has a ''click for help'' customer service feature that connects to an operator on duty during the day. But at night and on weekends, a software system allows employees at home to answer those online queries from a laptop. Often, the overnight ''operator'' is the president, in her kitchen. ''It gives the illusion of a much bigger company,'' Ms. Voves says. For example, on Dec. 18, at 9:43 p.m., Kim from Livonia, Mich., sent an e-mail message saying she was worried that her Wayne State diploma would not arrive by Christmas. Within seconds, she got a response from ''Operator Lucie'' with the 18-digit U.P.S. tracking code.
 The kids know the routine. At 5:15, Ms. Voves hit the garage-door remote, and 4-year-old Jonathan started shouting, ''Mommy's home!''
 Usually the housekeeper heats up a meal Ms. Voves or her husband -- who is also very involved with the kids -- prepared the night before. Within minutes, the family is around the table eating lasagna and salad and talking about what happened to everyone at school.
 It was a lot: There was a toothbrush drive for poor children in Honduras, and Joe, the middle-schooler, got a 94.5 for the semester in English. Jordan had an essay due for the DARE program, and Lindsay had a homework sheet. Only Jonathan seemed not entirely purposeful, making ridiculous bathroom noises at his end of the table. ''If you don't finish your dinner, no cheesecake for you,'' said Ms. Voves.
 ''So,'' said Jonathan. 
 Dinner was done by 5:45, and Mom briefed everyone. She was driving Jordan and Lindsay to swimming at 6 and staying until they finished at 8, when she had to pick up Joe and his friends from wrestling. ''Everyone's got to hustle,'' she said. 
 They raced out to the Suburban, and Lindsay said, ''Mom, I need to get my towel.'' 
 ''Go get it.''
 On the way, Jordan said: ''Mom, guess what I got on my math chapter test. You have to guess real high.'' (She started at 90, but it was 100.) At the pool, Lindsay lost her goggles, which usually doesn't happen more than four or five times a night, and Ms. Voves found them on the locker-room floor. After swimming, Jordan and Lindsay hustled, so they got to wrestling only five minutes late.
 Jonathan was done making his noises and in bed by 8:30; Lindsay finished her homework sheet, had a slice of cheesecake and was down by 9, the two oldest by 9:30.
 Then Ms. Voves sat in the kitchen. She answered 45 e-mail messages, finished a blog entry on framing guidelines and wrote a letter for an employee who was having insurance problems. By 10:45 she was off-line, by 11 in bed. The next morning she was up at 5:30 putting chicken in a marinade for dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HER DAY -- From top, Lucie and Joe Voves get Jonathan ready in the morning with Lindsay nearby
Ms. Voves at a Chamber of Commerce board meeting
the couple at lunch
Ms. Voves at Church Hill Classics offices
 and with Jonathan at Jordan's swim meet. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%) Small Business; Families and Family Life

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Church Hill Classics (Co)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Michael Winerip; Lucie Voves; Joe Voves

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



94 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: 'The Nurse Practitioner Will See You Now'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

 BODY:
WHEN Melanie Klein needed a vaccination recently to attend community college, she had few affordable options. She is a German citizen working as a live-in nanny for a Westchester family and says she has only emergency health coverage.
 Including the physical examination she would need as a prelude to the shot, she said, ''I was told it would cost about $300.''
Then a friend told her about MinuteClinic, inside a CVS drugstore in Larchmont, N.Y. There the vaccination cost $65. (An exam is not required, according to a clinic employee.) When Ms. Klein, 27, developed a bladder infection about two weeks ago, she returned to MinuteClinic for an antibiotic. She made a third visit after developing side effects a few hours after starting the drug and got a new one.
 ''I went back at about 7:30 p.m. and she gave me a different medicine,'' Ms. Klein said. 
 MinuteClinic is one of several companies that recently started offering health care in more than two dozen of the region's drugstores and supermarkets. The clinics, which are staffed by nurse practitioners, say they are a low-cost answer for minor health problems for the uninsured, as well as for people who want after-hours or speedy care. Nurse practitioners, who are registered nurses with advanced training, can do many things that doctors do. 
 Treatment at retail health clinics is limited to about a dozen illnesses. Fees range from about $50 to $70 or are often covered after an insurance co-payment. The only drugs that can be prescribed are those like antibiotics, rash cream and cough syrup.
 People with more serious symptoms, like a high fever, are referred to an emergency room or an urgent care center, which also sees walk-in patients.
 Critics say that the clinics could undermine the importance of the doctor-patient relationships and that follow-up care will be lacking. And some insurers do not cover visits.
 The clinics' numbers are increasing. Nationwide there are about 300; the Convenient Care Association, a trade group, says it expects the number to double by the end of the year. 
 Ten MinuteClinics are open in New Jersey CVS stores, joining 13 in New York and Connecticut; the company wants to add more in the region.
 And this week, MiniMedCare of Chester, N.J., and Pathmark supermarkets will announce their entry into New Jersey, in Pathmark stores. One clinic will open in Weehawken in March, and 11 more are planned.
 ''We're physicians and we know how to deliver convenient care because we've been doing it at our three urgent care centers,'' said Dr. Lawrence Earl, who owns MiniMedCare with Dr. Roger DiRuggiero.
 Like other retailers who have welcomed the clinics, Pathmark hopes patients visiting for a sore throat may also pick up cough drops. 
 ''You have a convenient setting with flexible hours with hopefully some of the products you might need if you are sick,'' said Rich Savner, a Pathmark spokesman. 
 But Dr. Edward J. Volpintesta, a Connecticut family-practice physician for 30 years, called the clinics ''the ultimate commodification of health care.''
 To illustrate the dangers of losing the doctor-patient relationship, Dr. Volpintesta recalled a patient in his 70s who was normally healthy but called to complain of shortness of breath. Dr. Volpintesta, whose office is in Bethel, said he recommended an emergency room visit; it turned out the man had had a heart attack.
 That was an extreme case, Dr. Volpintesta said, but ''I knew for him to call up and say he didn't feel right, something was really wrong.'' 
 Furthermore, he said, it may be disconcerting for store patrons to run into a sick person at the checkout line. 
 AtlantiCare Health Services, based in Egg Harbor Township, N.J., said it hoped to avoid those concerns with its in-store HealthRite clinics because of its affiliation with 400 doctors in South Jersey. The first clinic opened in August in a ShopRite in Somers Point, and six more are planned by the end of the year. 
 ''We can refer to our member doctors for more serious conditions, and they can refer to us for the minor problems,'' said Don Parker, the president of AtlantiCare.
 New Jersey's largest health insurer, Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield, pays for visits only to AtlantiCare centers. Horizon is negotiating with other retail clinics but wants to see how HealthRite works before signing with others, said James Dell'Arena, director of Horizon's network operations.
 The Convenient Care Association argues that the clinics save insurers money, noting that an emergency-room visit for an ear infection costs about $300 while a clinic visit is no more than $70. And, the group said, 40 percent of its patients said they would have headed for the emergency room if not for the clinics.
 Still, Horizon is concerned. 
 ''It is a cost-effective setting, but we still don't know what the true impact will be,'' Mr. Dell'Arena said.
 MinuteClinic is an in-network provider for Aetna and Cigna HealthCare, but not New York's largest insurer, the HIP Health Plan. Cigna said it signed up because the clinics save money for the company, members and their employers. Members ''want flexible hours, convenience, quick and affordable access to a clinician and more choices in how they handle minor medical conditions,'' said Wendy Sherry, associate vice president for product development. She also said that MinuteClinic, like other operators, has a system to forward records to a patient's own doctor.
 Some insurers may be holding back because they worry that retail health clinics will increase costs when patients go to them more frequently, precisely because they are so convenient, said Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University. ''The insurers will do business with them once they get to know them better,'' Mr. Reinhardt said.
 A spokeswoman for the New York Medical Society, Lynda Adams, said that when the clinics first cropped up, the medical society was worried that insurers would pressure patients to go to the clinics instead of doctors because they were cheaper. The Medical Societies in New Jersey and Connecticut listed a lack of follow-up care as their main concern.
 Last June, the American Medical Association set nine guidelines for retail health clinics, including one saying patients should be urged to establish a relationship with a primary care doctor. The clinics operating in the area meet the A.M.A.'s standards.
 Even as the number of these clinics grows, many operators say they do not expect to make a profit for at least a year. On a recent Tuesday the Larchmont MinuteClinic served only two patients in 12 hours. 
 Pathmark is willing to give up valuable space until MiniMedCare turns a profit, in part because the clinic shares space with the pharmacy and does not take up much room, Mr. Savner said. And, like many clinics, MiniMedCare will pay rent.
 The future may bring an even larger role for retail clinics, said Richard Datz, the senior vice president for business development at CareClinic of Montvale, N.J. There are 8 CareClinics nationwide and 20 in the works, and the company is considering North Jersey for expansion.
 ''Look at how everyone is talking about universal health care,'' he said. ''Certainly these clinics could be part of the solution.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPEEDY -- Elizabeth Bella, top, at the MinuteClinic in the CVS in Chester, N.J., checks Peter Tringali
 his mother, Marsha, looks on. The MinuteClinic fees in Larchmont, N.Y., where Stephen A. Ferrara and Annemarie McDermott work. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (94%); VACCINES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (75%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); CITIES (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); RETAILERS (64%) Medicine and Health; Drugstores; Supermarkets; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Nursing and Nurses; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Minuteclinics

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: Jennifer V Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%) Larchmont (NY); New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



95 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: 'The Nurse Practitioner Will See You Now'

BYLINE: By JENNIFER V. HUGHES

 BODY:
WHEN Melanie Klein needed a vaccination recently to attend community college, she had few affordable options. She is a German citizen working as a live-in nanny for a Westchester family and says she has only emergency health coverage.
 Including the physical examination she would need as a prelude to the shot, she said, ''I was told it would cost about $300.''
Then a friend told her about MinuteClinic, inside a CVS drugstore in Larchmont, N.Y. There the vaccination cost $65. (An exam is not required, according to a clinic employee.) When Ms. Klein, 27, developed a bladder infection about two weeks ago, she returned to MinuteClinic for an antibiotic. She made a third visit after developing side effects a few hours after starting the drug and got a new one.
 ''I went back at about 7:30 p.m. and she gave me a different medicine,'' Ms. Klein said. 
 MinuteClinic is one of several companies that recently started offering health care in more than two dozen of the region's drugstores and supermarkets. The clinics, which are staffed by nurse practitioners, say they are a low-cost answer for minor health problems for the uninsured, as well as for people who want after-hours or speedy care. Nurse practitioners, who are registered nurses with advanced training, can do many things that doctors do. 
 Treatment at retail health clinics is limited to about a dozen illnesses. Fees range from about $50 to $70 or are often covered after an insurance co-payment. The only drugs that can be prescribed are those like antibiotics, rash cream and cough syrup.
 People with more serious symptoms, like a high fever, are referred to an emergency room or an urgent care center, which also sees walk-in patients.
 Critics say that the clinics could undermine the importance of the doctor-patient relationships and that follow-up care will be lacking. And some insurers do not cover visits.
 The clinics' numbers are increasing. Nationwide there are about 300; the Convenient Care Association, a trade group, says it expects the number to double by the end of the year. 
 Ten MinuteClinics are open in New Jersey CVS stores, joining 13 in New York and Connecticut; the company wants to add more in the region.
 And this week, MiniMedCare of Chester, N.J., and Pathmark supermarkets will announce their entry into New Jersey, in Pathmark stores. One clinic will open in Weehawken in March, and 11 more are planned.
 ''We're physicians and we know how to deliver convenient care because we've been doing it at our three urgent care centers,'' said Dr. Lawrence Earl, who owns MiniMedCare with Dr. Roger DiRuggiero.
 Like other retailers who have welcomed the clinics, Pathmark hopes patients visiting for a sore throat may also pick up cough drops. 
 ''You have a convenient setting with flexible hours with hopefully some of the products you might need if you are sick,'' said Rich Savner, a Pathmark spokesman. 
 But Dr. Edward J. Volpintesta, a Connecticut family-practice physician for 30 years, called the clinics ''the ultimate commodification of health care.''
 To illustrate the dangers of losing the doctor-patient relationship, Dr. Volpintesta recalled a patient in his 70s who was normally healthy but called to complain of shortness of breath. Dr. Volpintesta, whose office is in Bethel, said he recommended an emergency room visit; it turned out the man had had a heart attack.
 That was an extreme case, Dr. Volpintesta said, but ''I knew for him to call up and say he didn't feel right, something was really wrong.'' 
 Furthermore, he said, it may be disconcerting for store patrons to run into a sick person at the checkout line. 
 AtlantiCare Health Services, based in Egg Harbor Township, N.J., said it hoped to avoid those concerns with its in-store HealthRite clinics because of its affiliation with 400 doctors in South Jersey. The first clinic opened in August in a ShopRite in Somers Point, and six more are planned by the end of the year. 
 ''We can refer to our member doctors for more serious conditions, and they can refer to us for the minor problems,'' said Don Parker, the president of AtlantiCare.
 New Jersey's largest health insurer, Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield, pays for visits only to AtlantiCare centers. Horizon is negotiating with other retail clinics but wants to see how HealthRite works before signing with others, said James Dell'Arena, director of Horizon's network operations.
 The Convenient Care Association argues that the clinics save insurers money, noting that an emergency-room visit for an ear infection costs about $300 while a clinic visit is no more than $70. And, the group said, 40 percent of its patients said they would have headed for the emergency room if not for the clinics.
 Still, Horizon is concerned. 
 ''It is a cost-effective setting, but we still don't know what the true impact will be,'' Mr. Dell'Arena said.
 MinuteClinic is an in-network provider for Aetna and Cigna HealthCare, but not New York's largest insurer, the HIP Health Plan. Cigna said it signed up because the clinics save money for the company, members and their employers. Members ''want flexible hours, convenience, quick and affordable access to a clinician and more choices in how they handle minor medical conditions,'' said Wendy Sherry, associate vice president for product development. She also said that MinuteClinic, like other operators, has a system to forward records to a patient's own doctor.
 Some insurers may be holding back because they worry that retail health clinics will increase costs when patients go to them more frequently, precisely because they are so convenient, said Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton University. ''The insurers will do business with them once they get to know them better,'' Mr. Reinhardt said.
 A spokeswoman for the New York Medical Society, Lynda Adams, said that when the clinics first cropped up, the medical society was worried that insurers would pressure patients to go to the clinics instead of doctors because they were cheaper. The Medical Societies in New Jersey and Connecticut listed a lack of follow-up care as their main concern.
 Last June, the American Medical Association set nine guidelines for retail health clinics, including one saying patients should be urged to establish a relationship with a primary care doctor. The clinics operating in the area meet the A.M.A.'s standards.
 Even as the number of these clinics grows, many operators say they do not expect to make a profit for at least a year. On a recent Tuesday the Larchmont MinuteClinic served only two patients in 12 hours. 
 Pathmark is willing to give up valuable space until MiniMedCare turns a profit, in part because the clinic shares space with the pharmacy and does not take up much room, Mr. Savner said. And, like many clinics, MiniMedCare will pay rent.
 The future may bring an even larger role for retail clinics, said Richard Datz, the senior vice president for business development at CareClinic of Montvale, N.J. There are 8 CareClinics nationwide and 20 in the works, and the company is considering North Jersey for expansion.
 ''Look at how everyone is talking about universal health care,'' he said. ''Certainly these clinics could be part of the solution.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPEEDY -- Elizabeth Bella, top, at the MinuteClinic in the CVS in Chester, N.J., checks Peter Tringali
his mother, Marsha, looks on. The MinuteClinic fees in Larchmont, N.Y., where Stephen A. Ferrara and Annemarie McDermott work. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (94%); VACCINES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (75%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); CITIES (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); RETAILERS (64%) Medicine and Health; Drugstores; Supermarkets; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Nursing and Nurses; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Minuteclinics

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: Jennifer Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (92%) Larchmont (NY); New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



96 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: The Right Track

 BODY:
It is hard to think of any public works project that would more directly benefit more Long Islanders than upgrading the Long Island Rail Road. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority knows this and is bursting with proposals, from connecting the railroad to the East Side of Manhattan to electrifying the rails farther into Suffolk County. 
 The most ambitious of these plans have lain fallow for years, hobbled by fragile finances and deficits of political will. Riders have thus become used to living with old, unkept promises and seeing only intermittent improvements on a railroad that, after all, has a hard enough time making incremental fixes to nagging problems, like closing those annoying and dangerous gaps between tracks and platforms.
The authority and the railroad are not the only participants in this slow dance of inertia. Shortsighted local opposition, abetted by timid politicians, has been equally effective in torpedoing progress. A case in point is the groundswell of opposition to the railroad's plan to add a third track in western Nassau County as part of its Main Line Corridor Improvements Project.
 The wisdom of adding rail capacity between Jamaica and Hicksville is hardly debatable. More trains would ease a chronic bottleneck, especially at rush hour, and allow for greater reverse commuting, which would be a valuable spur to economic growth. The project would also remove a perennial danger: the grade-level crossings that imperil pedestrians, tie up local streets and inevitably fail in winter storms and other inopportune times.
 But with dismal predictability, a cluster of local residents and business owners has raised a ruckus at the idea of more trains in their backyards. The possibility of eminent-domain proceedings has people sharpening their pitchforks in New Hyde Park and other places. The battle has become a hot issue in the maniacally intense race for an open State Senate seat, which will be decided on Tuesday.
 The Republican candidate, Maureen O'Connell, has taken an adamantly Nimby stance against the third track, and accuses her opponent, the Democrat Craig Johnson, of being on the wrong side of the issue. But she's wrong -- Mr. Johnson, to his discredit, is on the barricades with her. 
 Whoever wins the Senate election on Tuesday would do well to abandon his or her sour parochialism and work with the authority and the railroad to foster an enlightened process that engages the public and promises fair treatment for anyone who loses property or is otherwise harmed by expanded rail service. The railroad is a critical artery that is neglected and frayed. It must be maintained so that Long Island will continue to be a place people can live, work and move around in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Railroads; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Long Island Rail Road

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



97 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Boast Is Put to Test

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
After decades of largely clandestine efforts, Iran is expected to declare in coming days that it has made a huge leap toward industrial-scale production of enriched uranium -- a defiant act that the country's leaders will herald as a major technical stride and its neighbors will denounce as a looming threat. But for now, many nuclear experts say, the frenetic activity at the desert enrichment plant in Natanz may be mostly about political showmanship. 
 The many setbacks and outright failures of Tehran's experimental program suggest that its bluster may outstrip its technical expertise. And the problems help explain American intelligence estimates that Iran is at least four years away from producing a nuclear weapon.
After weeks of limited access inside Iran, inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency have reported that Tehran has succeeded in manufacturing parts for about 3,000 centrifuges, the devices that can spin uranium into reactor fuel -- or bomb fuel. In recent days, the Iranians have begun installing the machines and supporting gear in a cavernous plant at Natanz, which would be a potential target if the United States or one of its allies decided that diplomacy would never keep Iran from getting the bomb. 
 What the Iranians are not talking about, experts with access to the atomic agency's information say, is that their experimental effort to make centrifuges work has struggled to achieve even limited success and appears to have been put on the back burner so the country's leaders can declare that they are moving to the next stage. 
 To enrich uranium on an industrial scale, the machines must spin at very high speeds for months on end. But the latest report of the atomic agency, issued in November, said the primitive machines of the Iran's pilot plant ran only intermittently, to enrich small amounts of uranium. And the Iranians succeeded in setting up just two of the planned six groupings of 164 centrifuges at the pilot plant. 
 ''It looks political unless they've made progress that we don't know about,'' said Mark Fitzpatrick, a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, a weapons analysis group in London. 
 Iran's nuclear boasts come in the midst of an increasingly rancorous chess game between Tehran's mullahs and the Bush administration over the aims of Iran's nuclear programs, its role in Iraq and its ambitions to become the dominant power in the Middle East. The speculation about imminent conflict has grown so strong that President Bush's new secretary of defense, Robert M. Gates, who is intimately familiar with Tehran's nuclear ambitions from his days as director of the Central Intelligence Agency, declared on Friday, ''We are not planning for a war with Iran.''
 Nuclear experts outside the United States government say that if Iran is successful in its latest move and carries out the enrichment, in open defiance of a United Nations demand that it suspend such activity, it could potentially yield fuel for an atom bomb in two or three years, faster than American intelligence has suggested.
 Even so, Iran's very public declarations appear to contain large doses of domestic political posturing and outright bluffing. 
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has become the face of Iranian defiance, is under growing pressure at home because of unemployment and the squeeze of economic sanctions -- and President Bush's advisers have said he may view a nuclear standoff with the United States as a way to help his standing. That, combined with evidence of problems at the pilot plant, suggest that the industrial push may be aimed as much at enriching Iran's political leverage as enriching uranium.
 The Iranians insist their effort is solely to fuel nuclear reactors, a statement that in the recent words of R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, ''no country that has seriously looked at the evidence believes.''
 At Natanz, where Iranian crews are installing the centrifuges, the desert south of Tehran gives way to barbed wire, antiaircraft guns and a maze of buildings. Two of those buildings are cavernous halls that, together, are roughly half the size of the Pentagon. They are buried deep underground to withstand attack.
 The crews are installing pipes, wiring and control panels and are now stringing together the centrifuges into a ''cascade'' of connected machines, which spin in parallel to achieve enrichment. ''They're working on the first cascade,'' a European diplomat said Friday. 
 The diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity as protocol, added that international inspectors who had just emerged from Tehran saw parts for 3,000 centrifuges. However, all of them are of the most elementary type, known as a P-1. The ''P'' stands for Pakistan, a legacy of the fact that Iran obtained the design from Abdul Qadeer Khan, the Pakistani rogue nuclear pioneer. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad claimed last year that the Iranians were also working on a more sophisticated centrifuge, called the P-2, which would enrich uranium far faster. But inspectors have yet to be shown any of those -- leading to speculation in Washington and Vienna about whether Iran has another, hidden facility. 
 In the underground halls at Natanz, Iranian officials say, the country plans to expand the number of centrifuges from 3,000 to 54,000 eventually, in theory letting it enrich uranium by the ton and giving it the capability to make many reactor fuel rods or nuclear weapons.
 However, Mr. Fitzpatrick, a former State Department official in the field of nuclear nonproliferation, said the industrial push made little sense given Iran's problems, as reported the I.A.E.A., in getting its experimental centrifuges to run smoothly at the pilot plant near the cavernous halls of Natanz.
 ''From a technical point of view,'' he said, ''it's illogical to stand up 3,000 centrifuges before you know how to do it.''
 The dimensions of Iran's technical woes are suggested by its delayed schedules. Tehran originally planned to have all six cascades of its experimental plant operating by 2003, and to begin installing centrifuges in the industrial halls in 2005.
 Mr. Fitzpatrick added that the industrial push made little strategic sense because the thousands of centrifuges would present a tempting target to an adversary. ''You might as well draw a big bull's eye around them,'' he said of the cavernous halls.
 Diplomats say they believe Iran plans to unveil its industrial push on Feb. 11, the anniversary of the Islamic revolution. Yesterday, as part of the anniversary celebrations, Iran took diplomats and journalists on a tour of another nuclear facility, at Isfahan. 
 Mr. Fitzpatrick said Iran would need this year to install the 3,000 machines at Natanz, next year to get them running smoothly, and 9 to 11 months of spinning to have them produce the fuel for a single bomb. He cautioned, however, that such an accomplishment would require all the machinery working more or less perfectly and the Iranians moving ''as quickly as they can.''
 Iran's enrichment program, begun in 1985, was born in great secrecy and built on centrifuge plans obtained from the black market of Dr. Khan. In 2002, the covert program was exposed when an Iranian opposition group revealed the construction of the plant at Natanz. 
 At first, inspectors from the international atomic agency in Vienna had wide latitude to travel through Iran in an effort to comprehend the depth and breadth of the enrichment project -- and assess its true nature, whether for war or peace. They toured centrifuge factories, found a hidden centrifuge factory behind a false wall in a small electric facility in downtown Tehran and hunted for signs of weapons-grade enrichment. They visited the cavernous hall at Natanz, until recently a huge, empty basement.
 By the atomic agency's estimates, Iran could produce upwards of 100 centrifuges a month, and was stockpiling them.
 Then, last February, after three years of unusual openness, Iran reacted to the growing pressure from Washington and Europe to suspend its enrichment -- or face sanctions -- by drastically reducing the access of international inspectors to Natanz and dozens of other atomic sites, programs and personnel.
 No longer could the inspectors swab machines, scoop up bits of soil, study invoices, peek behind doors and gather seemingly innocuous clues. No longer would the Iranians let the inspectors investigate the origins of traces of highly enriched uranium or examine important documents from the Khan network. Now, the inspectors are limited to a narrow range of operations, leaving them partially blind.
 The Iranians appear to have sped ahead. In interviews, diplomats and nuclear officials said recent inspector reports of rapid centrifuge mobilization and installation at Natanz show that Tehran had worked hard for the past year, even as it engaged in increasingly harsh language that some experts took as a cover for technical failings.
 Mohamed ElBaradei, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, recently suggested that the Iranian strides amounted to something of a bargaining chip that might be traded away to head off a larger confrontation.
 The West, he proposed at Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 26, might suspend its economic sanctions against Iran while Tehran simultaneously suspended its enrichment of uranium. He floated the idea for what he called a ''time-out'' after saying that Iranian officials had told him they planned to begin installing centrifuges this month at their Natanz industrial-scale plant.
 ''Enough flexing muscles, enough calling names,'' Dr. ElBaradei told reporters at the World Economic Forum conference. ''It's time to engage.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has boasted of Iran's nuclear abilities, but the program has been slowed by technological setbacks. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/Associated Press)(pg. 6)Map of Iran highlighting Natanz: Iran is installing centrifuges at a cavernous plant in Natanz. (pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRIFUGES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



98 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2627 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Contractors Take On Biggest Role Ever

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE and RON NIXON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
In June, short of people to process cases of incompetence and fraud by federal contractors, officials at the General Services Administration responded with what has become the government's reflexive answer to almost every problem.
 They hired another contractor.
It did not matter that the company they chose, CACI International, had itself recently avoided a suspension from federal contracting; or that the work, delving into investigative files on other contractors, appeared to pose a conflict of interest; or that each person supplied by the company would cost taxpayers $104 an hour. Six CACI workers soon joined hundreds of other private-sector workers at the G.S.A., the government's management agency.
 Without a public debate or formal policy decision, contractors have become a virtual fourth branch of government. On the rise for decades, spending on federal contracts has soared during the Bush administration, to about $400 billion last year from $207 billion in 2000, fueled by the war in Iraq, domestic security and Hurricane Katrina, but also by a philosophy that encourages outsourcing almost everything government does. 
 Contractors still build ships and satellites, but they also collect income taxes and work up agency budgets, fly pilotless spy aircraft and take the minutes at policy meetings on the war. They sit next to federal employees at nearly every agency; far more people work under contracts than are directly employed by the government. Even the government's online database for tracking contracts, the Federal Procurement Data System, has been outsourced (and is famously difficult to use). 
 The contracting explosion raises questions about propriety, cost and accountability that have long troubled watchdog groups and are coming under scrutiny from the Democratic majority in Congress. While flagrant cases of fraud and waste make headlines, concerns go beyond outright wrongdoing. Among them:
 Competition, intended to produce savings, appears to have sharply eroded. An analysis by The New York Times shows that fewer than half of all ''contract actions'' -- new contracts and payments against existing contracts -- are now subject to full and open competition. Just 48 percent were competitive in 2005, down from 79 percent in 2001.
 The most secret and politically delicate government jobs, like intelligence collection and budget preparation, are increasingly contracted out, despite regulations forbidding the outsourcing of ''inherently governmental'' work. Scott Amey, general counsel at the Project on Government Oversight, a watchdog group, said allowing CACI workers to review other contractors captured in microcosm ''a government that's run by corporations.''
 Agencies are crippled in their ability to seek low prices, supervise contractors and intervene when work goes off course because the number of government workers overseeing contracts has remained level as spending has shot up. One federal contractor explained candidly in a conference call with industry analysts last May that ''one of the side benefits of the contracting officers being so overwhelmed'' was that existing contracts were extended rather than put up for new competitive bidding.
 The most successful contractors are not necessarily those doing the best work, but those who have mastered the special skill of selling to Uncle Sam. The top 20 service contractors have spent nearly $300 million since 2000 on lobbying and have donated $23 million to political campaigns. ''We've created huge behemoths that are doing 90 or 95 percent of their business with the government,'' said Peter W. Singer, who wrote a book on military outsourcing. ''They're not really companies, they're quasi agencies.'' Indeed, the biggest federal contractor, Lockheed Martin, which has spent $53 million on lobbying and $6 million on donations since 2000, gets more federal money each year than the Departments of Justice or Energy. 
 Contracting almost always leads to less public scrutiny, as government programs are hidden behind closed corporate doors. Companies, unlike agencies, are not subject to the Freedom of Information Act. Members of Congress have sought unsuccessfully for two years to get the Army to explain the contracts for Blackwater USA security officers in Iraq, which involved several costly layers of subcontractors.Weighing the Limits
 The contracting surge has raised bipartisan alarms. A just-completed study by experts appointed by the White House and Congress, the Acquisition Advisory Panel, found that the trend ''poses a threat to the government's long-term ability to perform its mission'' and could ''undermine the integrity of the government's decision making.''
 The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, whose new Democratic chairman, Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, added the word ''oversight'' to signal his intentions, begins a series of investigative hearings on Tuesday focusing on contracts in Iraq and at the Department of Homeland Security.
 ''Billions of dollars are being squandered, and the taxpayer is being taken to the cleaners,'' said Mr. Waxman, who got an ''F'' rating last year from the Contract Services Association, an industry coalition. The chairman he succeeded, Representative Thomas M. Davis III, Republican of Virginia, earned an ''A.'' 
 David M. Walker, who as comptroller general of the United States leads the Government Accountability Office, has urged Congress to take a hard look at the proper limits of contracting. Mr. Walker has not taken a stand against contractors -- his agency is also dependent on them, he admits -- but he says they often fail to deliver the promised efficiency and savings. Private companies cannot be expected to look out for taxpayers' interests, he said.
 ''There's something civil servants have that the private sector doesn't,'' Mr. Walker said in an interview. ''And that is the duty of loyalty to the greater good -- the duty of loyalty to the collective best interest of all rather than the interest of a few. Companies have duties of loyalty to their shareholders, not to the country.''
 Even the most outspoken critics acknowledge that the government cannot operate without contractors, which provide the surge capacity to handle crises without expanding the permanent bureaucracy. Contractors provide specialized skills the government does not have. And it is no secret that some government executives favor contractors because they find the federal bureaucracy slow, inflexible or incompetent.
 Stan Soloway, president of the Professional Services Council, which represents government contractors, acknowledged occasional chicanery by contractors and too little competition in some areas. But Mr. Soloway asserted that critics had exaggerated the contracting problems.
 ''I don't happen to think the system is fundamentally broken,'' he said. ''It's remarkable how well it works, given the dollar volume.''Blurring the Lines
 Wariness of government contracting dates at least to 1941, when Harry S. Truman, then a senator, declared, ''I have never yet found a contractor who, if not watched, would not leave the government holding the bag.''
 But the recent contracting boom had its origins in the ''reinventing government'' effort of the Clinton administration, which slashed the federal work force to the lowest level since 1960 and streamlined outsourcing. Limits on what is ''inherently governmental'' and therefore off-limits to contractors have grown fuzzy, as the General Services Administration's use of CACI International personnel shows.
 ''Hi Heinz,'' Renee Ballard, a G.S.A. official, wrote in an e-mail message to Heinz Ruppmann, a CACI official, last June 12, asking for six ''contract specialists'' to help with a backlog of 226 cases that could lead to companies being suspended or barred from federal contracting. The CACI workers would review files and prepare ''proposed responses for review and signature,'' she wrote.
 Mr. Amey, of the Project on Government Oversight, which obtained the contract documents under the Freedom of Information Act, said such work was clearly inherently governmental and called it ''outrageous'' to involve contractors in judging the misdeeds of potential competitors. CACI had itself been reviewed in 2004 for possible suspension in connection with supplying interrogators to the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. The company was ultimately cleared, though the G.S.A. found that CACI employees had improperly written parts of the ''statements of work'' for its own Iraq contract.
 The price of $104 an hour -- well over $200,000 per person annually -- was roughly double the cost of pay and benefits of a comparable federal worker, Mr. Amey said.
 Asked for comment, the G.S.A. said decisions on punishments for erring contractors ''is indeed inherently governmental.'' But the agency said that while the CACI workers assisted for three months, ''all suspension/debarment decisions were made by federal employees.'' A CACI spokeswoman made the same point. 
 The G.S.A., like other agencies, said it did not track the number or total cost of its contract workers. The agency administrator, Lurita Doan, who previously ran a Virginia contracting firm, has actively pushed contracting. Ms. Doan recently clashed with her agency's inspector general over her proposal to remove the job of auditing contractors' proposed prices from his office and to hire contractors to do it instead.
 On some of the biggest government projects, Bush administration officials have sought to shift some decision making to contractors. When Michael P. Jackson, deputy secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, addressed potential bidders on the huge Secure Border Initiative last year, he explained the new approach.
 ''This is an unusual invitation,'' said Mr. Jackson, a contracting executive before joining the agency. ''We're asking you to come back and tell us how to do our business.'' 
 Boeing, which won the $80 million first phase of the estimated $2 billion project, is assigned not only to develop technology but also to propose how to use it, which includes assigning roles to different government agencies and contractors. Homeland Security officials insist that they will make all final decisions, but the department's inspector general, Richard L. Skinner, reported bluntly in November that ''the department does not have the capacity needed to effectively plan, oversee and execute the SBInet program.''A 'Blended Work Force'
 If the government is exporting some traditional functions to contractors, it is also inviting contractors into agencies to perform delicate tasks. The State Department, for instance, pays more than $2 million a year to BearingPoint, the consulting giant, to provide support for Iraq policy making, running software, preparing meeting agendas and keeping minutes.
 State Department officials insist that the company's workers, who hold security clearances, merely relieve diplomats of administrative tasks and never influence policy. But the presence of contractors inside closed discussions on war strategy is a notable example of what officials call the ''blended work force.''
 That blending is taking place in virtually every agency. When Polly Endreny, 29, sought work last year with the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, she was surprised to discover that most openings were with contractors.
 ''The younger generation is coming in on contracts,'' said Ms. Endreny, who likes the arrangement. Today, only the ''Oak Management'' on her ID badge distinguishes her from federal employees at the agency's headquarters.
 She said her pay was ''a little higher'' than that of comparable federal workers, and she gets dental coverage they do not. Such disparities can cause trouble. A recent study of one NOAA program where two-thirds of the work force were contractors found that differences in salary and benefits could '' substantially undermine staff relations and morale.''
 The shift away from open competition affects more than morale. One example among many: with troops short in Iraq, Congress in 2003 waived a ban on the use of private security guards to protect military bases in the United States. The results for the first $733 million were dismal, investigators at the Government Accountability Office found.
 The Army spent 25 percent more than it had to because it used sole-source contracts at 46 of 57 sites, the investigators concluded. And screening of guards was so lax that at one base, 61 guards were hired despite criminal records, auditors reported. Yet the Army gave the contractors more than $18 million in incentive payments intended to reward good performance. (The Army did not contest G.A.O.'s findings and has changed its methods.)A Coalition for Contracting
 Mr. Soloway, of the contracting industry group, argues that the contracting boom has resulted from the collision of a high-technology economy with an aging government work force -- twice as many employees are over 55 as under 30. To function, Mr. Soloway said, the government must now turn to younger, skilled personnel in the private sector, a phenomenon likely to grow when what demographers call a ''retirement tsunami'' occurs over the next decade.
 ''This is the new face of government,'' Mr. Soloway said. ''This isn't companies gouging the government. This is the marketplace.''
 But Paul C. Light of New York University, who has long tracked the hidden contractor work force to assess what he calls the ''true size of government,'' says the shift to contractors is driven in part by federal personnel ceilings. He calls such ceilings a ''sleight of hand'' intended to allow successive administrations to brag about cutting the federal work force.
 Yet Mr. Light said the government had made no effort to count contractors and no assessment of the true costs and benefits. ''We have no data to show that contractors are actually more efficient than the government,'' he said.
 Meanwhile, he said, a potent coalition keeps contracting growing: the companies, their lobbyists and supporters in Congress and many government managers, who do not mind building ties to contractors who may hire them someday. ''All the players with any power like it,'' he said.
 That is evident wherever in Washington contractors gather to scout new opportunities. There is no target richer than the Homeland Security Department, whose Web site, in a section called ''Open for Business,'' displays hundreds of open contracts, including ''working with selected cities to develop and exercise their catastrophic plans'' ($500,000 to $1 million) and ''Conduct studies and analyses, systems engineering, or provide laboratory services to various organizations to support the DHS mission'' ($20 to $50 million).
 One crisp morning in an office building with a spectacular view of the Capitol, Alfonso Martinez-Fonts Jr., the agency's assistant secretary for the private sector, addressed a breakfast seminar on ''The Business of Homeland Security.'' The session drew a standing-room crowd. 
 Mr. Martinez-Fonts, a banker before joining the government, said he could not personally hand out contracts but could offer ''tips, hints and directions'' to companies on the hunt.
 Joe Haddock, a Sikorsky Helicopters executive, summed up the tone of the session. ''To us contractors,'' Mr. Haddock said, ''money is always a good thing.''The Fourth Branch
 This article is the first in a series to examine government contracting.
 a) on lobbyingb) on campaign contributions* Includes both new contracts and payments against existing contracts.(Sources by Federal Procurement Data Center; Center for Responsive Politics; Senate Office of Public Records)(pg. 26) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boeing won a contract for the Secure Border Initiative, which includes high-tech watchtowers in Arizona. (Photo by Daniel Snyder for The New York Times)
Paul C. Light of New York University says hiring contractors lets the government claim it has trimmed its work force. Polly Endreny, a contract employee, likes the arrangement, which offers better pay and benefits. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 26)Chart: ''Outsourcing the Government''A boom in federal contracting has raised some concerns about propriety, cost and accountability. The percentage of contracts that are fully competitive has fallen, while spending on lobbying and campaign contributions has increasedGraphs track the following since 2000: 1. Spending on federal contracts2. Contracts subject to full and open competition*3. Spending by the top 20 service contractors 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS & BIDS (92%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); LAWYERS (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); CONTRACTS LAW (71%); HURRICANES (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CACI INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: CACI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



99 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Iran Has Guests In to See, but Not Inspect, Nuclear Site

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: ISFAHAN, Iran, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
Iran opened one of its nuclear sites to a large number of local and international reporters and a delegation of foreign ambassadors on Saturday in an effort to show the transparency of its program before a United Nations Security Council deadline this month. 
 Delegations from the Non-Aligned Movement, Group of 77 and League of Arab States arrived at the Isfahan Uranium Conversion Facility in central Iran with nearly 100 reporters. The delegation included representatives from the United Nations nuclear agency from Algeria, Cuba, Egypt and Malaysia, though none were official inspectors.
 Iran has kept up efforts to give the Isfahan facility more publicity, and a senior tourism official said late last year that Iran planned to open it and other nuclear sites to foreign tourists.
 Iran's ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, said Saturday that the purpose of the tour was to assure the world that Iran's program was peaceful.
 ''In fact we have representatives from all over the world,'' Mr. Soltanieh said. ''We decided to have them come here and see for themselves.'' He emphasized that surveillance cameras of the United Nations' International Atomic Energy Agency were in place there. 
 Photographers and video camera operators were not allowed to take pictures in the outside area of the compound. But the visitors were given special clothes, gloves and masks to protect them from radiation and toured the main facility for nearly an hour. 
 The Isfahan site is where uranium ore is converted into yellowcake and gas. The gas is then transferred to a more sophisticated facility in Natanz, where it could be enriched with centrifuges. 
 Reporters on Saturday passed the Natanz enrichment facility but were not permitted to tour the site, where Iran recently said it was installing 3,000 centrifuges. The facility is near the main road, and like Isfahan, it was surrounded by antiaircraft artillery. The Isfahan site also had air-raid bunkers. 
 Iran insists that its program is for electricity production, but the United States and European countries contend that it is part of an effort that eventually could produce enough highly enriched uranium to make nuclear weapons. 
 The tour occurred as a United Nations deadline neared this month for Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment program or face tougher economic sanctions. The United Nations Security Council passed a resolution on Dec. 23 banning the trade of goods and technology related to Iran's nuclear program.
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has brushed off the sanctions as insignificant and has vowed to continue with the program.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the news media took pictures yesterday of an Iranian technician at a nuclear plant in Isfahan. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRIFUGES (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (66%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



100 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1777 words

HEADLINE: Smokestacks in a White Wilderness Divide Iceland in a Development Debate

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: NORTH OF VATNAJOKULL GLACIER, Iceland 

 BODY:
In the depths of winter there is almost nothing to see here but snow and rock: snow across the uneven, unearthly landscape, snow on the mist-shrouded mountains, snow stretching to what looks like the edge of the world.
 But tucked into Iceland's central highlands, where the Karahnjukar mountain meets two powerful rivers flowing north from Europe's largest glacier, a nearly completed jigsaw of dams, tunnels and reservoirs has begun to reshape the wilderness.
This is the $3 billion Karahnjukar Hydropower Project, a sprawling enterprise to harness the rivers for electricity that will be used for a single purpose: to fuel a new aluminum smelter owned by Alcoa, the world's largest aluminum company. It has been the focus of the angriest and most divisive battle in recent Icelandic history. 
 The culmination of years of effort by the center-right government to increase international investment in Iceland, the project has already begun to revitalize Iceland's underpopulated east. But it has also mobilized an angry and growing coalition of people who feel that the authorities have sacrificed Iceland's most precious asset -- the pristine land itself -- to heavy industry from abroad. 
 Now, with proposals on the table for three more power-plant-and-aluminum-smelter projects, environmentalists say the chance to protect Iceland's spectacular, and spectacularly fragile, natural beauty is running out.
 ''If all of these projects get through, then it's a total environmental apocalypse for the Icelandic highlands; they'll have developed every single major glacial river and geothermal field for heavy industry,'' said Olafur Pall Sigurdsson, one of the organizers of Saving Iceland, a coalition of groups opposing further development. 
 ''It is a very rare nature that we are the guardians of, and we are squandering it,'' he said. 
 The basic issue of how to balance development and nature is the same here as in environmental fights everywhere. But the details are always slightly askew in Iceland, which sits temperamentally as well as geographically on its own, floating between Europe and America. 
 One of the most unspoiled places in the developed world, Iceland is slightly larger than Indiana, with a population of about 300,000 people (Indiana's is 6.3 million). Two-thirds live in the capital, Reykjavik; the rest are spread across 39,800 square miles of volcanic rock, treeless tundra and scrubby plains. Seventy percent of the land is uninhabitable. 
 Icelanders tend to view their unpredictable environment -- carved from volcanoes and ice and full of stunning waterfalls, geysers, fjords and glaciers -- with respect and awe. The air is so pure that the Kyoto Protocol gave Iceland the right to increase its greenhouse emissions by 10 percent from 1990 levels. 
 The pending proposals call for four more dams, as many as eight new geothermal and hydroelectric power plants, two new smelters (one owned by Alcoa) and the expansion of capacity at an existing smelter. If all are built, foreign companies would have the capacity to produce as much as 1.6 million tons of aluminum in Iceland a year. 
 They are also allowed to pollute: another Kyoto exception gave power-intensive industries that use renewable energy in Iceland the right to emit an extra 1.6 million metric tons of carbon dioxide a year until 2012.
 As a whole, the new smelters would require about eight times the amount of electricity currently used for all of Iceland's domestic consumption, putting a huge strain on the country's rivers and thermal fields, said Hjorleifur Guttormsson, who was Iceland's energy and industry minister from 1980 to 1985. Mr. Guttormsson, a naturalist, said pollution was another concern: aluminum plants are heavy emitters of sulfur dioxide, hydrogen fluoride and other chemicals. 
 But Alcoa says it has fitted state-of-the-art pollution controls in its new plant and has already fulfilled its companywide pledge to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent from their 1990 level.
 A spokesman for the company, Kevin Lowery, said the new smelter would produce 1.8 metric tons of carbon dioxide for every metric ton of aluminum it produced -- a total of 541,000 metric tons a year -- compared with 13 metric tons of carbon dioxide per metric ton of aluminum for a coal-fired smelter. ''The emissions from this facility will be less than for any other facility of this size elsewhere in the world,'' he said. 
 Jon Sigurdsson, minister of industry and commerce, said the proposals were subject to multiple hurdles, including, in some cases, local referendums. The government has always applied rigorous environmental standards to development projects, he said, and is preparing legislation that would set out a master plan for the country, designating which areas are to be protected and which have the potential for development. 
 ''We stand on the threshold of a new era,'' he said. ''We wish to take both sides into consideration in a new general framework that will accept environmental concerns as being as important as other concerns.''
 Sigurdur Arnalds, a spokesman for Landsvirkjun, the national power company, which is developing the Karahnjukar project, said: ''Democracy will have the final say. Naturally, we will not build up every possibility we have; we have to stop someplace.'' 
 Iceland is a prosperous country, but its prosperity is concentrated in Reykjavik. The government has long sought ways to bolster the economy by exploiting the country's second- biggest natural resource, after fish: electric power, derived from a vast network of rivers and from underground geothermal fields. 
 But since the power cannot feasibly be exported, the idea has been to import demand. Aluminum seems a perfect fit. It is a power-intensive industry that needs easy access to ports for importing raw materials and exporting the finished product. Iceland has clean, available power, abundant coasts and proximity to the lucrative European market.
 Iceland's first aluminum plant was built in the 1960s; there are now two, both near Reykjavik. 
 ''The government has done everything in its power to make way for these plants,'' Kolbrun Halldorsdottir, a member of Parliament from the Left-Green Movement, said. ''They have been fixed to this scheme like Saudi Arabia is fixed to oil. They don't believe in entrepreneurship, job opportunities in our culture, tourism. They only believe in aluminum.''
 The Karahnjukar project, years in planning, had the support of the center-right coalition government, which has been in power for 12 years. In opinion polls, the majority of Icelanders have consistently supported it, too, saying it would bring jobs and money to the eastern fjords. 
 But environmentalists say the project will devastate some 3 percent of Iceland's land mass, destroying or affecting 60 waterfalls; causing widespread soil erosion that will send sand and dust blowing across the highlands and onto farms; and flooding an area covered in unusual moss and used by reindeer, nesting pink-footed geese and myriad birds, like the gyrfalcon and the ptarmigan. 
 They say, too, that the dam is inherently unstable, built on an unusually thin, fractured crust of earth near one of the most volcanically volatile areas in the world. Just south, the Vatnajokull glacier is melting rapidly from global warming, adding to the geological uncertainty. 
 In 2001, the Icelandic Planning Agency rejected the Karahnjukar plan, ruling that any economic benefits would not compensate for the potential environmental harm. But Iceland's environment minister at the time overturned the decision, setsome new conditions and allowed the project to go ahead.
 Opponents now say that many Icelanders did not appreciate its scale or potential impact.
 ''People were kind of misled, and I don't think even the politicians really understood what was going on,'' said Andri Snaer Magnason, a poet, playwright and novelist. Last year, Mr. Magnason, 31, published ''Dreamland,'' a devastating polemic that puts Iceland's environmental issues into a global perspective. The book has sold 18,000 copies -- the equivalent, in percentage terms, of 18 million copies in the United States. 
 In September, Omar Ragnarsson, one of the country's most respected television reporters, announced that he could no longer cover the Karahnjukar project with a journalist's impartiality and would campaign against it. In a country where public demonstrations are rare, he led an antidam rally in Reykjavik, attended by 8,000 to 13,000 people. 
 When seen up close, the project dominates the landscape. At 2,400 feet wide and 650 feet tall, the dam is the highest of its kind in Europe. The reservoir, which will eventually cover 22 square miles, stretches out across one side, where land used to be; an empty riverbed carved far down in the rock stretches from the other side, where water used to be. 
 The harnessed water is to be sent through 45 miles of tunnels blasted into the mountains to a new hydropower station built deep inside a mountain in the Fljotsdalur Valley. 
 Finally, the electricity is to be sent along 32 miles of overland transmission lines to the Alcoa smelter, a milelong building on the edge of a fjord in the town of Reydarfjordur. 
 The smelter is supposed to begin producing aluminum by this summer, and the initial effects are obvious: there is a building boom going on in the east. ''It's like gold fever, or when everyone is drunk -- and you know that the hangover will come,'' said Greta Osk Sigurdardottir, a cattle and dairy farmer who lives in the area and who opposes the project. 
 Reydarfjordur, population 650, has its first mall. Housing prices have gone up. People are moving back, and the extra money has begun to give the town modern amenities, said Helga Jonsdottir, the mayor of Reydarfjordur and five other villages.
 But others are not so happy. Gudmundur M. H. Beck spent his first 57 years in Reydarfjordur, raising sheep and chickens on his family's farm. When 18 electricity pylons were built across the land and the government passed regulations forbidding grazing there, Mr. Beck took his animals to the slaughterhouse and moved north, where he lives near unspoiled mountains and lakes and is taking history classes, he said. 
 ''This is the most horrible thing that has ever been done here,'' he said. ''I really have no words to describe it.'' 
 The smelter is low, but dominates the coast. Shopping at a sporting-goods store at the mall, Krilla Bjork, 61, said she was thrilled at all the new stores and houses. Of the smelter, she said, ''It's not beautiful, but I accept it because it's necessary.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wild reindeer grazed recently near a road leading to the Karahnjukar Hydropower Project in eastern Iceland.
 A composite panoramic view combines several photos of the fjord near the village of Reydarfjordur, Iceland, and Alcoa's aluminum smelter on the far shore. The smelter is to begin producing aluminum by this summer. (Photographs by Dean C. K. Cox for The New York Times)Maps of Iceland highlight the location of the proposed power-plant-and-aluminum-smelter projects: The $3 billion hydropower project is being built to harness Iceland's rivers for electricity to fuel the smelter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (89%); RIVERS (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (56%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%) INDIANA, USA (90%) ICELAND (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



101 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Hopes Soar After Record Hospital Gift of $400 Million

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D., Feb. 3 

 BODY:
South Dakota's economic renaissance has gone largely unnoticed, eclipsed by things like the state's strong opposition to same-sex marriage, its raucous debates over abortion and the stroke suffered by one of its senators, Tim Johnson, that could tip control of the Senate back to the Republicans.
 But in the 1990s, its long stagnant population began to grow, especially here and in Rapid City, and its economy began to diversify. Its lack of personal and corporate income taxes made it attractive to companies and their employees, and while other states tightened their usury laws, South Dakota relaxed its, attracting numerous credit card companies. Citibank continues to be one of the state's largest employers, with 3,200 employees, and call centers line the highways around Sioux Falls.
Now, T. Denny Sanford, a low-key billionaire who made his home and fortune here, will help sustain the state's economic boom with a $400 million gift to the Sioux Valley Hospitals and Health System, the state's largest employer. Hospital officials hope the gift -- the largest ever to a hospital, according to the Center for Philanthropy at Indiana University -- will help transform Sioux Valley Hospitals, which will change its name to Sanford Health, into a national institution that will eclipse Johns Hopkins and the Mayo Clinic. 
 ''He told me he doesn't want this to be just another Mayo,'' said Kelby K. Krabbenhoft, Sioux Valley's chief executive.
 It has four stated goals: to build five pediatric clinics around the country; to expand research, especially in pediatrics; to build a health care campus with more than 20 separate facilities, and to identify a promising line of medical research and follow it to a cure, much the same way John D. Rockefeller's money found a cure for yellow fever and Bill Gates is searching for a cure for H.I.V./AIDS.
 ''If I could put my name on a project in my lifetime and see a major medical breakthrough because of it, that's what I would love to do,'' said Mr. Sanford in an interview from Scottsdale, Ariz.
 ''The idea that we could really put Sioux Falls and South Dakota so much more on the map, that we could create additional employment and attract people from around the country and around the world, that was really a hot button for me,'' Mr. Sanford said.
 The gift is the third major contribution to a health care organization announced in the last week, following a $100 million gift to Brown University's medical school and a $75 million gift to a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla.
 Mr. Sanford's gift is greater than the total assets of $256 million held by South Dakota's 126 foundations in 2004, according to data compiled by the National Center for Charitable Statistics.
 Dan Scott, president of the Sioux Falls Development Foundation, said: ''But I think given the amount of resources that will be dedicated to research as part of this gift, we're going to see new companies forming around that research and companies attracted here by the research from elsewhere. It's going to be huge.''
 The gift addresses several of the goals of Gov. Mike Rounds's 2010 Initiative, which intends to increase tourism, expand the state's economy by $10 billion, largely through the growth of existing business like Sioux Valley Hospitals, and have the state become a regional leader in research and technology.
 ''It's hard to measure quality of life unless you're talking about enjoyment, relaxation and security, and health care is key to all of those things,'' the governor said in an interview. Randall M. Stuefen, a researcher who ran an analysis on the economic impact of the gift, estimated it would create 9,200 jobs in the next decade, some 1,170 of which would be permanent, and add $1.2 billion to the economy. ''Beyond its economic impact, this will help the state emerge as a more scientific place, which will attract other types of business to it,'' Mr. Stuefen said.
 Mr. Sanford made a modest fortune in the chemical business and used it to buy United National Bank here, which he in turn used to build a credit card business catering to people with shaky credit.
 ''The state has been so good to me in terms of opportunities and the personnel it's offered me, and it's time to pay back,'' he said. Earlier this year, Mr. Sanford donated $70 million to supplement the state's investment in the creation of a deep underground science and research facility in the former Homestake Gold Mine in Lead, S.D. The state is competing with Colorado to win a National Science Foundation grant, and Mr. Sanford's money will enable it to develop mine shafts even farther underground and to create a science center atop the facility.
 ''This will attract scientists from around the world, and the center can be used as a place where they can tell our kids about what they're working on and pique their interest in math and science,'' Mr. Rounds said.
 Mr. Sanford's first foray into big league philanthropy in 2003 was unsuccessful: a proposed $35 million gift for a new football stadium at the University of Minnesota. He said the university wanted to build a more expensive stadium than he thought was wise and refused to give him naming rights unless he donated more.
 So he walked away and the next year gave $16 million to Sioux Valley to build the Sanford Children's Hospital. Designed to look like a medieval castle, it will stand out in this flat city of modest homes and box-like offices and retail outlets.
 Since 2005, he has made major gifts totaling more than $700 million, including the one announced Saturday, and he said more would follow. ''I'm running out of the runway of my life,'' said Mr. Sanford, whose wealth was pegged at $2.5 billion by Forbes magazine. ''I just turned 71, and my preference is to die broke.''
 Sioux Valley plans to finance the goals of the gift using interest from Mr. Sanford's gift and money from other sources. Mr. Krabbenhoft, Sioux Valley's chief executive officer, said the hospital hoped to build a $1 billion reserve that would rival those of better known institutions like Mount Sinai in New York.
 That, coupled with new research facilities to be housed under a huge transparent dome that by itself could put Sioux Falls on the map, will help attract and retain physicians, said Charles P. O'Brien, Sioux Valley's senior vice president. ''Recruiting physicians is an international game these days, so we're trying to provide a place where doctors will want to come and practice the rest of their lives,'' he said.
 Technology will link the five pediatric clinics to the Sanford Children's Hospital and its specialists and services and give the facility better insight into practices and developments elsewhere in the country and perhaps even the world, as it hopes to turn the concept into a chain of clinics perhaps reaching into Canada and Mexico as well.
 The hospital also hopes to establish an education annuity for every child it sees. In return, it would ask each child to send in annual blood and other samples so the hospital can create a database.
 But perhaps the biggest challenge for the hospital, Mr. Krabbenhoft said, will be to maintain its current standards while working to make the most of Mr. Sanford's gift.
 ''More than one million people a year come through our doors, and we spend $2 million a day treating them,'' he said. ''This can't distract us from that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a $400 million gift from T. Denny Sanford to the Sioux Valley Hospitals and Health System referred incorrectly to medical research financed by two other philanthropists, John D. Rockefeller and Bill Gates. Mr. Rockefeller's money was used to develop a vaccine to prevent yellow fever; it did not result in a ''cure.'' Mr. Gates has focused primarily on H.I.V. prevention, rather than on ''searching for a cure.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The philanthropist T. Denny Sanford, here in Scottsdale, Ariz., donated money to the Sioux Valley Hospitals. ''The state has been so good to me,'' Mr. Sanford says of South Dakota. (Photo by Dave Eggen for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Pat Shannahan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (88%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); STROKES (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (75%); MARRIAGE (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); PEDIATRICS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); ABORTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); CORPORATE TAX (56%); INCOME TAX (56%); CREDIT CARDS (55%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (54%); CALL CENTERS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); MAYO CLINIC (54%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (59%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); BILL GATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (93%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (89%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



102 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Developers Set to Make Far West Side Much Taller

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The developer H. Henry Elghanayan likes to be at the head of the line.
 He said that his company, Rockrose Development Corporation, was one of the first to build new residential towers in Lower Manhattan and the West Village and at Queens West in Long Island City and Battery City Park.
This month, Mr. Elghanayan will be the first developer to start building a residential complex on the Far West Side of Manhattan, which is the direct result of the Bloomberg administration's rezoning of a 310-acre stretch of factories, parking lots and warehouses for large-scale development two years ago.
 Rockrose is constructing 44-story and 24-story apartment buildings on opposite sides of 10th Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, in what has been officially renamed the Hudson Yards district. ''Once people see that we are indeed going forward,'' Mr. Elghanayan said, ''you're going to see an explosion of growth in that whole area.'' 
 Builders are already flocking to the once-sleepy Hudson Yards, an area crisscrossed by bus ramps and Lincoln Tunnel entrances.
 Indeed, a half-dozen developers plan to start residential projects there in the next six months, with a combined total of nearly 6,000 apartments, 20 percent of which will be for low- and moderate-income families.
 There are also five slim-budget hotels either under construction or in development on the block bounded by 39th and 40th Streets, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues.
 Most developers say that commercial towers will be slower to follow in a district that stretches from roughly 30th to 42nd Streets, west of Eighth Avenue. But Brookfield Financial Properties is talking to at least one investment bank interested in its office site on Ninth Avenue, between 31st and 33rd Streets.
 City officials say they are making progress on plans for the $2.1 billion extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to 11th Avenue and 34th Street, which, they add, will spur the development of office towers in the area. The Bloomberg administration sold $2 billion in bonds in December, much of it for the subway project. It hopes to issue the tunneling contract later this year and begin construction.
 The city is also working with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to devise a plan for selling the development rights over the West Side railyards, which sit on both sides of 11th Avenue, between 30th and 33rd Streets. ''There's an extraordinary amount of activity going on, precipitated by high rents in Midtown,'' said Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development. ''You're really beginning to see the outlines of what Hudson Yards is going to look like.''
 But just north of the yards, the fate of the long-planned expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center is up in the air again, at least temporarily. Gov. Eliot Spitzer's administration has said that the convention center is one of several projects ''under review.'' According to hotel industry executives and city officials, Mr. Spitzer has questioned the wisdom and cost of the $1.7 billion project, in part because of the vertical nature of the expansion, which runs counter to the horizontal layout of most convention centers.
 Critics contend that adding floors to the convention center could make it more difficult and expensive to present successful trade shows and conventions. Some state officials prefer an expansion that would go south, over the West Side railyards.
 That, however, would clash with the Bloomberg administration's plan to develop residential and commercial towers on platforms over the railyards. It could also affect the three developers and hotel operators who submitted competing bids to build a 1,500-room hotel across 11th Avenue from the convention center.
 But it remains to be seen what the Spitzer administration will do with the convention center after the review. Patrick J. Foye, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, declined to comment.
 Mr. Doctoroff said he respected the governor's right to evaluate the project and would participate in those discussions.
 ''There will be no ideal solution as long as Javits is still there and you want to continue to operate it during construction,'' he said. ''We continue to believe it is a very good solution and we ought to go ahead with Phase II at the same time.''
 The second phase, however, could add $1 billion to the price and require closing the convention center for several years. The hotel industry has no enthusiasm for raising the $1.50 a night room tax dedicated to the expansion plan. City officials have suggested raising the tax to $2, noting that average room rates soared 12.6 percent last year. 
 Mr. Doctoroff and the transportation authority have met with real estate developers and community leaders to discuss the eventual sale of development rights over the railyards in August. The initial plan called for rights to be sold to one or two developers, who would build platforms over the yards for residential and commercial towers. But most developers now say that government should finance the platform construction, which could cost $1 billion.
 There is also debate over whether the development rights should be sold to one developer, or divided and sold to a variety of builders, a strategy that could generate more money over time for the transportation authority. 
 Developers also want the city to demolish the elevated railroad line, known as the High Line, that hugs the western and southern perimeter of the railyards. That proposal is opposed by several community groups, which want to see the entire length of the High Line converted to a park.
 In the meantime, the residential juggernaut continues. The developer Joseph Moinian is starting work on a $760 million, 60-story apartment tower on the north side of 42nd Street, west of 11th Avenue, next to his 46-story Atelier condominium tower.
 Directly across 42nd Street, Larry Silverstein is close to starting construction of two 58-story glass towers, where 20 percent of the 1,276 apartments will be set aside for low-income families. An adjacent 16-story building will have 83 apartments for moderate-income tenants. The new buildings will be next to the River Place complex that Mr. Silverstein built in 1999.
 All five buildings, designed by the architect Costas Condylis, sit within the Hudson Yards district. The area differs from most of the district in that developers have long been able to build high-rises along 42nd Street.
 At the southeast corner of 10th and 42nd Street, Stephen J. Ross, chief executive of Related Companies, said he expected to start construction this spring on a roughly 60-story tower with 500 apartments, 250 hotel rooms and a set of theaters.
 The Dermot Company said it would start building its $450 million Hudson Mews project, two 18-story buildings over platforms on opposite sides of 37th Street, west of Ninth Avenue, along with a public park. Stephen Benjamin, a principal at Dermot, said the company was completing its financing and negotiations with the Port Authority to buy development rights over ramps leading to the Lincoln Tunnel. 
 Farther east, on the north side of 37th Street, Glenwood Management plans to break ground later this year for a 24-story building with 550 apartments. 
 Jeff Levine of Douglas Development expects to start this spring on a 34-story building with 370 apartments just outside the Hudson Yards district, at the southeast corner of 30th Street and 11th Avenue.
 Like most of the developers, Mr. Moinian is bullish on the future. He has bid in partnership with the Marriott hotel chain to build the convention hotel and banquet hall. He also owns two sites for commercial projects in the area, although he cannot begin construction for at least five years because the sites lay within the path of the subway extension.
 ''Our commitment to the area is very, very strong,'' Mr. Moinian said. ''There's no question that this is the next part of town where the action takes place.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a coming surge in the construction of high-rise residential buildings on the Far West Side of Manhattan misspelled the surname of the architect who has designed five of the buildings, on 42nd Street west of 11th Avenue. He is Costas Kondylis, not Condylis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rezoning of a 310-acre stretch of factories, parking lots and warehouses on the Far West Side has led the way for plans for residential towers. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 30)Chart/Map: ''A Building Spree''Residential and hotel projects to be built in the Hudson Yards district, a result of rezoning in a western area of Midtown Manhattan.1. Moinian Group: 60 stories, 1,000 apts.2. Silverstein Properties: two 58-story towers, 16-story building, 1,359 apts.3. Related Companies: 60-story tower with 500 apts. and 250 hotel rooms4. Rockrose: 24 stories, 380 apts.5. Rockrose: 44 stories, 800 apts.6. Dermot Company: 18 stories -- 8097. Dermot Company: 18 stories -- 8098. Glenwood Management: 24 stories, 550 apts.9. Douglaston Development: 34 stories, 370 apts.Map of Hudson Yards district highlighting areas listed above. (pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); ZONING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITIES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); FAMILY (65%); BONDS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%) Zoning; Area Planning and Renewal; Transit Systems; Subways; Housing; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Rockrose Development Corp; Javits, Jacob J, Convention Center (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (91%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (91%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Hudson Yards (NYC); New York City; West Side (NYC) 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



103 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: On Road to Kosovo Independence, a Warning: Go Slow

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: MITROVICA, Kosovo, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Thuggish Serbian ''bridge watchers'' still maintain their vigil on the north side of the Ibar River here, ready to punish any ethnic Albanian who dares to cross the unofficial boundary between Serbian and ethnic Albanian territory in Europe's unfinished war. 
 Kosovo, still officially a province of Serbia, is bitterly divided between Serbian enclaves, including a large chunk of the north, and the rest of the territory, which is overwhelmingly ethnic Albanian. Now, as the United Nations nudges Kosovo toward what it calls ''final status'' and Belgrade calls independence, many of northern Kosovo's Serbs are threatening to break away.
''Northern Kosovo will secede,'' warned Oliver Ivanovic, a moderate Serbian politician here. Mr. Ivanovic says he has been warning the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and the United States that, nearly eight years after a NATO bombing campaign drove the Serbian Army and other security forces out of Kosovo, it is still too early to settle the status of the disputed territory. ''Kosovo's independence will leave no space for the moderates to act.''
 Secession by northern Serbs could provoke Albanian reprisals against Serbian enclaves elsewhere in Kosovo, warn Serbs and Albanians alike, and could destabilize a still fragile region full of ethnic slivers separated from their homelands. 
 Kosovo, which is more than 90 percent ethnic Albanian, has struggled since the early 20th century to free itself from the dominance of Belgrade. With the breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s the fight began anew, but Serbia resisted fiercely.
 The war was marked by atrocities on both sides and a horrific cycle of ''ethnic cleansing,'' as the formerly mixed Serbian and ethnic Albanian populations pulled apart. Nearly 10,000 ethnic Albanians died as well as many Serbs. Thousands more, mostly ethnic Albanians, remain missing.
 It ended with NATO's intervention in 1999, and the province has been administered by the United Nations ever since. 
 [A United Nations mediator, Martti Ahtisaari, presented his proposals for Kosovo's final status to officials in Belgrade and Pristina on Friday, but the two sides remained far apart. The Serbian president, Boris Tadic, immediately rejected the plans as a prelude to independence while Kosovo Albanians -- who with the United States' blessing have said they will accept nothing less than independence -- welcomed them. The continued standoff suggested that the intended end may instead be a prologue to another difficult chapter in a troubled history.]
 Most of the Kosovo Serbs insist that they will never accept an independent Kosovo. Even if the government in Pristina does hoist a new national flag, they say, they will fight to recover the province that Serbs still consider their cultural heartland -- the cradle and, in 1389 at the hand of the Turks, the grave of their great medieval empire.
 ''It would create a situation like Iraq or Lebanon here in Serbia,'' said Milan Ivanovic, a doctor at Mitrovica's hospital and head of Kosovo's hard-line Serbian National Council (no relation to Oliver Ivanovic). He cited the Christian reconquest of Moorish Spain and France's eventual recovery of the Alsace-Lorraine region from Germany as models. ''We would fight to get Kosovo back with all legitimate means.''
 Kosovo Albanians and their international supporters hope that a high degree of autonomy in Serbian areas with guarantees for the protection of Serbian rights and strict international oversight will eventually persuade Serbs in the territory to accept an Albanian-led government in Pristina.
 ''Hopefully, with independence, a local Serb leadership will emerge to address the needs of the Serbs within the Kosovo system,'' said Muhamet Hamiti, an adviser to Kosovo's president, Fatmir Sejdiu. 
 Some moderate Serbian politicians are already willing to work within a Kosovo national system, even if their political support in the Serbian community is small.
 But Serbian enclaves, particularly northern Kosovo, still operate under Serbian national authority and draw most of their financial support from Belgrade, raising questions about how Pristina could enforce sovereignty over Kosovo Serbs without coercive actions that would risk provoking more violence.
 Nowhere is the divide as clear as in the region around this northern city. A United Nations-financed train that links the rest of Kosovo's Serb enclaves with the north carries Serbs and Albanians alike until it reaches the Mitrovica station south of the river. There, even the Albanian conductor gets off. Only Serbs ride on for another 15 minutes across an iron railroad bridge to the end of the line.
 ''I'm not brave enough to go up there,'' the conductor said, watching the train pull away. ''I survived the war. I don't need another challenge.''
 Cars carry Serbian license plates and the economy still operates on the Serbian dinar even though the Albanian areas of this long-disputed territory, now administered by the United Nations, long ago converted to the euro. Serbia's Ministry of Education in Belgrade has even set up what it calls the ''University of Pristina, Temporarily Located in Mitrovica.''
 ''How can they force us to accept independence?'' asked Dr. Ivanovic, the Serbian politician, who like many people working for Serbian institutions in Kosovo's Serbian enclaves is paid an above average salary by Belgrade as a reward for his loyalty.
 While many people see fixing Kosovo's eventual independence as the last chapter of Yugoslav disintegration, Serbs see it as the dismemberment of their homeland.
 The province, ringed by snowy mountains and populated with great colonies of inky rooks that gave it its name (kos means blackbird in Serbian), is home to the Serbian Orthodox Church's most sacred sites.
 ''This is the spiritual center of the Serbian Church,'' said Sister Dobrila, a nun at the monastery of the Patriarchate of Pec, which was built around a richly frescoed Byzantine church from the 13th century that holds the tombs of Serbia's medieval archbishops. 
 She noted that western Kosovo, the site of the monastery, is called Metohija in Serbian, which means ''church land.'' ''It's sacred territory,'' she said.
 Even the birds, which swarm over Pristina to settle in its trees at night, are woven into the nationalist myth. According to Serbian folklore, the birds are the souls of the dead from the 14th century battle of Kosovo, in which a Serbian-led Christian army sought to stop the Ottoman advance -- an advance whose legacy is the nominally Muslim Albanian majority in the province today.
 The common analogy given to Americans, imperfect but pertinent in the emotions it stirs, is the notion of secession by Florida or New Mexico, if the Spanish-speaking populations in those states became a majority. The analogy is imperfect because few Americans, most of whom are already long separated from their cultural roots, have as deep an emotional connection to place as many Europeans have.
 That is why Europe, understanding the violence of such emotions, is not united behind the United Nations plan. Countries facing their own secessionist movements -- Spain with the Basques, Romania with ethnic Hungarians, and Russia with Chechens and peoples of other rebellious territories -- are skeptical of what they see as an American effort to jam a solution into place so Washington can turn its attention elsewhere.
 ''A forced solution is not a solution,'' said Marko Jaksic, head of the Democratic Party of Serbia and widely regarded as the most powerful politician in Mitrovica.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Pristina, ethnic Albanians pass graffiti saying ''No negotiation, self-determination'' that calls for independence from Belgrade.
 Many Serbian cultural shrines are in Kosovo. A monk prays in the Decani orthodox monastery south of Pec. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BOMBINGS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%) SERBIA (98%); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); ALBANIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



104 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 04, 2007

 BODY:


		Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	NONFICTION	1	1	14	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.	2	2	15	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.	3		1	BORN ON A BLUE DAY, by Daniel Tammet. (Free Press, $24.) A memoir by an autistic savant who can perform extraordinary mathematical calculations.	4	3	66	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.	5	7	25	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').	6*	5	9	PALESTINE PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.	7	4	3	ABOUT ALICE, by Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $14.95.) The New Yorker writer's recollections of his deceased wife.	8	8	17	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.	9*	6	18	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.	10		1	POWER, FAITH, and FANTASY, by Michael B. Oren. (Norton, $35.) A history of America's relations with the Middle East starting in 1776.	11	10	89	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to abortion and the falling birth rate.	12	9	94	 THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 	13	11	2	THE SECRET LIVES OF MEN AND WOMEN, by Frank Warren. (Regan, $21.95.) More postcard confessions from the PostSecret Project.	14		1	TOO SOON TO SAY GOODBYE, by Art Buchwald. (Random House, $17.95.) A humorous valediction from the syndicated columnist, who died in January 2007, also looks seriously at end-of-life issues.	15		1	GO LONG! by Jerry Rice with Brian Curtis. (Ballantine, $24.95.) How Rice, who is now a broadcaster, achieved success both on and off the football field.			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	NONFICTION	1	1	2	PLUM LOVIN', by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A mysterious man in Stephanie Plum's life helps her track down a matchmaker who skipped bail.	2	3	17	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.	3*	2	10	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.	4	4	3	THE HUNTERS, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer seeks the killers of a shady American diplomat murdered in Uruguay; follows from Griffin's ''Hostage.''	5	6	2	EXILE, by Richard North Patterson. (Holt, $26.) A San Francisco lawyer defends a Palestinian woman accused of assassinating the Israeli prime minister.	6		1	YOU SUCK, by Christopher Moore. (Morrow, $21.95.) A 19-year-old discovers that his girlfriend is a vampire -- and now, so is he.	7		1	THE SUSPECT, by John Lescroart. (Dutton, $26.95.) A lawyer defending a man accused of killing his wife is first drawn to him, but then begins to have doubts.	8		1	BAD BLOOD, by Linda Fairstein. (Scribner, $26.) The Manhattan assistant district attorney Alexandra Cooper discovers a link between a wealthy woman's murder and an explosion in a city water tunnel.	9	5	4	SHADOW DANCE, by Julie Garwood. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A businesswoman encounters danger and romance while investigating an ancient Scottish feud involving her family.	10		1	DUST, by Martha Grimes. (Viking, $25.95.) Investigating the murder of a wealthy young man leads Richard Jury of Scotland Yard to Henry James's home and to forgotten Nazi atrocities.	11	7	8	NEXT, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The author of ''Jurassic Park'' describes a not-too-distant future when genetic engineering runs amok.	12	10	7	HANNIBAL RISING, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) The childhood and adolescence of Hannibal Lecter shed light on how he became ''death's prodigy.''	13	9	12	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.	14	8	4	STALEMATE, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $26.) The forensic sculptor Eve Duncan travels to Colombia to identify a skull for a shady arms dealer who promises to help her discover who abducted her daughter.	15	11	7	THE BOLEYN INHERITANCE, by Philippa Gregory. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) Politics and treachery in the court of Henry VIII, narrated by three women, two of them his sometime wives.	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Jan. 20, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); MEN (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); DEATH & DYING (72%); SENTENCING (71%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); RELIGION (69%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); MARTIAL ARTS (61%); AUTISM (55%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); WRESTLING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); BILL O'REILLY (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



105 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 4798 words

HEADLINE: Brew Tube

BYLINE: By Lorne Manly. 
Lorne Manly is the chief media writer for The New York Times. This is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
For the past 26 years, Jim Schumacker has toiled for the marketing machine that is the Anheuser-Busch Companies, doing his part to stoke Americans' cravings for a cool Bud, or a Michelob, or a Bud Light. Eight of those years were spent overseeing the beer maker's creation of 30-second commercials, those gently mocking vignettes whose characters and catch-phrases often burrowed their ways into the nation's consciousness.
But lately, the man everyone calls Schu has been working on a different sort of content, programming for a new online entertainment network called Bud.TV. The network, which will make its debut on Monday at www.bud.tv, is the most ambitious and costly effort to date of a marketer creating Web content tailored to its own specifications. And Schumacker, a 54-year-old avuncular sort partial to earth-tone suede sandals and with a soul patch that sets off his thatch of wavy salt-and-pepper hair, is the project's creative shepherd. 
 One of the first shows that will appear on Bud.TV is called ''Finish Our Film,'' a mash-up of reality show and making-of-a-film documentary that will be produced by LivePlanet, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck's production company, best known for ''Project Greenlight.'' LivePlanet will shoot the first and last minutes of a short film and ask hopeful auteurs to plot out the middle. The person with the best treatment will be invited to Los Angeles, and every last moment of the moviemaking process (or ordeal) will be captured on digital tape.
 The concept as concocted by the writers, who have done their time at the likes of ''The Howard Stern Show,'' ''The Man Show'' and ''Da Ali G Show,'' would at first glance be perfectly suited for a beer commercial. The film opens in a strip club during a raucous bachelor party, where a groom-to-be named Steve suffers through a lap dance. But the party-hearty tone swiftly changes when the flirtatious dancer turns deadly serious, urgently warning her abashed customer that if he desires to live past the night, he'd better grab the note nestled in her cleavage. Steve does as he's told, and when the film resumes, he is seen beaten, blindfolded and bound to a chair, a firing squad taking aim.
 Strippers notwithstanding, much of the pitch for ''Finish Our Film'' subverts the expectations of a beer company -- it's closer to the mind games of the David Fincher movie ''The Game'' than the bacchanal of ''Bachelor Party.'' And Schumacker, whose official title is vice president of digital marketing and branded entertainment, and other executives at Anheuser-Busch want the rest of Bud.TV to do the same. Yes, the site will carry the high-concept comedy of ''Replaced by a Chimp,'' in which a great ape tries to do the job of its evolutionary betters, including dentist, car mechanic and ad executive. But Bud.TV is striving to be more than a repository for Budweiser ads and lighthearted, slightly mocking beer-commercial humor; Schumacker and his team are aiming to redefine what an online entertainment network and marketer-created content can mean in a short-attention-span world.
 Performers and writers from ''Saturday Night Live'' have signed on to create and star in recurring series. Kevin Spacey's production company, Trigger Street Films, has agreed to supply short movies. Satirical shows about celebrity entitlement and the news are on the schedule. The sports announcer Joe Buck may do a talk show from the back of a New York cab. And Schumacker has acquired a slickly produced science-fiction series, made in conjunction with the leading video-game maker Electronic Arts. Most of the shows will run from one to eight minutes, but some will be as long as a half-hour.
 Bud.TV may be a marketing venture at heart, but it is marketing sotto voce. The shows' plots won't revolve around the quest for the perfect beer and a beautiful woman to share it with. Characters won't declaim the virtues of Budweiser's freshness at every opportunity. The site won't be cluttered with banner ads. Anheuser-Busch executives are banking on a more subtle connection. Attach a brand name to something cool, something entertaining, and that elusive young man (and to a lesser extent, young woman) may check out Bud.TV's offerings again and again, send them along to friends, even take a stab at creating his own minifilm for the site. Cultivate that warm, fuzzy feeling about Budweiser, and the company may cement the loyalty of the existing customer, or better, woo the uncommitted or hard-to-reach drinker to a Bud Light or a Michelob or a Peels malt-liquor beverage.
 Bud.TV represents Anheuser-Busch's search for a toehold in a world where the traditional advertising model revolving around 30-second ads has been sideswiped by technological change and the proliferation of entertainment choices. The company, like almost every big marketer, is also trying to seize on the video-sharing democratization of YouTube, albeit on its own controlling terms.
 It's an expensive undertaking -- it's expected to cost more than $30 million in its first year -- and one that could be mistaken for creative hubris. Anheuser-Busch has created some of the more memorable 30-second ads, like the wisecracking lizards Frank and Louie, the ''I Love You, Man'' Man, the ''Whassup?'' guys and Ted Ferguson, the Bud Light daredevil who attempts feats of amazing inconsequentiality. But full-fledged original programming is something else entirely. Ultimately, Anheuser-Busch executives told me, they believe they have no choice but to take this leap of faith. ''If we don't start playing in this digital game now,'' said Tony Ponturo, Anheuser-Busch's vice president of global media and sports marketing and Schumacker's boss, ''we're going to be playing catch-up for a long time. And this is an industry that can't afford catch-up.''
 On the Tuesday before Christmas, Anheuser-Busch's digital adventure took Schumacker and his colleagues to the Venice Center for Peace With Justice and the Arts, a squat, faded yellow building bordering a skateboard park a few miles from the Pacific Ocean. During the day, the community center holds programs for special-needs kids. It also contains, on the second floor, the achingly hip office of Matt Piedmont.
 Piedmont has never worked for an advertiser before. A former writer for ''Saturday Night Live'' and a consulting producer for David Spade's ''Showbiz Show'' on Comedy Central, he spends most of his days creating TV pilots and movie projects, like the film with Spade and Ice Cube, tentatively titled ''Someone Stole My Weed.'' But Anheuser-Busch has brought him aboard to serve as executive producer over what will be one of Bud.TV's signature shows, ''Happy Hour.''
 Each weekday, at 4:55, ''Happy Hour'' will feature a new one- to four-minute episode of a rotating group of comic series. That week in December, Piedmont wrote eight episodes for most of the series, with help from Matt Murray, a current ''Saturday Night Live'' writer who gave up a chunk of his holiday hiatus to work on ''Happy Hour.''
 Describing the tone and image he was shooting for in these shows, Piedmont tossed out admiring references to the Coen brothers' ''Big Lebowski'' and the absurdist oeuvre of Wes Anderson (''Rushmore'' and ''The Royal Tenenbaums''). He plans for the silly/smart mix to have plenty of deadpan and observational humor, and he hopes to inject a visual sense a cut above typical Web programming, thanks to the use of two high-definition cameras (one a Steadicam) and high-end post-production. But these shows are still being done quick and on the cheap; the budget for all six of the ''Happy Hour'' shows comes in well under $1 million.
 As ''The Beat Goes On'' by the Young-Holt Unlimited played on the turntable, Piedmont ran through the concepts. ''Ice Vision and Chef'' follows in mockumentary style the comeback attempt of a defrocked superhero, Ice Vision, whose special powers went to his head and got him booted out of the Elite League. In ''Futureman,'' a technician at the Institute for Science and Research Institutional Institute makes contact with a man from the future who'd like to benefit today's world with his knowledge, only to display an appalling ignorance of anything important.
 Piedmont's comedy connections have paid off in casting. During his six years on ''Saturday Night Live,'' he wrote often for and with Tim Meadows, and the actor has agreed to play Ice Vision. ''I can relate to the character,'' Meadows said with a laugh when he dropped by the office for a meeting later that day. ''He once had it all and lost it.'' Chris Parnell and Kevin Farley, brother of the late Chris Farley, have filmed their ''Futureman'' episodes.
 Comic short-form videos are a staple of the Web these days, particularly at sites like Heavy.com, which cater to young men, and the rest of Bud.TV's lineup will be filled with such offerings, some with the requisite audience participation. ''Blow Stuff Up'' (although the actual title uses a more profane noun) allows the public to submit videos showing the objects they detest most and why they'd like to see those objects destroyed. And just as John Candy and Joe Flaherty did on SCTV's ''Farm Film Report,'' the show's professional pyrotechnicians will blow up those hated possessions ''real good.''
 Bud.TV's parody of reality competition shows, ''Fool's Gold,'' follows 12 contestants on a search for buried treasure in Death Valley, Calif. They'll quickly find millions of dollars in gold nuggets, but the bonanza comes with a catch: they can keep only what they can carry out of the desert, and they have to survive the physical and mental challenges set to them by a crusty old miner named Pick Ax Pete. ''Every day is a wacky death march,'' said Alex Keledjian of Omelet, the Los-Angeles-based agency that came up with the idea.
 But Schumacker insists that he doesn't want Bud.TV to be pigeonholed, and if one program demonstrates his ambitions for Bud.TV, it's the science-fiction series ''Afterworld.'' The series tracks an advertising executive on a business trip who wakes up in a country where hundreds of millions of people have suddenly gone missing; he then tries to make his way home to see if his wife and child are still alive. The mix of live action and animation (from Electronic Arts) runs 130 episodes; a new one will be doled out each weekday.
 ''People aren't expecting that from Bud.TV,'' Schumacker said. ''Which I think also is a benefit for us, long-term, to balance out that whole 'Oh, those guys are going to give us the comedy act' to 'Wow, they're going to have a broad range of programming.' ''
 The idea for Bud.TV came to Schumacker about two years ago, when he confronted at least 300 commissioned scripts for commercials piled on his office conference table. ''This is insane what we're doing,'' he told his colleagues. Only a handful would make it on to television. And some of these scripts, he saw, could be better if the characters were developed and the story lines were extended, perhaps on the Web, which a younger generation was increasingly turning to not only for information or blabbing with friends but also as an entertainment option.
 ''And I said, 'Let's start Bud.TV,' '' he recalled. ''We all laughed about it. And then I got up and went and got a soda, and when I came back I said, 'I'm serious.' '' His colleagues were skeptical. ''They're like, 'Good luck selling that,' '' he said.
 But Schumacker, who at the time was the head of creative development for the company, was not the only executive there thinking along those lines. Tim Murphy, the senior director of digital marketing, was hatching his own idea for an online network. And persuading their bosses was surprisingly easy. What drove Anheuser-Busch to build a site that will dwarf every corporate foray into digital entertainment that has come before was a combination of changing drinking and media habits. Not only is beer losing ground to wine and liquor, Anheuser-Busch's market share has slipped, and its flagship brand, Budweiser, saw its dollar sales tumble 7.5 percent in the 52 weeks ending Dec. 3, 2006, according to Information Resources Inc., which tracks supermarkets, drugstores and mass merchandise outlets (excluding Wal-Mart.) No turnaround will be possible without capturing the impressionable taste buds of people entering their prime drinking years. But that potential Bud lover is a particularly devilish person to reach and a difficult one to talk to, particularly these days, and particularly through traditional 30-second commercials. The TiVo generation revels in its newfound power to control the television-viewing experience, dictating the terms of how and when to watch their favorites in ways unfathomable only a decade ago. And increasingly, that means skipping right past the ads that marketers spend billions on every year to produce and put on the air.
 Anheuser-Busch's 30-second spots still work better than many, largely because of their crowd-pleasing humor. (Last year, in the three days after the Super Bowl, the beer maker's ads were viewed more than 21 million times on the Web.) But no advertiser is immune to the shifting media landscape, and connecting with tomorrow's beer drinker will become only tougher in the years ahead. Already Anheuser-Busch has slashed the percentage of its advertising budget devoted to network television, from 53.5 percent ($292.8 million of the total $547.1 million) in 2004 to 47.3 percent ($287.2 of $606.7 million) in 2005, according to TNS Media Intelligence, which tracks advertising spending. The company told investors in November that 2007 will see network television play an even smaller part in the beer maker's marketing. But shoving those ads to the Web, where the multitasking, short-attention-span crowd spends hours and hours, won't suffice.
 Even though Anheuser-Busch has no track record in the dicey world of content creation, TV networks in the past expressed interest in making some of the company's most popular characters -- Leon, the me-first athlete; the ''I Love You, Man'' Man, who would do and promise anything for a Bud Light; the talking lizards -- into sitcom stars. And while none of those flirtations with prime time led to anything, ''All those things start to click in your head,'' Ponturo, Schumacker's boss, told me. ''I guess we're sort of hoping that we catch a little bit of that magic with the stuff we're doing on Bud.TV.''
 Anheuser-Busch's desire to call the creative shots evokes the early days of television and radio. Marketers did not pay merely to have their products plugged relentlessly on the likes of ''The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show,'' during which Gracie would extol Carnation condensed milk while pouring herself a cup of coffee. They often owned the shows themselves and directed their ad agencies to produce them. Colgate had its ''Comedy Hour'' and Texaco its ''Star Theater'' (and a cross-dressing Milton Berle). But a burgeoning star structure and a unionizing industry jacked up production costs, and companies began souring on the joys of ownership. The quiz-show scandals of the late 1950s extinguished any lingering infatuation, with the exception of soap operas and a straggler or two. It was more economical for advertisers to buy time for their messages, and it proved to be a great business for the networks too.
 But those once-clear-cut divisions between network and marketer, between creator and financial backer, have begun to blur. As digital video recorders become a staple of the home-entertainment center, advertisers are embracing product placement to a degree they never did before, working their products into reality shows and, more recently, into the scripts of dramas and comedies. Every self-respecting advertising agency has started a division devoted to what is euphemistically called ''brand integration,'' the better to display their clients' wares and buff their images in projects they can exert more control over or own outright. And studios, like the television group at Warner Brothers, have begun divisions to develop Web, wireless and other programming with advertisers.
 Office Max created a reality show about preteens preparing for high school that was shown on ABC Family. Unilever turned its Axe body spray into a special for MTV called ''Game Killers.'' PepsiCo financed ''First Descent,'' a documentary about snowboarders (produced by LivePlanet), convinced that Mountain Dew embodies the live-life-to-the-fullest ethos of the featured snowboarders. And the Crispin, Porter & Bogusky ad agency is shopping a movie treatment based on the big-headed King mascot it created for Burger King, the one that pops up in the most unsettling places (like someone's bed) to serve a piping-hot sandwich.
 Anheuser-Busch has plastered its products into shows like ''Entourage'' and developed elaborate marketing tie-ins with movies like ''Wedding Crashers.'' Like most marketers, however, it has so far refrained from jumping into the television- or movie-production business (except for its sports-production unit, which televises events like St. Louis Cardinals baseball games), dissuaded by the cost and the craziness of Hollywood.
 Web content, however, is not as expensive to assemble as television shows or movies, making it an attractive place to experiment. And viewers' acceptance of the rawness of Web video, in contrast to expectations of perfectly executed television programming, gives Bud.TV executives room to tinker that network executives don't enjoy. The promise of control, a concept woven into the company's culture, was also deeply appealing and is something Anheuser-Busch would not have if it followed the more traditional route of running its online programs on third-party Web sites or working its products into someone else's creation.
 ''It's their own sandbox,'' says Joseph Jaffe, the author of ''Life After the 30-Second Spot.'' ''And because it's their own sandbox, they can make their own rules.''
 In an Anheuser-Busch conference room in St. Louis at the end of last November, Ponturo placed a DVD into the player, and the first episode of ''Truly Famous'' began to unfold. The show, a satirical look at celebrity culture, tags along reality-style with its faux Spanish star, dubbed Crisanto, who comes complete with agent, publicist, personal assistant and bodyguard. The entourage sweeps into Los Angeles establishments catering to the rich and pampered and proceeds to see how much swag and sycophantic behavior they can attract. Hilarity, and crowds, ensue. ''We actually had real paparazzi chasing the fake paparazzi,'' said Todd Brandes, a DDB Chicago executive who has worked with Anheuser-Busch for nearly a decade.
 In this episode, Crisanto and company arrive at a hair salon on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills. The staff scurries to pay homage to the celebrity among them, even though they're clueless about who he is. Crisanto receives not only a free haircut (worth hundreds of dollars), but his posse gets lunch ($28 tuna-fish sandwiches) and wine on the house.
 ''Would it be too crass to have them ask for Bud or Bud Light?'' Ponturo asked.
 Schumacker pondered the question. ''In Beverly Hills, that probably wouldn't work.'' He added, ''We have to be careful we're not promoting other alcoholic drinks.'' Perhaps a request for Peels, the fruit-flavored malt beverage aimed at a more upscale audience, would make creative sense.
 ''Is that going to hurt us?'' asked David Rolfe, the lead DDB Chicago executive on the Bud.TV account, before answering the question himself. ''As long as the entertainment value is there, customers won't mind.''
 The philosophical argument continued, as the same team members often took both sides of the debate as they struggled to make policy. ''We want to make sure we're not forcing the product,'' Schumacker said.
 ''But the same time not be scared to promote it,'' Rolfe added.
 Ponturo then issued his edict. ''Shoot the blatant but well-done product shot,'' he said. ''But if it doesn't work, leave it on the cutting-room floor.''
 Both Ponturo and Schumacker understand that pounding Anheuser-Busch products into programming could make Bud.TV seem like nothing more than a propaganda machine. Traditional media is the place for obvious commercialization. ''On the entertainment side, you're better to err on the side of subtlety,'' Ponturo said. As it turns out, the first four episodes of ''Truly Famous'' will carry no product placement.
 A similar restrained philosophy also holds for the style of humor -- there may be bleeped-out cursing, but no insulting, gratuitous or ''Jackass''-style humor will be tolerated. ''We want to be edgy, we want to be fun and interesting, but I really want some class to it,'' Ponturo said. ''At the end of the day,'' he added, ''we're a public company whose ultimate mission is to sell a whole lot of beer. So we don't want to put ourselves at risk for the wrong reasons.''
 Anheuser-Busch's very entry into online entertainment, however, invites confrontations, and some obvious adversaries have already made their displeasure known. In October, 60 health, safety and child-protection organizations urged the celebrities associated with Bud.TV -- Affleck, Damon, Spacey, Vince Vaughn, whose ''Wild West Comedy Tour'' will be featured -- to insist that Anheuser-Busch install stringent age-verification measures. But that demand seemed almost beside the point, as it was coupled with a plea for the stars to reconsider their participation altogether.
 Any utopian dreams for an Internet free of commercialization may have been dashed years ago, but efforts by beer, wine and liquor companies still touch a raw nerve. ''It's not as if Colgate-Palmolive is undertaking the initiative,'' says David Jernigan, the executive director of the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth at Georgetown University. ''We're not talking dish soap. We're talking about the No. 1 drug problem of kids.''
 The Internet, with no government oversight and leaky parental controls, only compounds the problems. Self-imposed age-verification measures are almost laughable in their naivete. Most ask visitors if they are of age, or ratcheting up the level of difficulty, request people to punch in their dates of birth to ensure they meet the qualifications. All that's needed to get around that more advanced system are some basic math skills and a desire to sneak past the virtual bouncer. Anheuser-Busch, to its credit, will have one of the smarter gatekeepers keeping watch over Bud.TV. It has bought an identity-verification system used by casinos and banks, Aristotle's Integrity, which checks the names and Zip codes against driver's licenses and other public records.
 Yet once vetted, there's nothing to stop Bud.TV viewers from sharing the goodies with under-age friends, relatives or complete strangers on YouTube. Anheuser-Busch executives understand this viral loophole. With its inherent pass-it-on nature, Web video demands to be shared. Not only does it provide street cred; it's also an inexpensive way to get the word out. And the Bud.TV logo will be emblazoned on every shared video.
 But the YouTube model has it limits as far as Bud.TV executives are concerned. When it comes to the buzz phrase of the media moment -- ''user-generated content'' -- they think they have crafted a strategy to rein in some of the overexuberance that has frustrated and even embarrassed several advertisers. Last spring, Chevrolet invited people to create their own video spots for its Tahoe sport-utility vehicle. Thirty thousand people submitted entries during the four-week contest, but the few ads that subverted Chevrolet's intention by linking the Tahoe to global warming and sexual inadequacy garnered the bulk of the headlines. Marketing experts argue that it's a small price to pay for connecting with today's more skeptical, harder-to-reach consumers, and they urge companies to relinquish control and learn to love it. Anheuser-Busch executives do not agree. ''I think YouTube does what it does just fine,'' Schumacker said, adding, ''I don't want to be YouTube.''
 So Anheuser-Busch will lend a guiding hand, offering freedom with a catch. For its ''Real Men of Genius'' contest, which it is working on with JibJab, an online video site lauded for its singing wrap-ups of the year in politics, Bud.TV will provide plenty of components for people to build their ads around, including audio tracks and filmed openings and endings. The ads, parodies of 1980s advertising and power ballads (a la Night Ranger's ''Sister Christian''), mock-salute the shlubs of America, like Mr. Underwear Inspector No. 12 and Mr. Really Bad Toupee Wearer. The creator of the best ad will get to make an actual Bud Light commercial.
 ''If 2006 was the year of user-generated content, in 2007 you'll see elevated production levels,'' said Gregg Spiridellis, co-founder of JibJab. ''We call it the coloring book versus the canvas.''
 Bud.TV still represents just a tiny fraction of Anheuser-Busch's billion-dollar-plus annual marketing budget, more than $600 million of which will be spent on traditional advertising in 2007, but it's likely to cost a lot more than anticipated, and its benefits will be difficult to assess. Officially, Anheuser-Busch has budgeted more than $30 million for the start-up costs and the first year of operations of the site, but Ponturo told me that figure is likely to pass $40 million by the time 2007 comes to a close. 
 The Web site's technological demands have proved costlier than planned, and Bud.TV's voracious appetite for new content -- at least 15 new segments will be posted each week -- has eaten through expectations and forced Schumacker and his team to decide as they go just how much they are willing to spend on programming. The development and production tally for the first three shows Bud.TV commissioned (''Truly Famous,'' ''Replaced by a Chimp'' and a makeover show for clueless Casanovas called ''What Girls Want'') came in around $2 million, averaging between $20,000 and $25,000 a minute. At that rate, Ponturo told me, the annual budget would be sapped in a matter of months. ''You can let the ball of yarn get away from you very fast,'' Ponturo said. The later shows, he added, are costing a more affordable $6,000 a minute.
 Beyond keeping a lid on programming costs, Bud.TV executives will also deal with some of the pit-of-the-stomach dread that comes with the job description of any network executive: the tyranny of ratings. If after a year, between two million and three million people between the ages of 21 and 34 are visiting each month, ''It would put us in high cotton,'' Ponturo said. (An audience of that size would tower over what sites like Heavy.com and Break.com see.) But if that traffic figure is stalled in the mid-six-figures, ''then I would think that we've missed the mark,'' he said.
 A middling performance, however, and the question of failure or success becomes a tougher call. Some positive publicity and a smattering of blog buzz may be all that's needed to keep Anheuser-Busch pouring tens of millions of dollars a year into Bud.TV. Because ultimately, proving that an online entertainment network helps the company sell more beer falls into the realm of the subjective.
 ''It's tough to build a business plan,'' Ponturo said with exquisite understatement. ''Marketers don't always have to prove two plus two equals four. You have to go sometimes with your instincts and your gut judgment and your years of experience.''
 And there's even the hope that Bud.TV could create revenue streams of its own. Ponturo, Schumacker and their colleagues talk about Bud.TV serving as an incubator for television, DVD or perhaps film. While much won't translate, ''Afterworld'' and some of the ''Happy Hour'' shows just might make the jump. And if the shows end up having a life outside of Bud.TV, whether on Comedy Central, Spike TV or as DVD originals, Anheuser-Busch, playing the role of producer, will get a cut of the back end.
 In this topsy-turvy world of media and entertainment, where marketers play programmer, studios play ad agency and viewers play possum when traditional ads come on television, one other twist is in the offing. If Bud.TV becomes a virtual hangout for young men, Anheuser-Busch may well start selling advertising to other companies who crave pushing their marketing messages in front of this fickle audience. That debate is already taking place within Anheuser-Busch. At first, Schumacker itched to market Bud.TV. But on further reflection, he realized that that would negate the streamlined, almost minimalist design of the site. After all, Schumacker told me, he didn't want Bud.TV to look like it was selling out.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Future Spot: Kevin Farley on the set of ''Futureman,'' one of a group of new Web-only comedy series appearing on Bud.TV.
Product Displacement: Filming 'Finish Our Film. Like all series on Bud.TV, ''Finish Our Film'' tries to bring cool to Anheuser-Busch without ever (or rarely) mentioning beer.
 The Viral Corporation: Bud.TV shows like Futureman are purpose-built to be passed around the Web like any YouTube video, albeit bearing a Bud.TV logo. (Photographs by Mark Peterson/Redux, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (89%); BREWERIES (89%); FILM (87%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); DANCERS (75%); MOVIE REVIEWS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (66%) Computers and the Internet; Television; Beer; Advertising and Marketing; Alcoholic Beverages

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc; Bud.TV (Web Site)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (93%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (93%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (50%); HOWARD STERN (50%) Jim Schumacher

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



106 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: A Cleaner New Jersey

BYLINE: By Annette Catino. 
Annette Catino is the president and chief executive of a managed care company.

DATELINE: Piscataway 

 BODY:
THE State Legislature and Gov. Jon Corzine are having a vigorous debate about how to reduce property taxes in New Jersey. They are spending a great deal of time talking about pension reform and municipal consolidation. These are certainly important issues, but one cause of New Jersey's sky-high taxes -- namely waste, fraud and abuse by public officials -- is barely being discussed. And that should change.
 Whether it is richly compensated public school officials, scandals at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey or local officials accepting bribes to award contracts to favored vendors, there is a preponderance of slick actors at all levels of government in this state. 
For example, Ronald Corn, the former mayor of Hainesport, was sentenced to five years in prison for diverting more than $300,000 to a secret ''mayor's account.'' And a former assistant administrator with the Perth Amboy housing authority pled guilty to embezzling more than $400,000 in federal housing subsidies. While many of these lapses in judgment have led to resignations and even prison terms, the ensuing scandals have clearly increased the cost of government services. 
 But there is an answer. In 2002, after the implosion of Enron, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to force more transparency at publicly traded companies. Corporations are now required to disclose executive compensation fully. In addition, the law establishes standards for board members and external auditors. For example, the majority of the board must be independent of the company, and the audit committee must be comprised exclusively of independent directors. Companies are also required to establish and make public internal controls. Sarbanes-Oxley has instituted stiff penalties for improper action and, perhaps most important, full accountability for senior executives.
 While no one pretends that the scandals that led to the creation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will never happen again, this new law has helped restore investor confidence and executive responsibility. Good corporate governance is leading to better-run companies. 
 This same law could provide an answer for New Jersey's government, and the Legislature should adopt a similar law for all levels of government and all public authorities in the state. Such action would make New Jersey one of the first states in the nation to adopt these strong standards.
 At their core, the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley are intended to protect an investor's capital. New Jersey residents are the investors in their government and their taxes are the capital that is too often being misused. Good governance will ultimately lead to good government. 
 Establishing rules similar to Sarbanes-Oxley in New Jersey can both help to restore the public's confidence in government and instill a higher level of transparency and accountability for those in the public sector. Just because New Jersey has the highest per capita income in the nation does not mean it should necessarily have the highest property taxes in the nation. No doubt, waste and abuse are contributing to this dubious tax ranking. A more accountable government would also be a more efficient one. 
 Fortunately, Governor Corzine is the ideal person to bring about these changes. As a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs, he can speak to the value of Sarbanes-Oxley in the corporate world. As a candidate and now as governor he has pushed for a more transparent, corruption-free government.
 Mr. Corzine should set a new benchmark, not just for New Jersey but for government entities throughout the country. He should adopt Sarbanes-Oxley standards for the state's boards, commissions and authorities and then push county and municipal governments and school boards to adopt the same standards.
 Just as corporations must now do, the state should make salaries, benefits (including pensions) and leave time for senior public officials available to the public. Moreover, these officials would have to certify that budget expenditures are in accordance with all laws and regulations, thereby taking legal responsibility if funds have been used inappropriately.
 This will not eliminate all corruption, but real progress will be made. And in the process, we might just see a little tax relief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (87%); AUDITS (86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (86%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (86%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); ETHICS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); BRIBERY (75%); SENTENCING (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); DENTISTRY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (63%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (56%) Politics and Government; Ethics; Bribery; Frauds and Swindling; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (71%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%) Annette Catino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



107 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Smoke Signals

BYLINE: By Peter M. Iwanowicz. 
Peter M. Iwanowicz is the vice president of the American Lung Association of New York State.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
NOW that Gov. Eliot Spitzer is in office, the makers of outdoor wood-fired boilers better listen up. Their days of selling their product without a care about the emissions they belch out may be numbered. 
 In 2005, Mr. Spitzer, who was attorney general, issued a report that detailed the pollution that these boilers emit and their attendant health effects. In addition, New York and other states petitioned the United States Environmental Protection Agency to set air emission standards for these particularly noxious devices.
Last week, the agency announced, some say with a wink and a nod, that under a voluntary program, makers of wood-fired boilers would begin offering for sale boilers that emit fewer pollutants. The agency's response was woefully inadequate. Everyone knows that a voluntary program has no teeth. 
 The good news is that a number of towns and counties in New York have already banned these devices. And last year, a bill to create state emission standards began winding its way through the legislative process. While the makers of these boilers were able to kill the bill in the State Senate, their victory is sure to be short-lived.
 As any power plant owner can attest, when Eliot Spitzer says he will use the tools at his disposal to reduce air pollution that causes asthma attacks, he means it. And the governor does not need a permission slip from the State Legislature to act on outdoor stove emissions. He can and should tell his environmental nominee, Alexander ''Pete'' Grannis, to propose the regulations this year. 
 By doing this, Governor Spitzer can build on New York's history of setting the tone for regulations that cover the entire Northeast. Already Connecticut and Vermont have enacted strict regulations on where boilers can be used. The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection even warns potential buyers that these devices are very likely to violate state smoke and odor standards; even when operated properly. But like New York, other states in the region are dealing with hundreds of complaints and have yet to establish boiler emission limits. 
 Outdoor wood-burning boilers are more common in rural areas, but they are frequently popping up in suburbs, with an estimated 150,000 in use nationwide. They look like large outhouses or tool sheds with 12-foot smokestacks and burn wood to create hot water to heat houses and even pools and hot tubs. In the winter, these boilers run constantly, engulfing communities in smoke and prompting emergency calls to fire departments.
 The smoke that these boilers produce is as bad as it looks and smells. Besides causing breathing difficulties and eye, nose and throat irritations, the smoke contains fine particles that, in turn, have been linked to premature death in older people, lung cancer, second heart attacks in those with cardiovascular disease, worsening of asthma and complications for diabetes patients. Fine particle pollution is responsible for the death of 50,000 Americans every year. The toxicity increases if homeowners use their boilers to dispose of garbage or other household waste. 
 Outdoor wood-fired boilers have grown in popularity over the past several years. Many owners see them as sustainable sources of fuel and an answer to the ever-increasing cost of oil. But the environmental costs of boilers, which pump out 12 times the fine particle pollution of a certified wood stove, don't justify their owners' economic savings. If this smoke causes an asthma attack and the person suffering is hospitalized, everyone will pay for the cost of treatment. 
 The arrival of these outdoor boilers is causing a headache for local officials as residents worry about the impact they will have on their health, quality of life and property values. Last month, Steve Levy, Suffolk County executive, vetoed a bill that would have banned outdoor boilers within 1,000 feet of any structure. He said that he didn't think the legislation was protective enough. 
 But why pick on the little guy when there are so many other threats to air pollution? Because like indoor wood stoves, everything from the largest smokestacks to consumer products like paint have been regulated. Taken in the aggregate the so-called little guy can end up being a big source of emissions -- consider that a lawn mower can produce the same emissions in one hour as 50 cars driving 20 miles. 
 In New York State, more than 90 percent of the population lives in counties that fail to meet federal health standards for air quality. Whether it is warm weather ozone or year-round fine particle pollution, the threat to public health that already exists cannot afford the added injury caused by an influx of outdoor wood-burning boilers. 
 New York must take a lead in developing emissions measuring for these boilers and establish pollution limits for them. Rules should also govern where these boilers can be situated and should allow local governments to enact tougher standards, including an outright ban.
 The problem is national in scope and begs for a federal solution. The only way we are going to get Environmental Protection Agency officials to act with force is for Governor Spitzer to show them how to do it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ASTHMA (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); CANCER (61%); HEART DISEASE (61%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); DIABETES (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); LUNG CANCER (50%) Air Pollution; Boilers; Law and Legislation; Asthma

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Peter M Iwanowicz

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



108 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Smoke Signals

BYLINE: By Peter M. Iwanowicz. 
Peter M. Iwanowicz is the vice president of the American Lung Association of New York State.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
NOW that Gov. Eliot Spitzer is in office, the makers of outdoor wood-fired boilers better listen up. Their days of selling their product without a care about the emissions they belch out may be numbered. 
 In 2005, Mr. Spitzer, who was attorney general, issued a report that detailed the pollution that these boilers emit and their attendant health effects. In addition, New York and other states petitioned the United States Environmental Protection Agency to set air emission standards for these particularly noxious devices.
Last week, the agency announced, some say with a wink and a nod, that under a voluntary program, makers of wood-fired boilers would begin offering for sale boilers that emit fewer pollutants. The agency's response was woefully inadequate. Everyone knows that a voluntary program has no teeth. 
 The good news is that a number of towns and counties in New York have already banned these devices. And last year, a bill to create state emission standards began winding its way through the legislative process. While the makers of these boilers were able to kill the bill in the State Senate, their victory is sure to be short-lived.
 As any power plant owner can attest, when Eliot Spitzer says he will use the tools at his disposal to reduce air pollution that causes asthma attacks, he means it. And the governor does not need a permission slip from the State Legislature to act on outdoor stove emissions. He can and should tell his environmental nominee, Alexander ''Pete'' Grannis, to propose the regulations this year. 
 By doing this, Governor Spitzer can build on New York's history of setting the tone for regulations that cover the entire Northeast. Already Connecticut and Vermont have enacted strict regulations on where boilers can be used. The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection even warns potential buyers that these devices are very likely to violate state smoke and odor standards; even when operated properly. But like New York, other states in the region are dealing with hundreds of complaints and have yet to establish boiler emission limits. 
 Outdoor wood-burning boilers are more common in rural areas, but they are frequently popping up in suburbs, with an estimated 150,000 in use nationwide. They look like large outhouses or tool sheds with 12-foot smokestacks and burn wood to create hot water to heat houses and even pools and hot tubs. In the winter, these boilers run constantly, engulfing communities in smoke and prompting emergency calls to fire departments.
 The smoke that these boilers produce is as bad as it looks and smells. Besides causing breathing difficulties and eye, nose and throat irritations, the smoke contains fine particles that, in turn, have been linked to premature death in older people, lung cancer, second heart attacks in those with cardiovascular disease, worsening of asthma and complications for diabetes patients. Fine particle pollution is responsible for the death of 50,000 Americans every year. The toxicity increases if homeowners use their boilers to dispose of garbage or other household waste. 
 Outdoor wood-fired boilers have grown in popularity over the past several years. Many owners see them as sustainable sources of fuel and an answer to the ever-increasing cost of oil. But the environmental costs of boilers, which pump out 12 times the fine particle pollution of a certified wood stove, don't justify their owners' economic savings. If this smoke causes an asthma attack and the person suffering is hospitalized, everyone will pay for the cost of treatment. 
 The arrival of these outdoor boilers is causing a headache for local officials as residents worry about the impact they will have on their health, quality of life and property values. Last month, Steve Levy, Suffolk County executive, vetoed a bill that would have banned outdoor boilers within 1,000 feet of any structure. He said that he didn't think the legislation was protective enough. 
 But why pick on the little guy when there are so many other threats to air pollution? Because like indoor wood stoves, everything from the largest smokestacks to consumer products like paint have been regulated. Taken in the aggregate the so-called little guy can end up being a big source of emissions -- consider that a lawn mower can produce the same emissions in one hour as 50 cars driving 20 miles. 
 In New York State, more than 90 percent of the population lives in counties that fail to meet federal health standards for air quality. Whether it is warm weather ozone or year-round fine particle pollution, the threat to public health that already exists cannot afford the added injury caused by an influx of outdoor wood-burning boilers. 
 New York must take a lead in developing emissions measuring for these boilers and establish pollution limits for them. Rules should also govern where these boilers can be situated and should allow local governments to enact tougher standards, including an outright ban.
 The problem is national in scope and begs for a federal solution. The only way we are going to get Environmental Protection Agency officials to act with force is for Governor Spitzer to show them how to do it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ASTHMA (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); CANCER (61%); HEART DISEASE (61%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); DIABETES (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); LUNG CANCER (50%) Air Pollution; Boilers; Law and Legislation; Asthma

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Peter M Iwanowicz

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



109 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FARLEY, JAMES B. (JIM)

 BODY:
 FARLEY--James B. (Jim) died peacefully after a prolonged illness in Gulf Stream, Florida on January 20, 2007. Jim was a charismatic and highly revered leader, a loving husband, a great father, a friend to many and an avid golfer. He will be missed. Jim was born on November 1, 1930 in Pittsburgh, PA where he attended Duquesne University (BS) and Case Western Reserve University (MBA) and spent the first 10 years of his career at US Steel. 
The next chapter in his career was a highly successful 25 years in consulting with Booz, Allen & Hamilton where he made major contributions as he progressed up the ranks to Chairman and CEO. In 1988 Jim joined MONY Life insurance Company where he held the position of Chairman and CEO until 1993 and retained a seat on the Board until 2003. He also was on the Board of Directors for Harrahs Entertainment, Ashland Oil, Inc., First Boston Corp., Crum and Forster Foundation, and Holiday Corp. He was also a Trustee for the Congressional Committee for Economic Development and The Conference Board and was an Ellis Island Honoree as one of 100 Outstanding Americans. A Research chair was established in his honor by Booz, Allen, & Hamilton at the JL Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. He was the beloved husband of Mary W. Farley, who survives him; the father of James Farley, Mickey Farley-Austin, Connie O'Connor, and Scott Farley; the father-in-law of Julia Farley, Robin Austin, Tim O'Connor, and Susan Farley; the grandfather of Conor Farley, Katie O'Connor, Erin Farley, Kelly O'Connor, Jamie Austin, Michael O'Connor, Sean O'Connor and Patrick Farley; the brother of Bernie Carroll, Roseanne Sansoni; the brother-in-law to Darlene and Andy Hallam and uncle to many nieces and nephews. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated on Friday, February 9 at 11:00 a.m. at St Vincent Ferrer Catholic Church, 840 George Bush Blvd. in Delray Beach, FL 33483. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to: Bethesda Memorial Hospital Heart Institute, 2815 South Seacrest Blvd. in Boynton Beach, FL, 33435. Lorne & Sons Funeral Home, Delray Beach, Florida. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AXA FINANCIAL INC (70%); HOLIDAY CORP (69%); ASHLAND INC (69%); BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (57%); MONY LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%)

TICKER: ASH (NYSE) (69%); BAH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (69%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: SEAN M O'CONNOR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



110 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: The Operator

BYLINE: By RICK PERLSTEIN. 
Rick Perlstein is the author of ''Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus.''

 BODY:
WHAT A PARTY!
 My Life Among Democrats:
 Presidents, Candidates, Donors, Activists,
 Alligators, and Other Wild Animals.
 By Terry McAuliffe with Steve Kettmann.
 Illustrated. 406 pp. Thomas Dunne Books/
 St. Martin's Press. $24.95.
I was standing there having a casual conversation with King Juan Carlos, my occasional hunting partner, when we were joined by Blair and his charming, outspoken wife, Cherie, and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi,'' Terry McAuliffe, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee and chairman of Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign, writes in his memoir, ''What a Party!'' It comes somewhat after ''I sat at the president's table near Clinton, who was between Elizabeth Taylor and Sophia Loren. ... Dorothy was at another table sitting between Muhammad Ali and Jack Nicholson''; but before ''Hillary saw Dorothy'' -- McAuliffe's wife -- ''and invited the entire family down to Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic to stay at Julio Iglesias's spectacular oceanfront estate.'' 
 But don't get Terry wrong. ''I have always been oblivious to celebrity.'' 
 McAuliffe always seems to have people telling him things like: ''We cannot let them fail on this project. I'll commit up to 10 million.'' Or: ''Whatever you're short, I'll write the difference.'' And: ''Terry, how big does this number have to be? I'll write it right now.'' But what McAuliffe would really have you know is that he's just a big, sloppy Irish mutt of a guy. Like the time, delighting the party faithful at a fund-raiser at the MCI Center in Washington in 2000, at which many guests paid $25,000 a table -- dress code: bluejeans; bill of fare: barbecue -- he read out the menu of the Republican black-tie reception the month before: ''Karnut and colusuri rices with wheatberry, whatever all that is. ... In Syracuse, New York, where I grew up, Millie McAuliffe never made this kind of food.'' 
 A month and a chapter later he's in Los Angeles saving the financially floundering Democratic National Convention, somehow having made his peace with haute cuisine: ''That first night I went to dinner at Spago. ... I knew we would just have to find a way to raise $10 million.''
 At least McAuliffe -- and his co-author, Steve Kettmann, Jose Canseco's collaborator on ''Juiced'' -- come by their blarneyful tone honestly: telling stories with a drink in his hand has made Terry what he is today. His career as a Democratic fund-raiser (minus the cocktails) started when he was 6, he tells us, when his father, treasurer of the Onondaga County Democratic Party, had him work the door at the party's annual dinner. (''Terry, if they don't give you the money, they don't get in the door. No exceptions.'') It's all a bit of a blur from then on (''I was in politics to make a difference and to fight for people like folks back in Syracuse. ... That was why I buckled down and decided it was time to make some money. I knew that without financial independence I would be a slave to fate''). There are, however, six and a half pages on a memorable trip to Camp David with Matt Damon and Ben Affleck (there's bowling!), and three on a delightful afternoon of golf with the president at the Army-Navy Club. ''To me, golfing with the president was a great chance to get to know the man Bill Clinton,'' that particular yarn concludes. Clinton ''supporters'' -- Terryspeak for ''donors'' -- learned that, too; so many were able to join the president's foursomes, Time once reported, that the joke became, ''McAuliffe runs Clinton's pro shop.''
 McAuliffe taught Democrats that to win they had to learn to play with the billionaires. But there were, as the economists say, ''opportunity costs.'' In 400 pages of blow-by-blow, one momentous event passes with barely a whisper: the 2002 elections. Some hoped that President Bush's ties to Enron would make 2002 a Democratic year. Instead, Democrats lost the Senate. As the televised face of the party, McAuliffe got in some hard punches on Enron, but Republicans replied that he himself had made an $18 million profit from a mere $100,000 investment in the controversial communications company Global Crossing. 
 Sour grapes, McAuliffe insists, quoting his comeback to Sean Hannity: ''What are you, jealous or something? ... It was a great company.''
 Some would disagree -- pointing to the ugly way the chairman, Gary Winnick, later misled Global Crossing's stakeholders about its financial health, pauperizing them from a palatial office known, internally, as the Oval Office (perhaps in honor of the $1 million he gave to Bill Clinton's presidential library). McAuliffe settles that score by writing, ''The S.E.C. ruled after a four-year investigation that nobody had committed any wrongdoing at Global Crossing.'' (A Justice Department inquiry was also dropped without charges.) You might say the more proximate wrongdoing was going on TV in an election year in which corporate greed was the Democrats' best issue and saying a company that had only not quite swindled millions of pensioners and individual investors was ''great'' -- and then being so un-self-aware as to brag about it in your memoir. 
 The two Democrats most at ease around rich businessmen also happened to be the party's most effective economic populists: Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson. They were so at ease, in fact, they did what today's ''business friendly'' Democrats do not: demand, in no uncertain terms and to their faces, that they cease antisocial corporate practices. Democrats certainly owe a debt of gratitude to McAuliffe. He retired the national committee's $18 million debt, built a gleaming new headquarters, updated the party's technological infrastructure. But he also served them a debt in the process: conveying to Democrats that the road to success lies in forgetting that populist skill. 
 By his own account, his friends are always selfless, whether it's Dick Gephardt driving four hours to pick out just the right puppy for the McAuliffe kids or a strip-mall builder doing a financial favor for the Democrats (''Terry, we've got to do this for the sake of the party''). By his own account, too, McAuliffe is always a hero: he saves the Democratic Party (several times); he even saves a small, struggling independent bank (it's a wonderful life). But in real life there's always a cost, and the political effects of McAuliffe's rehabilitation of the Democrats among the wealthy may be nugatory. 
 Shortly after the disappointing 2004 elections, he's talking strategy ''with the president and Hillary.'' All agreed the Republicans won because ''they inflamed their strong supporters with emotional talk of abortion and gay marriage.'' But this is simply not true as an analysis of that campaign. Bush's performance among heavy churchgoers was no different in 2000 and 2004. The extra margin that gave him a popular majority, his first, consisted of voters who made more than $100,000 a year. Those voters made up 15 percent of the electorate in 2000, and 54 percent of them voted for Bush; in 2004, at 18 percent of the electorate, 58 percent of them supported Bush. Rich people may have given more than they ever had to the Democrats, but they didn't vote more for Democrats; they voted less. And the money they kicked in, whatever else it did, wasn't successful in disseminating a message convincing enough to people making under $100,000 to make up the gap.
 ''People ask me all the time what the trick to fund-raising is. They always want to hear that there is some secret. But it's simple enough, and I'll spell it out in black and white: As a fund-raiser you're selling belief. You're selling vision. You're selling hope. You're selling dreams.'' The question is: what dreams, and whose? You won't find that difficult discussion here. But did you know that Kirk Douglas is ''just like he is in all his movies''?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry McAuliffe with President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton at a fund-raiser in Syracuse, N.Y., in 1999. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); CELEBRITIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%) Rick Perlstein; Terry Mcauliffe; Steven Kettmann

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); ITALY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



111 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Bush's 2008 Budget Would Raise Some Medicare Premiums

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
More and more Medicare beneficiaries would have to pay higher premiums for coverage of prescription drugs and doctors' services under President Bush's 2008 budget, to be unveiled on Monday.
 Single people with annual incomes over $80,000 and married couples with incomes over $160,000 already have to pay higher premiums for the part of Medicare that covers doctors' services. The income thresholds rise with inflation.
Budget documents show that Mr. Bush will propose a similar surcharge on premiums for Medicare's new prescription drug benefit. In addition, the president will ask Congress to ''eliminate annual indexing of income thresholds,'' so that more people would eventually have to pay the higher premiums. 
 The proposal, expected to raise $10 billion over the next five years, is one of many advanced by Mr. Bush in a $2.8 trillion budget that aims to eliminate the deficit by 2012.
 In his budget request, Mr. Bush expresses alarm about what he calls ''the unsustainable growth of federal entitlement programs,'' and he proposes savings in Medicare and Medicaid that far surpass what he or any other president has sought.
 The president contends that he can make the rule changes without any action by Congress. But Congress could try to block some or all of the changes.
 Democrats immediately denounced the proposals. ''This is exactly the wrong approach,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who cited the proposals as evidence of what she called ''the president's misplaced priorities.''
 Many Republicans like the idea of an ''income-related premium,'' saying affluent beneficiaries can afford to pay a larger share of Medicare's costs. Democrats are divided. Some see it as a progressive way to finance the program. But others say it is fundamentally at odds with the idea of social insurance, and they fear that it could prompt some wealthy people to leave Medicare.
 Administration officials said earlier this week that Mr. Bush would ask Congress to squeeze more than $70 billion from Medicare and Medicaid over five years. But the budget documents show that the actual figure is much larger: $101.5 billion of savings over five years.
 The president's budget includes legislative proposals that would save $78.6 billion over the next five years -- $65.6 billion in Medicare and $13 billion in Medicaid.
 In addition, the budget documents say that Mr. Bush will propose changes in federal regulations to save $22.9 billion more over the next five years: $10.2 billion in Medicare and $12.7 billion in Medicaid. 
 Lobbyists for hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers plan a huge campaign to kill the president's proposals, which they say will ultimately harm beneficiaries.
 Mr. Bush said his proposals would just slow the programs' growth. ''Our budget reduces Medicare's average annual growth rate over five years to 5.6 percent, from 6.5 percent,'' Mr. Bush said, while Medicaid would grow 7.1 percent a year, instead of 7.3 percent.
 In the past, Mr. Bush has proposed trimming Medicare payments to health care providers for a few years, but now he proposes to make the cutbacks permanent, so that hospitals and nursing homes would never receive a full update for inflation. 
 For the Children's Health Insurance Program, Mr. Bush requests $5.4 billion in 2008, a reduction of $223 million, or 4 percent, from this year's level. Beyond the current levels of spending, the White House is seeking an ''additional allotment'' of $5 billion over the next five years, which is less than half of what would be needed to maintain coverage for children currently enrolled.
 Mr. Bush said he wanted to return the program to its ''original objective'' of covering children with family incomes less than twice the poverty level. Budget documents note that 16 states cover children above that level, and ''one state, New Jersey, covers children up to 350 percent of the federal poverty level.'' A family of four is considered poor if its annual income is less than $20,650. 
 In a visit to the National Institutes of Health last month, Mr. Bush said, ''The N.I.H. is one of America's greatest assets, and it needs to be nourished,'' adding, ''It makes sense to spend taxpayers' money on cancer research.''
 But the president's budget for biomedical research is basically flat. He is requesting $28.9 billion for the health institutes in 2008, an increase of $232 million, or less than 1 percent. For the National Cancer Institute, Mr. Bush is requesting $4.8 billion, which is $9 million less than this year's level.
 To fight childhood obesity, Mr. Bush asks Congress to set aside $17 million for a new program to promote ''healthy behavior'' among adolescents. But at the same time, he asks Congress to eliminate the preventive health services block grant, which provides $99 million a year to help states prevent obesity and other chronic conditions.
 Mr. Bush proposes an 18 percent cut in the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which provides $2.2 billion to help people pay heating bills this year. At a time of high fuel prices, many lawmakers are likely to resist the cut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); MEDICARE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); LOBBYING (75%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (62%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); MEDICAID (58%); MARRIAGE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



112 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: With Rumsfeld Gone, Critics of War Look to Rice

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 

 BODY:
For six years, first as national security adviser and then as secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice worked under the cover of a very effective shield: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, who was the administration's lightning rod for criticism over its handling of Iraq. 
 But in recent weeks, with Mr. Rumsfeld gone, Ms. Rice has faced increased, and somewhat unfamiliar, criticism. At a Senate hearing on Jan. 11, she confronted a wall of opposition from Republicans as well as Democrats. During hearings this week on Iraq, several of her predecessors were pointed in their disapproval of her job performance.
Former Secretary of State James A. Baker III took issue with Ms. Rice's refusal to engage Syria diplomatically. Back in his day, he told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, ''We practiced diplomacy full time, and it paid off.''
 This week, Senators Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, released three letters demanding that Ms. Rice make public the administration's requirements for actions to be taken by the Iraqi government to earn continued American support. Along with the letters, and Ms. Rice's reply -- which indicated that the Iraqis had already missed most of the benchmarks -- the senators also released an irate statement. 
 ''Secretary Rice finally provided a response'' to the senators' repeated requests, the statement said. ''What Secretary Rice's letter makes abundantly clear is that the administration does not intend to attach meaningful consequences for the Iraqis continuing to fail to meet their commitments.''
 And on Jan. 20, The Economist published an editorial titled ''The Falling Star of Condoleezza Rice.'' 
 ''Condoleezza Rice,'' it said, ''is not the woman she once was.''
 Ms. Rice rarely becomes flustered -- she bristles whenever reporters ask her how she ''feels'' about anything -- and her aides maintain that she has taken the criticism in stride. But the Jan. 11 hearing clearly took its toll. ''Let's just say it was a bad day and leave it at that,'' one senior State Department official said. The next day, Ms. Rice hit back at Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat, who said Ms. Rice did not pay a personal price for the war because she had no immediate family members serving in Iraq.
 ''I thought it was O.K. to be single,'' Ms. Rice said. ''I thought it was O.K. to not have children, and I thought you could still make good decisions on behalf of the country if you were single and didn't have children.'' 
 Despite her role at the heart of the Iraq war from its beginnings, Ms. Rice had, thus far, avoided the public pillorying that Mr. Rumsfeld received. She has repeatedly had the highest approval ratings of anyone in the administration, and she continues to earn approval ratings that are substantially higher than her boss's.
 In particular, as secretary of state, Ms. Rice has been treated like a celebrity, appearing on Vanity Fair's best-dressed list and in an article in the November issue of Vogue. There are Web sites devoted to persuading her to run for president -- www.draftcondi.us says her nomination ''would be the greatest political move of the century'' -- and a blog obsessed with her personal style: www.sparklepony.blogspot.com includes a Rice ''hairdo alert system,'' and on Jan. 29 it posted a photograph of an Italian designer's gown that features Ms. Rice's face.
 But as the Bush administration's overall foreign policy has come under fire, and other senior officials have left the administration, Ms. Rice is starting to take the heat previously reserved for Mr. Rumsfeld. 
 ''Before, nobody assigned her the kind of ownership or authorship over the administration's policy -- she did get something of a pass,'' said Michael A. McFaul, a political science professor at Stanford who knows Ms. Rice. ''Now, there aren't that many officials still around, and she's much more exposed.''
 Kenneth M. Pollack, a research director at the Brookings Institution, said: ''It is no longer the case that Rumsfeld is the administration bad guy. People will look much harder at Condi's role now, and Iraq is really going to rest on her shoulders.''
 In the past, most of the criticism has come from the left. But now the disapproval has spread, and Republicans are joining in. The starkest example came on Jan. 11, when Ms. Rice faced a room full of skeptics as she defended, before a Senate panel, President Bush's new Iraq strategy. ''You're going to have to do a much better job'' explaining the rationale for the war, Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, told her, adding that the administration could no longer count on his support.
 The censure continued this week during three days of rare Senate testimony from a cadre of Ms. Rice's predecessors. While the former secretaries of state and national security advisers -- Mr. Baker, Henry A. Kissinger, Madeleine K. Albright, Brent Scowcroft and Zbigniew Brzezinski -- were diplomatic in their critiques of the administration's foreign policy, all left the impression that as America's top diplomat, Ms. Rice was not engaging in real diplomacy. 
 ''That's what we hire a secretary of state for, not to sit there and proclaim categorical statements, but to engage in the process,'' said Mr. Brzezinski, President Jimmy Carter's national security adviser.
 Mr. Kissinger and Ms. Albright both sounded a similar note. Mr. Kissinger, while giving lukewarm support to the administration, said America should always be ready to negotiate with Iran and Syria, while Ms. Albright added that ''one gains by communicating with countries with which one disagrees.''
 Ms. Rice's mentor, Mr. Scowcroft, who was national security adviser to President Gerald R. Ford and the first President Bush, called the troop increase a ''tactic, not a strategy.''
 Ms. Rice remains extraordinarily close to the president -- she spends time at Camp David and in Texas with Mr. Bush and his wife -- and friends said that relationship was a source of comfort to her. 
 The criticism of Ms. Rice has yet to reach the decibel level of that directed against Mr. Rumsfeld, and it may never get to that point, in part because she is not highhanded in her behavior toward colleagues and underlings, her close friends and aides said. Mr. Rumsfeld was heavily criticized by Democrats, and eventually, Republicans, but he also received a lot of disapproval from people who worked with him and for him at the Pentagon and in the administration. 
 Mr. Rice has yet to inspire that level of exasperation from colleagues, either from inside the State Department or the National Security Council. ''Whatever harping you may find, you won't find the same kind of internal dissent'' which Mr. Rumsfeld provoked, said Philip D. Zelikow, the State Department's former counselor and a close friend of Ms. Rice. ''She'll occasionally have a tart thing to say, but she's not one of those people who wrings their hands and worries incessantly about their press.''
 But she sometimes does take criticism personally. Last fall, she telephoned President Bush's father, who employed her on his National Security Council in the early 1990s, after Bob Woodward's book ''State of Denial'' reported that the elder Mr. Bush had said that she had been a ''disappointment'' and ''not up to the job.''
 The former president told Larry King on CNN that Ms. Rice ''called me and said, 'There's something in this book.' '' He denied that he called her a disappointment. ''I guess there were some hurt feelings,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at a Senate hearing on Jan. 11. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FAMILY (75%); IRAQ WAR (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); CARL LEVIN (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2007



113 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Haitian Candidate Seeks to Add His Voice

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
As a television in a corner of a small, cozy Haitian restaurant in Brooklyn played a comedy in Creole, Dr. Mathieu Eugene spoke about his quest to become the first Haitian-born member of the New York City Council.
 ''Has the time come?'' Dr. Eugene said, repeating a question that he has been asked frequently during the past few weeks. ''Yes, I believe the time has come. We Haitians have been participating in the political system for some time, and we have helped others get into elective office. Many people believe that it's our turn. And they look at this as a historic and important moment.''
 There are anywhere from 100,000 to 200,000 Haitian-Americans in New York, but no one with that background has been elected to the Council or the State Legislature. 
 Many Haitian-Americans in Brooklyn suggested that they have their best chance ever in Dr. Eugene, 54, a physician who is seeking to replace Yvette D. Clarke, who was elected to Congress in November. 
 In the complicated Caribbean politics of central Brooklyn, Ms. Clarke, who is of Jamaican descent, has decided to endorse Dr. Eugene, forsaking the Jamaican candidates in a race that has become a test of ethnic primacy among the fervently political West Indian groups that are prevalent in the district.
 And just as Irish and later Jewish and Italian politicians clawed their way to political power by first capturing local offices in previous generations, the Caribbean groups are viewing this contest as a vehicle for showing their growing political clout. 
 ''This race is significant because you have a lot of people from various Caribbean ancestries trying to get a seat or hold a seat at the political table,'' said Michael Gaspard, a political consultant who has studied the race to succeed Ms. Clarke. ''And it's a sign of the Caribbean community coming of age in a significant political way.''
 In an indication of how prized the seat is, the campaign leading up to the Feb. 20 special election initially drew 25 candidates, including people who claim ancestry from Barbados, Jamaica, Pakistan, Panama and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The cumbersome process of gathering petition signatures winnowed that original field down to 10 contenders, including one Jewish candidate, who could carry some of the district's Jewish vote. 
 The seat, for the 40th City Council District, represents parts of Flatbush and Crown Heights, and has long been known as a hotbed of political activism over issues like police brutality and immigration rights.
 Ms. Clarke's mother, Una, made history by becoming the first Jamaican-born member of the Council in 1991. And Yvette Clarke succeeded her mother in the Council before going to Congress this year.
 Now, both mother and daughter, who are something of a political force in Brooklyn, have decided that it was time to repay the substantial Haitian support they have received over the years.
 Dr. Eugene's candidacy represents a maturation of the often fractious Haitian political landscape in New York. During the 1960s, a large wave of Haitians came to the United States, seeking better opportunities when Francois Duvalier was the dictator of Haiti. Even after Mr. Duvalier's son, Jean-Claude, was overthrown in 1986, Haitians continued to flock to New York, many to flee Haiti's chronic famine and unemployment. 
 In 1980, there were about 50,000 Haitian-born New Yorkers, according to figures from the New York City Planning Commission. By 2000, that number had grown to nearly 100,000, the Planning Commission said. And Haitian-American civic associations now suggest that the number of New Yorkers of Haitian descent could be as high as 200,000.
 Over the years, several Haitian candidates have run for office in New York, but none have been successful.
 ''Haitian people are interested in politics,'' said Henry Frank, the executive director of the Haitian Centers Council, a New York-based consortium of Haitian organizations. ''And they brought that interest in politics from Haiti to New York.''
 Mr. Frank said that typically, several Haitian candidates run for an office and as a result, not one is able to get enough votes to win. ''Here in New York, there was a lot of fighting among candidates in our community,'' he said. ''That's the way of saying, too many chiefs and not enough Indians here.'' 
 So important was this seat to Haitian political and civic leaders that they had meetings to narrow the field of Haitian-American candidates. The group selected Ferdinand Zizi, a health care administrator, but he withdrew from the race while his petitions were being challenged, leaving Dr. Eugene as the sole Haitian running. Since then, his candidacy has received attention from media outlets in Haiti, which are following the race closely.
 Whether Dr. Eugene, who also runs a nonprofit organization for young people, is successful in his quest to become the first Haitian-born council member remains to be seen, since he has some rather stiff competition among the nine other candidates.
 One rival is Jennifer N. James, 34, who worked as an aide to state Comptroller H. Carl McCall and as a fund-raiser for Ms. Clarke's congressional campaign. Ms. James, who is of Jamaican and Costa Rican heritage, has won several political endorsements.
 Another candidate is Jesse E. Hamilton III, 44, a lawyer who ran unsuccessfully for the Assembly last year, but won a position as Democratic Party district leader. The District Council 37 labor union has endorsed Mr. Hamilton, who traces his roots to Barbados and the state of Georgia. Another is Zenobia McNally, 45, a businesswoman of Panamanian descent who ran against Ms. Clarke for the Council in 2005.
 There is Jamaican-born Wellington Sharpe, 62, a businessman in the district who ran unsuccessfully for the State Senate in 2004. Another candidate is Joel G. Toney, 61, a former ambassador to the United Nations from St. Vincent and the Grenadines. They are among the top fund-raisers.
 Other candidates are Mohammad A. Razvi, 36, a Pakistani-born businessman who runs a community center; Karlene A. Gordon, 46, a former public school teacher who was born in Jamaica; Leithland Rickie Tulloch, 44, a Jamaican-born longtime member of Community Board 17; and Harry L. Schiffman, 55, the director of government and community relations of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center, and the only white candidate in the race.
 Under the City Charter, such special elections are nonpartisan races in which candidates are barred from running on the ballot lines of established political parties.
 And a special election in February tends to be as unpredictable as the winter weather. With so many candidates running and so few voters expected to go to the polls, any of the 10 candidates makes a plausible case for victory.
 Mr. Razvi, for example, has led the fund-raising, having collected more than $100,000, of which $62,000 was in public matching funds. Mr. Sharpe has been endorsed by well-known politicians like Representative Edolphus Towns. Ms. James has called upon her vast network of political friends. Others, like Mr. Hamilton, said that their previous candidacies had given them familiarity with voters.
 ''It's unpredictable because it's in the dead of winter and a candidate could win with 15 percent of the vote,'' said Mr. Gaspard, the political consultant. ''Turnout will be extremely low, and any of them could squeeze this out. And that's what makes it intriguing.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mohammad A. Razvi, 36, another of the 10 candidates, is a Pakistani-born businessman. He was campaigning in the Midwood neighborhood of Brooklyn. (Photo by Nicholas Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
Dr. Mathieu Eugene, 54, right, with an aide, Joe Placide, could become the first Haitian-born City Council member. A special election in Brooklyn is set for Feb. 20. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
West Indian groups are prevalent in the 40th City Council District, where there is a race to replace Councilwoman Yvette D. Clarke, who was elected to Congress in November. The candidates include, from left, Jennifer N. James, 34
Jesse E. Hamilton III, 44
Wellington Sharpe, 62
and Joel G. Toney, 61. (Photos by Todd Heisler/The New York Times [James and Hamilton]
James Estrin/The New York Times [Sharpe]
 Ruby Washington/The New York Times [Toney])(pg. B1)Chart/Map: ''Haitians in Brooklyn''There are more than 70,000 people of Haitian ancestry in Brooklyn, making them the second largest non-Spanish speaking West Indian group after Jamaicans.Map of Brooklyn highlighting the 40th City Council District. (Source by Census Bureau)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CITIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PETITIONS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (50%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%) Endorsements; West Indian-Americans; Haitian-Americans

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: YVETTE CLARKE (90%) Jonathan P Hicks; Mathieu (Dr) Eugene; Yvette D (Rep) Clarke

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); BARBADOS (79%); SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



114 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 275 words

 BODY:
A VERY BIG DEAL -- On Wednesday, shareholders of Equity Office Properties Trust will vote on a takeover offer by Blackstone, which is in a bidding war with Vornado Realty Trust. Whatever deal emerges will most likely be the largest private equity buyout ever, with a sale price in the $40 billion range. 
MARKETING MOVIES -- The Motion Picture Association of America will open an industry symposium to educate policy makers on the value of the motion picture business and its contribution to the economy (Tuesday).MORE ENRON FALLOUT -- A three-judge panel for the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans will hear arguments in a shareholder suit against banks that did business with Enron (Monday). REPORTS AND SPEECHES -- Ben S. Bernanke, above, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak before the Greater Omaha Chamber of Commerce (Tuesday). Retailers will report January same-store sales (Thursday). Other reports this week are the Institute for Supply Management's nonmanufacturing index for January (Monday), nonfarm labor productivity for the fourth quarter and consumer credit for December (Wednesday), and wholesale trade (Thursday). EARNINGS REPORTS -- Toyota will post its fiscal third-quarter results on Tuesday. Other earnings this week include Humana (Monday); Avon, BP, Cisco Systems, Computer Sciences, IAC/InterActiveCorp, McClatchy and Tyco (Tuesday); Cigna, Electronic Data Systems, Lazard, the News Corporation, Sara Lee, Walt Disney and Whirlpool (Wednesday); Aetna, Belo, Embarq, GlaxoSmithKline, Marriott, PepsiCo, Qwest, Tribune and Warner Music (Thursday); and Alcatel-Lucent, Hasbro, MasterCard and Weyerhaeuser (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (76%); WHOLESALERS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FILM (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); SAME STORE SALES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); JUDGES (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); APPEALS COURTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (67%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (66%); NEWS CORP (66%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); CIGNA CORP (54%); PEPSICO INC (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (54%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (91%); IACI (NASDAQ) (67%); ALU (PAR) (66%); ALU (NYSE) (66%); ALU (BIT) (66%); NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); CI (NYSE) (54%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); GSK (NYSE) (54%); GSK (LSE) (54%); BIOC (EGX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (67%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (67%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (67%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (54%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



115 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: Internet Boom In China Is Built On Virtual Fun

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHENZHEN, China 

 BODY:
When Pony Ma, the 35-year-old co-founder of China's hottest Internet company, sends a message to friends and colleagues, the image that pops up on their screens shows a spiky-haired youth wearing flashy jeans and dark sunglasses.
 That is not how Mr. Ma actually looks or acts, but it is an image that fits well with the youthful, faintly rebellious nature of a company led by somebody who may be China's closest approximation to Sergey Brin and Larry Page, the young founders of Google. In the two years since Mr. Ma's company, Tencent, went public in Hong Kong, it has grown into a powerhouse that has crushed everyone else in the field.
No other Internet company in the world -- not even Google -- has achieved the kind of dominance in its home market that Tencent commands in China, where its all-in-one packaging of entertainment offerings and a mobile instant-messaging service, ''QQ,'' www.qq.com has reached more than 100 million users, or nearly 80 percent of the market.
 ''Everyone talks about eyeballs,'' said William Bao Bean, an Internet analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. ''Well, they've got all the eyeballs in China. And now they're beginning to cash in on that.'' 
 But the rise of fast-growing companies like Tencent is also worrying the Chinese government, which strictly regulates the Internet and is wary of the Web's ability to mobilize huge online political communities or perhaps to nurture underground economies.
 A few weeks ago, China's Central Bank -- which oversees the country's $2.6 trillion economy -- even went so far as to issue a warning about Tencent's virtual currency, Q-coins, which allow customers to shop online for games, music and even virtual furniture.
 A Central Bank official said the agency was studying whether Tencent's online tokens were a threat to China's currency, the yuan or renminbi. He also said the authorities would crack down on the coins if they were used to engage in money laundering.
 That is far from Tencent's intention. Already one of China's wealthiest entrepreneurs -- worth an estimated $850 million -- the soft-spoken Mr. Ma says he simply wants to let people in China use the Web the way they want.
 ''I think every Internet user likes personalization,'' Mr. Ma said during an interview here. ''In 2005 and 2006, we came up with a new strategy: 'Online Lifestyle.' ''
 While America's Internet users send e-mail messages and surf for information on their personal computers, young people in China are playing online games, downloading video and music into their cellphones and MP3 players and entering imaginary worlds where they can swap virtual goods and assume online personas. Tencent earns the bulk of its revenue from the entertainment services it sells through the Internet and mobile phones.
 Another distinguishing feature is the youthful face of China's online community. In the United States, roughly 70 percent of Internet users are over the age of 30; in China, it is the other way around -- 70 percent of users here are under 30, according to the investment bank Morgan Stanley.
 Because few people in China have credit cards or trust the Internet for financial transactions, e-commerce is emerging slowly. But instant messaging and game-playing are major obsessions, now central to Chinese culture. So is social networking, a natural fit in a country full of young people without siblings. Tencent combines aspects of the social networking site MySpace, the video sharing site YouTube and the online virtual world of Second Life. 
 ''They have what I call the largest virtual park in China,'' said Richard Ji, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. ''And in China, the No. 1 priority for Internet users is entertainment; in the U.S., it's information. That's why Google is dominant in the U.S., but Tencent rules China.''
 Tencent's rapid rise is one reason America's biggest Internet companies, like Yahoo, Google and eBay, have largely flopped in China. Analysts say the American companies struggle here partly because of regulatory restrictions that favor homegrown companies, but also because foreign companies often do not understand China's Internet market, which is geared primarily to entertainment and mobile phones.
 Google has lost market share to the search engine Baidu. Yahoo recently transferred its operations to a Chinese company, Alibaba.com. And eBay, even after buying one of its biggest competitors in China, has continued to lose ground; last December it handed its Chinese operations over to Tom.com, which is based in Hong Kong, in a joint venture.
 Chinese youth prefer instant messages to e-mail messages; they play games, form communities and even adopt virtual personas, or avatars, which requires selecting an online image or personality and then buying that character virtual clothes, hairstyles, furniture and perhaps even a virtual pet that must be fed with virtual pet food.
 It is a world that now dominates the life of Li Meixuan, a 21-year-old college student in Beijing who became hooked on Tencent's QQ offerings in high school. 
 ''I play with QQ about three to five hours a day,'' said Ms. Li. ''I usually play QQ games, buy game stuff from the QQ Game and buy decorations for my QQ show.''
 Tencent will not release statistics on how its Q-coins are doing, but analysts say the currency is so popular that an underground economy in Q-coins has emerged, even though the coins are not redeemable for cash. Mr. Ma dismisses talk about the coins harming the Chinese currency. 
 ''The media has misled the public,'' he said. ''A Central Bank official said that Q-coin did not affect the renminbi; it adds vibrancy to the economy. Our competitors raised this to intentionally cause panic.''
 The controversy has done nothing to dim the company's stock price, which has soared about 200 percent over the last year, giving the company a market value of roughly $7 billion. The rally was fueled by Tencent's rising profit, which jumped 221 percent through the first three quarters of 2006, to $100 million.
 Tencent was founded in 1998 by college buddies here in this southern China city, led by Ma Huateng, or Pony Ma, as he is known in English.
 Mr. Ma has a boyish face and a quiet demeanor. But he is one of China's most respected entrepreneurs. And when he shows up at Internet conferences in China he is mobbed by young people eager to have a picture taken with him or to shove their name cards into his pocket.
 Mr. Ma earned a degree in computer science in 1993 from Shenzhen University, where his professors remember him as a diligent student who always stood out.
 ''He left a deep impression on me,'' said Wang Jingli, the former chairman of the university's computer science department. He recalled how he once assigned Mr. Ma to solve a classic chess problem called the eight queens puzzle. ''He gave me all the answers in graphics, which was very rare among the students I taught.''
 Later, Mr. Ma worked as a software developer for a paging and telecommunications company. But after making a lot of money trading stocks in his free time, he founded Tencent with his boyhood friend Zhang Zhidong. It was one of the first companies to offer instant messaging in China. But in the early days, profits were hard to come by.
 ''They didn't really have a revenue model, and they didn't know how they were going to make money,'' said Shirley Yeung, who was among the first to invest in the company for PCCW, the Hong Kong telecom operator. ''They were a bunch of young techies working in a crummy building but passionate about creating something new.''
 In 2001, the company got a big infusion of capital from MIH, a division of a South African media company called Naspers. MIH paid $35 million to acquire about 50 percent of the company. 
 Tencent's fortunes improved later that year when the company teamed up with China Mobile, the giant state-owned mobile operator, to forward Internet messaging to mobile phones.
 ''That was our first bucket of gold,'' Mr. Ma said.
 By 2004, Tencent was making a handsome profit on revenue of more than $130 million and Goldman Sachs was brought in to take the company public in Hong Kong, where Tencent's offering raised $184 million in June 2004.
 Since then, the company has been on a tear. Other big Chinese Internet companies, like Sina, Sohu, Netease and Baidu, are trying to keep pace. And so are the American Internet companies, like MySpace, which is looking to enter China's market.
 But Mr. Ma is not standing still. ''There are a lot of opportunities in the market now,'' he said. ''The leader of the market today may not necessarily be the leader tomorrow.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pony Ma, whose real name is Ma Huateng, in front of a projected image of a spiky-haired youth at Tencent's headquarters in Shenzhen. (Photo by Natalie Behring for The New York Times)(pg. A4)Chart: ''Net Winner''Tencent is China's leader in the market for online entertainment and virtual communities. Its stock price reflects that success.REVENUE -- In millions3RD Q. 2005TOTAL :$44.8Internet entertainment services (Including online games, music and video streaming, social networking and virtual communities): 25.3Mobile phone services (Including content-based services, mobile chat rooms and instant message forwarding to mobile phones): 15.0Online advertising: 4.3Other: 0.23RD Q. 2006TOTAL: $93.2Internet entertainment services (Including online games, music and video streaming, social networking and virtual communities): 62.0Mobile phone services (Including content-based services, mobile chat rooms and instant message forwarding to mobile phones): 20.9Online advertising: 10.2Other: 0.1Graph tracks Tencent's stock price in 2005 and 2006.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (73%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%) Computers and the Internet; Age, Chronological; Electronic Mail ; Computers and the Internet; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Tencent (Co); Google Inc; Yahoo Inc; Ebay Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: MA "PONY" HUATENG (92%); SERGEY BRIN (58%); LARRY PAGE (55%) David Barboza; Ma Huateng (Pony Ma)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; Shenzhen (China)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



116 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Due in Albany, With Aid at Issue

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
In his first budget proposal, Gov. Eliot Spitzer has called for eliminating $327.9 million in annual state aid for New York City, a provision that will most likely be a major point of debate when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg travels to Albany today to testify before the State Legislature.
 Mr. Spitzer's budget calls for increasing state support to New York City's public schools -- an increase rising from $637 million in the coming fiscal year to $2.3 billion two years later. However, he has also proposed a sweeping overhaul of a state aid program that helps localities.
The program, Aid and Incentives for Municipalities, or AIM, provides New York City with $327.9 million a year. Also known as revenue-sharing or per-capita aid, the program has existed for decades and was pledged against some of the bonds that were issued to bail out the city from the fiscal crisis of the 1970s. 
 In a financial plan he presented on Jan. 25, Mr. Bloomberg, arguing that city taxpayers contribute $11 billion more a year than they get back through state expenditures, called for a 10 percent increase in the aid program. The city, he says, was excluded during three overall increases in the program over the past decade and deserves more.
 But in his own budget speech on Wednesday, instead of increasing the city's share of the aid, Mr. Spitzer proposed to eliminate it.
 In Mr. Spitzer's view, aid increases should be provided to cities, towns and villages ''based on their level of fiscal distress.'' 
 Under his plan, 17 economically struggling upstate communities would receive the maximum 9 percent annual increase in aid. New York City and 81 ''high-wealth towns and villages'' would not receive any aid.
 Aides to the governor said the city's loss would be more than made up for by the big increase in education spending and by closing certain tax loopholes, which are projected to save the city $374 million in the coming fiscal year and $379 million thereafter. Closing those loopholes, they say, essentially negates the effect of the loss of $327.9 million in annual aid.
 ''The increased revenues that the city will receive from tax-loophole closings offset the money that it would be losing from the AIM program,'' said Paul E. Francis, the governor's budget director.
 The city is not as optimistic about the plan. 
 For one thing, the $327.9 million in annual aid is a recurring, steady and longstanding revenue source, while the $374 million from closing tax loopholes is a projection by the governor's office that may or may not prove accurate.
 In addition, the Legislature may not approve both the reduction in aid and closing of the loopholes.
 Secondly, because of how state aid is accounted for, the $327.9 million reduction might feel more like a $650 million hit. The AIM payments to New York City are typically disbursed in installments around October and December, for the fiscal year that ended the previous June 30. 
 If Mr. Spitzer's AIM proposal takes effect for the state fiscal year that starts on April 1, New York City would lose its aid not only for its next fiscal year, but also for the current one.
 A third potential point of contention is whether closing the loophole is a good idea. 
 The governor says that corporations reduce their state tax liabilities using loopholes like shifting income out of the state using sophisticated tax-planning techniques and deducting dividends earned by real estate investment trusts. 
 Some Republican critics have contended that Mr. Spitzer is really raising taxes under the guise of closing loopholes, a characterization the governor denies. Some business leaders assert that the cost of doing business in New York City remains very high and that any changes to the corporate tax structure should be made gingerly. 
 Even so, Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed policy organization, predicted that the city's concerns about the governor's budget would be expressed quietly. ''I wouldn't imagine there would be much acrimony, as far as the city-state relationship, in the next few weeks,'' she said. 
 Mr. Bloomberg returned yesterday from a trip to Israel, and his aides said they could not comment on the governor's budget until after the mayor testifies today at a joint hearing of the Senate Finance Committee and the Assembly Ways and Means Committee. 
 City Councilman David I. Weprin, the chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, said he was concerned about the reduction in state aid, but confident that Governor Spitzer's budget would benefit the city on the whole. 
 ''I feel pretty confident we're going to do a lot better under Governor Spitzer than we ever did under Governor Pataki,'' said Mr. Weprin, a Queens Democrat. 
 ''Even though this particular accounting move -- if one wants to call it that -- will on paper hurt New York City, I think it will be more than made up for in other ways,'' Mr. Weprin said. 
 He noted that Mr. Spitzer was proposing increasing state aid to the city's schools by an amount substantially greater than the $1.9 billion minimum ordered by the state's highest court in a landmark school financing case. 
 In addition to increasing education aid while eliminating the unrestricted aid, Mr. Spitzer's $120.6 billion budget plan includes smaller changes that would affect New York City.
 The plan calls for increasing what the state charges New York City for administering the city's personal income tax; the change would cost the city $30 million a year. 
 Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Bloomberg basically agree on several programs but not on all the details. 
 The governor has proposed raising to $2 million from $50,000 the threshold at which New York City public building projects fall under the Wicks Law, which requires municipalities to use four separate contractors for such projects.
 The change would save the city $8 million in the next fiscal year, rising to $12.4 million in two years. The city would prefer to repeal the law, saying it would save $62 million a year. 
 The governor also proposed changes involving lawsuits by public employees against their employers. One change would prevent employees who have won jury awards from also collecting full disability pensions. 
 There is also the question of how the governor's sweeping Medicaid proposal would affect New York City's public hospitals system. So far, there is little consensus on the answer. 
 Over all, Mr. Francis said that the budget plan would benefit the city by $668.5 million, almost all of that attributable to the increase in education aid. Combining two existing health-related programs -- a cap on local contributions to Medicaid and a state takeover of the Family Health Plus insurance program -- the figure approaches $1.4 billion, Mr. Francis said. 
 ''Governor Spitzer believes this is an overwhelmingly positive budget for residents of New York City,'' he said. 
 But as the city continues to analyze the reams of budget documents coming out of Albany, that view could be challenged. 
 ''It's going to take some time for the city to work out just how well it will fare under the governor's budget proposal,'' predicted Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the city's Independent Budget Office.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Budget Proposal and the City''Gov. Eliot Spitzer is calling for an increase in money to New York City public schools, closing tax loopholes and overhauling several aid programs. Over all, the governor says the city would gain under the plan.STATE AID INCREASES (In millions)Public school aidFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- $637.0FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- $1,400.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- $2,264.0Closing tax loopholesFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 374.0FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 379.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 379.0Takeover of Family Health Plus insurance program*FISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 362.5FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 387.3FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 397.3Cap on local contributions to Medicaid*FISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 343.3FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 585.8FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 914.5Tort and litigation reformFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 14.0FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 14.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 14.0Improve Roosevelt Island Tramway serviceFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 11.3FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 0.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 0.0Reform of Wicks Law for public building projectsFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 8.0FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 11.7FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 12.4New York City transit operating assistanceFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 6.7FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 6.7FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 6.7Temporary Assistance for Needy Families allocationsFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 5.5FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 5.5FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 5.5Early Intervention Program reimbursementFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- 0.8FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- 3.8FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- 6.0Total increaseFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- $1,763.1FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- $2,793.8FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- $3,999.4STATE AID DECREASES (In millions)Aid and Incentives for Municipalities programFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- -$327.9FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- -$327.9FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- -$327.9Higher charge for personal tax administrationFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- -30.0FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- -30.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- -30.0Aid from video lottery terminalsFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- -20.0FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- -20.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- -20.0Office of Children and Family Services facility ratesFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- -10.9FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- -13.9FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- -15.5Total decreaseFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- -$388.8FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- -$391.8FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- -$393.4GRAND TOTALFISCAL YEARS: 2007-8 -- $1,374.3FISCAL YEARS: 2008-9 -- $2,402.0FISCAL YEARS: 2009-10 -- $3,606.0*started under Gov. George E. Pataki(Source by New York State Division of the Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Education and Schools

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Sewell Chan; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



117 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Familiar Face, But a New Tone To the Message

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
John Edwards has no intention of getting lost in the shuffle.
 Faced with what he always knew would be a tough race against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination and now the challenge of convincing his party that he is also a better alternative than Senator Barack Obama, Mr. Edwards is trying to muscle his way past them and the rest of the field, in part by staking out early and provocative positions on the big issues.
 On the war in Iraq, Mr. Edwards, a former senator from North Carolina, not only came out for a complete withdrawal within 12 to 18 months, but he also challenged his Democratic rivals who are still in government to confront President Bush more directly. And on Monday, Mr. Edwards will set out a plan to provide health insurance to the 46.6 million Americans who do not have it, stealing a march on Mrs. Clinton and other Democrats on what is shaping up to be one of the biggest domestic issues of the presidential race.
 Appearing on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC on Sunday, Mr. Edwards said he would raise taxes on people making more than $200,000 a year to help pay for the plan, which he estimated could cost up to $120 billion a year. 
 Mr. Edwards, his party's nominee for vice president in 2004, has taken on a sharper tone since that campaign ended in defeat.
 He is campaigning as a harder-edged economic populist now, which he says represents more a change in tone than in substance. He says he is both more electable and more authentic than Mrs. Clinton, and more experienced than Mr. Obama.
 The rapid emergence of Mr. Obama has scrambled the Democratic field in a way that poses a particular challenge for Mr. Edwards. He now faces intense competition for the role of fresh-faced change agent. His appeal to voters who feel disenfranchised by the economy and aggrieved by the war must now carry over the similar message being developed by Mr. Obama.
 But in the battle to be the most credible alternative to Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primaries, Mr. Edwards has built some early advantages. 
 He has avidly pursued labor support, marching on picket lines in Miami, Las Vegas and Chicago, pushing for state minimum wage increases and speaking at union conventions. He is offering proposals on the war, health care and the environment that are more audacious and more specific than those of his rivals.
 His efforts have paid substantial dividends. He leads in early polls in Iowa and is near the top in New Hampshire surveys. He is ahead of his principal rivals in organizing in the two new early caucus and primary states of Nevada and South Carolina. He has a solid financing base in trial lawyers and antiwar Internet activists, high name recognition and experience on the campaign trail.
 Mr. Edwards acknowledged that he was running as a very different candidate this time. He said he had grown and matured and learned from his mistakes, and has told friends that he really was not ready to run for president in 2004. He has spent the past two years directing a poverty center at the University of North Carolina and traveling the country and world to learn about the problems that will confront the next president. He said he had learned more in the past two years, a period that included the recuperation of his wife, Elizabeth, from a life-threatening encounter with breast cancer, than in his six years in the Senate. 
 ''I, like all of you, have evolved,'' Mr. Edwards said last week to a sizeable crowd at Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H. ''It is not enough to do small things. Baby steps and incremental change are not enough. We need transformational change.''
 Mr. Edwards said such change would involve considerable sacrifice by Americans who can afford it, in the form of higher taxes for the wealthy to pay for health care for those who do not have it now and voluntary reductions in the use of fossil fuels to address global warming. He said the nation had more important priorities than balancing the federal budget.
 He has clearly migrated to the left in the past several years. He has repudiated his 2002 vote to authorize the war in Iraq and has called on Mrs. Clinton to do the same. He said nonbinding resolutions on the war, like those supported by Senators Clinton and Obama, were meaningless.
 Some critics and aides to rival candidates say all of this is nothing more than an opportunistic rebranding to attract labor and Internet support to mount a viable primary challenge to Mrs. Clinton and the unexpected threat from Mr. Obama. 
 Others say that though Mr. Edwards is a credible contender, like anyone running an insurgency against the establishment candidate, he will not be able to fall back on the top-tier institutional and financial support that will rescue Mrs. Clinton if she should stumble in the early states where Mr. Edwards appears strongest.
 ''He has a distinguishing message, he has deep committed organizational help as a result of the work he's done both with unions and other groups around the country, and he's leading in Iowa,'' said John D. Podesta, who served as chief of staff in the Clinton White House and is now an adviser to Mrs. Clinton. Despite all that, Mr. Podesta said, Mr. Edwards will have trouble overcoming Mrs. Clinton's broad and deep support.
 Mr. Podesta cited the example of Gary Hart in 1984, who ran as a progressive alternative to the establishment candidate, former Vice President Walter Mondale. ''He couldn't convert his early strength into the nomination,'' Mr. Podesta said. ''There was enough time and enough influence by the party elites to backstop Mondale when he took some early blows.''
 The John Edwards of the 2004 campaign is still recognizable today: the youthful face, the story of the son of the mill worker who made good as a trial lawyer fighting for the wronged against the powerful. 
 But his campaign voice is different, at times angry and more impatient. He said that in his last campaign he was handicapped first by his inexperience as a national candidate, and then by his subordinate role as Mr. Kerry's vice presidential nominee. He said that this time he was more seasoned and unshackled, which he believes gives him advantages over his two most prominent rivals, Senators Clinton and Obama.
 Americans assume they know Mrs. Clinton, he said, ''But what is unknowable is what will happen during the course of the campaign, what it will reveal about the character, the integrity, the decency of the candidates involved.'' He said that Mr. Obama had no idea what was about to hit him. ''The intense spotlight of a national campaign is an experience that is unique for any American,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''You may think you know what it's like, but if you haven't been through it, you don't.''
 He said he had seen the impact of free trade on workers in the United States and abroad and now doubted whether he would again support permanent normal trade relations with China, which he voted for as a senator. He said he probably would support the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act again, but would demand stronger protections for domestic civil liberties.
 He displayed another difference from 2004 at the meeting at Dartmouth last week. A student asked him whether he would support a law allowing for full marriage benefits for gay men and lesbians.
 He said he had grown up as a Southern Baptist in a conservative small town and was torn by the concept of same-sex marriage. ''I'll admit I'm personally conflicted about these issues,'' he said. ''I am not personally for gay marriage, but it troubles me that I'd use my own experience as the basis for a policy decision.'' He said that while he opposed same-sex marriage, he supported civil unions for gay couples and all anti-discrimination laws. 
 Mr. Edwards said later that had he been asked the same question in 2004, ''I would have finessed it and given a formulaic answer.'' He added, ''I just find it easier to be more candid now.''
 Mr. Edwards and his aides are counting on the work of the past two years to help overcome his biggest challenges. He has hired a new campaign manager, David E. Bonior, former Democratic representative of Michigan and an unreconstructed pro-labor liberal, and is hoping for organizational help, if not endorsements, from politically active unions. Mr. Edwards makes a point of greeting bartenders, kitchen workers and hotel clerks at all his campaign stops.
 Anna Burger, secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which has 1.8 million members, said the union would not necessarily endorse a candidate in the Democratic primary, but she spoke warmly of Mr. Edwards.
 ''He's been in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Boston talking to hotel workers,'' Ms. Burger said. ''He believes deeply in the rights of working people.''
 What is unknown is how he, and all the other contenders, will stand up under a full year of scrutiny in a primary process that began earlier and promises to be more intense than ever.
 ''Now that,'' Mr. Edwards said as he and his wife flew to New York to raise money from a passel of Wall Street barons at the Regency Hotel, ''is a good question. But we've been through it before.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Edwards campaigning last week in New Hampshire. (Photo by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 John Edwards, who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, speaking to students last week at Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H. Mr. Edwards says he has evolved since his 2004 vice-presidential run. (Photographs by Erik Jacobs for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); LAWYERS (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Primaries; Finances; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2008; Organized Labor ; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) John M Broder; John Edwards; Barack (Sen) Obama; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (76%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) New Hampshire; Iowa; Nevada; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



118 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: A Presidential Also-Ran, Kerry Shrugs Off Outcast Status and Focuses on Senate Life

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry keeps to himself around the Capitol. He is always rushing somewhere, head down, disappearing into elevators. A Senate loner for 22 years, Mr. Kerry seems all the more isolated now as he darts past the media hordes around the next set of presidential seekers, colleagues that include Hillary Rodham Clinton, John McCain and Barack Obama. 
 Even in the best of times, Mr. Kerry's face hung droopy and funereal, one of the most weary in American politics. Today, Mr. Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who was the exit poll president-elect for a few hours in November 2004, endures the peculiar pariah status that his party reserves for its losing nominees.
''America does not tolerate losing, even though it's through losing that we learn the most,'' said David Thorne, the twin brother of Mr. Kerry's late first wife, Julia Thorne, and his closest friend. ''People want fresh faces. Or they think they do.'' 
 As the 2008 campaign begins in earnest, Mr. Kerry has been forced to adapt to something resembling a normal Senate life. This has been no small challenge for a man whose identity has long been steeped in becoming president, or trying to. 
 Last week, days after he announced he would not run again, Mr. Kerry said there was no point to dwelling on what might have been. ''You know, that's such a waste of time right now,'' he said in a Capitol hallway interview. ''I came close, but so what? I didn't make it, so move on. Just go forward. There's no sense going backwards.''
 Mr. Kerry ratified his status as Dead Candidate Walking in an emotional speech on the Senate floor two weeks ago. ''We came close, certainly close enough to be tempted to try again,'' Mr. Kerry said, referring to his 2004 campaign.
 Only two colleagues attended his announcement, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a fellow Massachusetts Democrat, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada (another, Senator Ken Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, walked in late). ''I have concluded this is not the time for me to mount a presidential campaign.'' 
 The grave Kerry face was on stark display that day, his voice breaking at times. When it was over, Mr. Reid hugged him and said he loved him, and then Mr. Kerry left the chamber by himself. 
 His announcement could have been a dignified valedictory moment. But the enigmatic Mr. Kerry is often misunderstood, and several news reports said he had cried when saying he would not run; in fact, he choked up earlier in his speech when talking about an Army captain he had met in Iraq who had been killed.
 No matter, the photo of Mr. Kerry breaking down ran prominently in the Drudge Report and elsewhere. It buttressed the notion of John Kerry as the forlorn loser who had finally bottomed out. It also served as a grim visual to another round of Kerry abuse, conjuring up the caricature of him as a helmet-haired, flip-flopping elitist.
 ''Who will the windsurfing caucus back now?'' a columnist for The Boston Herald wisecracked. A cartoonist for The Times-Picayune of New Orleans mocked Mr. Kerry as saying, ''Actually I was for another White House bid before I was against it.'' A few days earlier in a new book, Terry McAuliffe, the former Democratic National Committee chairman, became the latest party bigwig to pan Mr. Kerry's 2004 campaign.
 Mr. Kerry says he finds it ''freeing'' not to be a presidential candidate. ''Hopefully, the things I say and do will not be taken in the light of a presidential race anymore,'' he said. ''And I think that's positive.''
 He will seek re-election in Massachusetts next year and says he is looking forward to immersing himself in Senate life, particularly on issues related to the Iraq war. Mr. Kerry has sought counsel from Mr. Kennedy, who himself returned to the Senate after a bitter primary defeat and went on to have a storied career as a lawmaker. 
 Yet to many eyes, Mr. Kerry will always be trapped in yesterday's news and lingering disappointment. He is a member of the tiny club that knows what it is like to lose an election to George W. Bush -- to blow an election, by some accounts. 
 At least Al Gore was allowed to slip away, grow a beard and come back when he was ready. Mr. Kerry had to return to his very public job, hear all about how ''winnable'' his race was, how ''unlikable'' a candidate he was and how ridiculous it would be for him to consider ever trying again. His name elicited instant eye-rolls among many former supporters.
 But Mr. Kerry held out hope. Last year, he campaigned for Democrats, wielding an impressive e-mail list, bankroll and political network. He kept his options open. Until, finally, he shed what had been the guiding aspiration of his career seemingly from its outset. 
 ''Your heart goes out to him,'' Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, said in a brief interview a few days after Mr. Kerry said he was not running. ''It just isn't easy to shift your ambitions away from something that's been his ambition for a long time.''
 Running for president -- or losing -- hardly makes Mr. Kerry unique among senators (scores have run, but no sitting senator has been elected since John F. Kennedy in 1960). But Mr. Kerry stands out for coming so close, and people who know him say it has made it all the harder to give up. ''He is a stubborn, competitive guy, and it must have been very, very hard to get those words out,'' said Jim Jordan, a former Kerry campaign manager.
 Senate colleagues and staff members say Mr. Kerry struggled to reintegrate himself in the Capitol after losing to Mr. Bush. He was never much a creature of the Senate to begin with, an outcast with few close friends there and a reputation for aloofness and occasional grandstanding. His solemn bearing betrayed a certain joylessness in his job. (''John Kerry walks into a bar,'' goes the Washington version of the old joke. ''Bartender says, 'Hey, Senator Kerry, why the long face?' '')
 Shortly after he returned to work, Mr. Reid gave him a stern talking-to and urged him, in so many words, to get off his high horse and rejoin the team, according to a senior Democratic staff member.
 But after laying the groundwork for a return engagement, Mr. Kerry stumbled just before November's midterm elections, when he told what he called a ''botched joke'' that appeared to denigrate the intelligence of American soldiers in Iraq. Democrats distanced themselves from him, Republicans ridiculed him, and Congressional candidates dumped him on the campaign trail.
 He was defiant, refusing to apologize at first, offering explanations that he was criticizing Mr. Bush and not the troops. But few people wanted to listen. '' 'Please stop it,'' Don Imus, the radio talk show host and a Kerry friend, urged him on the air. ''Stop talking. Go home.'' 
 As the 2008 presidential campaign takes shape, friends say it has annoyed Mr. Kerry to keep hearing about how formidable his onetime running mate, John Edwards, the former North Carolina senator, might be.
 Friends say that Mr. Kerry feels betrayed by Mr. Edwards, whom he defeated easily in the 2004 Democratic primaries and faults for being too quick to second-guess their campaign, distance himself from it and embark on his own 2008 effort.
 Mr. Edwards was also spared the flagellation that losing Democratic nominees typically endure. Republicans are kinder to their also-rans. Bob Dole lost to Bill Clinton in 1996, but has remained a gray eminence within the party. Barry Goldwater was slaughtered by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 but later became a patron saint of the conservative movement. Richard M. Nixon lost narrowly to John F. Kennedy in 1960 but ran again and won in 1968. 
 Mr. Kerry and his surrogates always emphasize how warmly he is still received whenever he ventures out of Washington. ''John was treated like a rock star in Switzerland,'' said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, who traveled to Davos, Switzerland, with Mr. Kerry and other colleagues last month for the World Economic Forum. 
 Of course, this is precisely the kind of compliment that feeds an impression of Mr. Kerry as a high-society jetsetter who is more at home overseas than among everyday Americans. Sure enough, Mr. Kerry was being pilloried anew by Republicans last week for saying in Davos that the United States had become an ''international pariah'' under Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Kerry genuinely seems not to care about such criticism these days. He still wears his burdens plainly, but the burdens could be shifting.
 ''You can be more focused when you're not running,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''You can actually get something done on the issues instead of running around as fast as you can.'' 
 He is still running plenty fast. Mr. Kerry is hard to catch up to, probably by design. He zooms by, gone before you know it. He was seen dashing through a press-crammed Capitol after President Bush's State of the Union address. 
 ''Can't now; got to go,'' Mr. Kerry said after a news conference about climate change last week. He was off to the Senate for a vote, then exited by another door 20 minutes later. 
 ''I'm running, I'm running,'' Mr. Kerry told a reporter. He boarded an elevator with fellow senators and fixed his gaze straight ahead.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry, a Senate loner, endures the peculiar pariah status that his party reserves for its losing nominees. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%) Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); TED KENNEDY (59%); KEN SALAZAR (59%); HARRY REID (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%) John (Sen) Kerry; Mark Leibovich

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



119 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Seeks Way to Find State Prisons He Can Close

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
Moving to reverse decades of expansion, Gov. Eliot Spitzer is proposing a commission to study closing some of New York State's dozens of prisons.
 The effort would try to duplicate for the prison system the recent commission that studied closing hospitals around the state and issued a final report late last year. That report recommended shutting down at least 20 hospitals across New York and shrinking or merging dozens of others.
If the new commission is approved by the Legislature, New York may join the growing number of states that have sought to rein in high prison costs through closings or consolidations.
 Behind Mr. Spitzer's proposal lies a recognition that New York's prison population, which peaked in 1999 at more than 71,000 inmates, has rapidly declined since. 
 Thanks to falling crime rates in New York City, fewer felony arrests and efforts by prison officials to move nonviolent offenders out of the system, the prison population has fallen by roughly 8,000 inmates since the peak, though it rose slightly last year.
 Assistants to the governor said he would also create, through an executive order, a second commission to study changes to sentencing laws. Such measures have helped shrink inmate ranks in other states and could in New York, too. 
 But any effort to close state prisons will face formidable political obstacles. New York's sprawling network of prisons has created thousands of jobs upstate, where manufacturing jobs have been slowly disappearing. 
 Much like New York's vast array of state-supported hospitals -- some of which lie more than half-empty for lack of demand -- the $2.7 billion-a-year state prison system has become, in effect, an economic development program.
 Mr. Spitzer hopes to replace the state-subsidized employment on which upstate New York depends with private-sector jobs and investment that could secure its future down the road. 
 But a powerful alliance of upstate lawmakers and correction officers' unions guard their constituents' and members' state-financed jobs and are likely to resist any effort to downsize the system. 
 A similar -- and even more influential -- alliance exists between health care unions, hospitals and Republican and Democratic lawmakers, some of them representing districts in which health care facilities, empty or not, are the largest employers. 
 Both the prison and health care coalitions have demonstrated their political potency in the past, mustering millions of dollars for campaign contributions and political ads to advance their agendas and punish politicians who have crossed them. 
 State corrections union officials say that they will make their views clear in the coming debate, too.
 ''We're not open to any closures at this point,'' said Lawrence Flanagan Jr., the president of the New York State Correctional Officers and Police Benevolent Association, which has donated at least $1.8 million to state politicians in recent years. 
 He added: ''If anything, the prison population has increased. It went up 500 this last year.''
 Likewise, many Republican state senators say they are dismayed at the possibility of sacrificing constituents' livelihoods in the short term to Mr. Spitzer's agenda, regardless of the long-term benefits he anticipates.
 ''I'm very concerned about the commission,'' said Senator Elizabeth O'C. Little, a Republican whose Adirondacks district includes 12 prisons and prison camps. Five of them are in Franklin County, which has roughly one inmate for every 10 residents, according to census figures, the highest concentration in the state.
 ''They have a tremendous economic impact,'' Ms. Little said. ''There are over 5,000 corrections officers living in my district. In most of these communities, the prisons are the biggest employer. It's not just corrections officers, but secretaries and other staff, too.''
 Indeed, between 1990 and 2006, according to research by the Public Policy Institute of New York State, two-thirds of the net new jobs upstate were paid for by taxpayers. That includes jobs in prisons, other government positions and some jobs in health care and social assistance.
 ''Up in the north country, you used to just think of hanging out a sign that says 'Prisons-R-Us,' '' said Kent Gardner, president of the Center for Governmental Research, based in Rochester. ''Pretty much every rural town in the state was angling for these facilities.'' 
 Little surprise, then, that some past efforts to close prisons have failed. Governor George E. Pataki tried repeatedly to include such closings in the state budget, only to have the Legislature reject those plans.
 Mr. Flanagan of the corrections union said that his group had been ''very, very forward and aggressive last year and in the year prior to that.'' 
 Lawmakers have acted, too, approving several measures in recent years to protect the prison system against rapid shrinkage. Under current law, before the state can close a prison it must give a year's notice to employees, and officials are required to explore options for converting prisons to other uses, such as low-cost housing. 
 ''In response to lobbying from the local upstate towns and the correction officers' union, the Legislature has made it much more difficult for the executive to close prisons, even after a time of significant decline in the population,'' said Robert Gangi, executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, an advocacy group for inmates.
 To end the stalemate on hospital closings, lawmakers eventually consented to put those decisions in the hands of a commission. Headed by the financier Stephen Berger, the hospital commission held a number of hearings and listened to hours of testimony from hospital officials and local leaders. 
 But the commission's final recommendations nevertheless set off a political firestorm, including at least one lawsuit. Now some lawmakers say they are reluctant to go down the same road with prison closings.
 ''I'm a little wary of the governor's proposal,'' said Senator George H. Winner Jr., a Republican whose district in the Southern Tier includes maximum-security prisons in Elmira and Southport. ''Just coming off of a rather arduous Berger Commission experience, I think the Legislature will look a little skeptically at whether or not this is the way to go.''
 In an interview, Laura Anglin, the governor's first deputy budget director, said a commission was the best way to reach a compromise on prisons with maximum public involvement. 
 ''It's always difficult to look at things like this,'' she said. ''That is why we thought we would go the commission route, so that there would be public involvement, it would require public hearings and that way get the issues out in the open instead of forcing something.''
 Both Mr. Spitzer and his staff have also stressed that no closings are imminent and that the creation of the commission itself, which would be wrapped into the state budget, must still past muster with the Legislature.
 ''We don't have any closures listed yet; we've only been here 31 days,'' the governor said last week in his budget address. ''I don't want to suggest that it's happening soon.''
 The question is whether it will happen at all. Although Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the Senate, has said he is open to a prison commission, other Republicans suggested that closings might not be their first concern. 
 ''We see that there is a growing need for more maximum-security cell space,'' said Senator Michael F. Nozzolio, chairman of the Senate committee that has jurisdiction over prisons. Though there are fewer nonviolent offenders in prisons, he said, too many dangerous inmates are still being housed in inadequate facilities.
 ''We also believe that there needs to be a more planned approach to this entire correctional system,'' Mr. Nozzolio said. ''We've requested and demanded and have yet to see, really, a real plan for full utilization.''
 Mr. Nozzolio also said that he planned to use upcoming confirmation hearings for Mr. Spitzer's criminal-justice appointees ''to gauge the administration's positions on these issues.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some areas with prisons, like Gabriels, N.Y., in the Adirondacks, could lose jobs if a commission is formed to recommend cost-saving shutdowns. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Map: ''Where the Inmates Are''Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to create a commission to study whether New York should close some of its correctional facilities has been met with dismay by many Republican senators upstate, who stress the prisons' economic importance to their districts.Maps of New York show the number of prisoners in each state Senate district and the prisoner population per capita in each county. (Sources by New York State Department of Correctional Facilities
 Prison Policy Initiative)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (96%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SENTENCING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); FELONIES (73%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); ARRESTS (68%); BUDGETS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Prisons and Prisoners; Shutdowns (Institutional); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Nicholas Confessore; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (70%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2007



120 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health&Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: A Small Part of the Brain, and Its Profound Effects

BYLINE: By SANDRA BLAKESLEE

 BODY:
The recent news about smoking was sensational: some people with damage to a prune-size slab of brain tissue called the insula were able to give up cigarettes instantly. 
 Suppose scientists could figure out how to tweak the insula without damaging it. They might be able to create that famed and elusive free lunch -- an effortless way to kick the cigarette habit.
That dream, which may not be too far off, puts the insula in the spotlight. What is the insula and how could it possibly exert such profound effects on human behavior?
 According to neuroscientists who study it, the insula is a long-neglected brain region that has emerged as crucial to understanding what it feels like to be human. 
 They say it is the wellspring of social emotions, things like lust and disgust, pride and humiliation, guilt and atonement. It helps give rise to moral intuition, empathy and the capacity to respond emotionally to music. 
 Its anatomy and evolution shed light on the profound differences between humans and other animals. 
 The insula also reads body states like hunger and craving and helps push people into reaching for the next sandwich, cigarette or line of cocaine. So insula research offers new ways to think about treating drug addiction, alcoholism, anxiety and eating disorders. 
 Of course, so much about the brain remains to be discovered that the insula's role may be a minor character in the play of the human mind. It is just now coming on stage.
 The activity of the insula in so many areas is something of a puzzle. ''People have had a hard time conceptualizing what the insula does,'' said Dr. Martin Paulus, a psychiatrist at the University of California, San Diego. 
 If it does everything, what exactly is it that it does? 
 For example, the insula ''lights up'' in brain scans when people crave drugs, feel pain, anticipate pain, empathize with others, listen to jokes, see disgust on someone's face, are shunned in a social settings, listen to music, decide not to buy an item, see someone cheat and decide to punish them, and determine degrees of preference while eating chocolate. 
 Damage to the insula can lead to apathy, loss of libido and an inability to tell fresh food from rotten. 
 The bottom line, according to Dr. Paulus and others, is that mind and body are integrated in the insula. It provides unprecedented insight into the anatomy of human emotions. 
 Of course, like every important brain structure, the insula -- there are actually two, one on each side of the brain -- does not act alone. It is part of multiple circuits. 
 The insula itself is a sort of receiving zone that reads the physiological state of the entire body and then generates subjective feelings that can bring about actions, like eating, that keep the body in a state of internal balance. Information from the insula is relayed to other brain structures that appear to be involved in decision making, especially the anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortices. 
 The insula was long ignored for two reasons, researchers said. First, because it is folded and tucked deep within the brain, scientists could not probe it with shallow electrodes. It took the invention of brain imaging techniques, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, or fMRI, to watch it in action. 
 Second, the insula was ''assigned to the brain's netherworld,'' said John Allman, a neuroscientist at the California Institute of Technology. It was mistakenly defined as a primitive part of the brain involved only in functions like eating and sex. Ambitious scientists studied higher, more rational parts of the brain, he said. 
 The insula emerged from darkness a decade ago when Antonio Damasio, a neuroscientist now at the University of Southern California, developed the so-called somatic marker hypothesis, the idea that rational thinking cannot be separated from feelings and emotions. The insula, he said, plays a starring role. 
 Another neuroscientist, Arthur D. Craig at the Barrow Neurological Institute in Phoenix, went on to describe exactly the circuitry that connects the body to the insula. 
 According to Dr. Craig, the insula receives information from receptors in the skin and internal organs. Such receptors are nerve cells that specialize in different senses. Thus there are receptors that detect heat, cold, itch, pain, taste, hunger, thirst, muscle ache, visceral sensations and so-called air hunger, the need to breathe. The sense of touch and the sense of the body's position in space are routed to different brain regions, he said. 
 All mammals have insulas that read their body condition, Dr. Craig said. Information about the status of the body's tissues and organs is carried from the receptors along distinct spinal pathways, into the brain stem and up to the posterior insula in the higher brain or cortex. 
 As such, all mammals have emotions, defined as sensations that provoke motivations. If an animal is hot, it seeks shade. If hungry, it looks for food. If hurt, it licks the wound.
 But animals are not thought to have subjective feelings in the way that humans do, Dr. Craig said. Humans, and to a lesser degree the great apes, have evolved two innovations to their insulas that take this system of reading body states to a new level. 
 One involves circuitry, the other a brand new type of brain cell.
 In humans, information about the body's state takes a slightly different route inside the brain, picking up even more signals from the gut, the heart, the lungs and other internal organs. Then the human brain takes an extra step, Dr. Craig said. The information on bodily sensations is further routed to the front part of the insula, especially on the right side, which has undergone a huge expansion in humans and apes.
 It is in the frontal insula, Dr. Craig said, that simple body states or sensations are recast as social emotions. A bad taste or smell is sensed in the frontal insula as disgust. A sensual touch from a loved one is transformed into delight. 
 The frontal insula is where people sense love and hate, gratitude and resentment, self-confidence and embarrassment, trust and distrust, empathy and contempt, approval and disdain, pride and humiliation, truthfulness and deception, atonement and guilt. 
 People who are better at reading these sensations -- a quickened heart beat, a flushed face, slow breathing -- score higher on psychological tests of empathy, researchers have found. The second major modification to the insula is a type of cell found in only humans, great apes, whales and possibly elephants, Dr. Allman said. Humans have by far the greatest number of these cells, which are called VENs, short for Von Economo neurons, named for the scientist who first described them in 1925. VENs are large cigar-shaped cells tapered at each end, and they are found exclusively in the frontal insula and anterior cingulate cortex. 
 Exactly what VENs are doing within this critical circuit is not yet known, Dr. Allman said. But they are in the catbird seat for turning feelings and emotions into actions and intentions. 
 The human insula, with its souped-up anatomy, is also important for processing events that have yet to happen, Dr. Paulus said. ''When you decide to go outside on a cold day, your body gets ready before you hit the cold air,'' he said. ''It starts pumping blood to where you need it and adjusts your metabolism. Your insula tells you what it will feel like before you step outside.'' 
 The same goes for drug addicts. When an addict is confronted with sights, sounds, smells, situations or other stimuli associated with drug use, the insula is activated before using the drug. 
 ''If you give cocaine to an addict, you are affecting their brain's reward system, but this is not what drives the person to keep using cocaine,'' Dr. Paulus said. The craving is what gets people to use.
 For example, smokers enjoy whole-body effects, said Nasir Naqvi, a student at the University of Iowa Medical Scientist Training Program, who was the lead author of the recent article on smoking. It is not just nicotine binding to parts of the brain, he said, but sensations -- heart rate, blood pressure, a tickle in the lungs, a taste in the mouth, the position of the hands, all the rituals. 
 The insula's importance makes it an ideal target for many kinds of treatment, Dr. Paulus said, including drugs and sophisticated biofeedback. But methods to quell insular activity must be approached carefully, he said. People might lose the craving to smoke, drink alcohol or take other drugs, but they could simultaneously lose interest in sex, food and work. 
 As clinicians explore the possibilities, Dr. Craig is thinking about the insula in grander terms. 
 For example, lesions in the frontal insula can wipe out the ability to appreciate the emotional content of music. It may also be involved in the human sense of the progress of time, since it can create an anticipatory signal of how people may feel as opposed to how they feel now. Intensely emotional moments can affect our sense of time. It may stand still, and that may be happening in the insula, a crossroads of time and desire.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); SMOKING (90%); BRAIN (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); COCAINE (66%); EATING DISORDERS (65%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (65%) Brain; Research; Weight; Alcohol Abuse; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Emotions

PERSON: Sandra Blakeslee

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



121 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: For Wolves, a Recovery May Not Be the Blessing It Seems

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: HELENA, Mont., Feb. 5 

 BODY:
The news for the wolf last week was the opposite of a cloud with a silver lining. At first glance, it seems like a win for conservation that wolves are now successful enough that the United States Fish and Wildlife Service proposed taking wolves in Idaho and Montana off the endangered species list. 
 But the price of success may be high. In Idaho, the governor is ready to have hunters reduce the wolf population in the state from 650 to 100, the minimum that will keep the animal off the endangered species list. ''I'm prepared to bid for that first ticket to shoot a wolf myself,'' Gov. C. L. Otter said, according to The Associated Press. 
Of all the protected and endangered species in the United States, none has provoked stronger feelings than the wolf, reviled or revered, depending on the person. And few have been as visible a success. The proposed delisting, as it is called, comes because the population of wolves in the northern Rocky Mountains is surging. 
 It is growing in other states as well, including Wyoming. But wolves in that state will continue to have federal protections under the Endangered Species Act, federal officials say, because the state's policies are not adequate to keep the wolf from becoming endangered again.
 ''The service is committed to ensuring that wolves thrive in the northern Rocky Mountains after they are delisted, and will continue to work with the states to ensure this successful recovery is maintained,'' said H. Dale Hall, director of the Fish and Wildlife Service. The public has 60 days to comment after the proposal is published, probably sometime next week.
 At the same time, the service announced that the delisting process for wolves in Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota was complete. At 4,000 total, the wolf population in those states is considered fully recovered, and the comment period is finished. 
 Many people in the northern Rockies would like to see large numbers of wolves killed as soon as possible, which is why Defenders of Wildlife, an environmental group that played a pivotal role in the wolf's return, opposes the delisting. 
 ''We don't support the delisting at this time,'' said Jamie Clark, executive vice president of the group. ''Hunting is fine. But you have to be judicious about where you hunt and when you hunt. Wyoming and Idaho say they are going to kill wolves, but there's no mention of population science or monitoring. Its politics, not science.'' She said the group was not ruling out a lawsuit to keep the delisting from going forward.
 Ms. Clark is also critical of the lack of protection afforded wolves that find their way from the Rockies to Oregon, Washington and Utah, where there are very few of them. 
 On the other hand, some officials say that federal protection has resulted in far too many wolves and that delisting is needed to cull the excess. 
 Hunters and state officials throughout the region say the animals are decimating elk herds, and ranchers say they kill too many livestock. 
 Wyoming officials also adamantly oppose some federally imposed protections and refuse to adopt them, which is why animals there aren't proposed for delisting. While wolves in the wilderness areas around Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks are managed as trophy animals, the state wants wolves outside those areas to be classified as predators, which means that they could be shot without any state regulation. 
 State officials feel that their hands are tied when it come to controlling wolves that prey on wildlife. ''Our elk population is showing decline, and we're concerned about those declines,'' said Terry Cleveland, director of the Wyoming Game and Fish Department. 
 Wolves also chase large herds of elk that are fed on feed grounds operated by the state. Because the elk are fed in large numbers, they have high levels of a disease called brucellosis. If wolves scatter them, Mr. Cleveland said, they end up in cattle herds and may spread the disease. 
 Some people have been spooked by close encounters with wolves. In Idaho, Forest Service employees called for a helicopter rescue when they were surrounded by howling wolves, and a man collecting elk horns said he was stalked by wolves. But there are plenty of people in the West who love the re-established populations. People flock to Yellowstone to watch wolves hunt and play in the wild, and one economist estimates that the wolf watchers leave behind $35 million annually.
 If the wolf is delisted, state wildlife agencies will assume full responsibility. They already have most of the management responsibility in Montana and Idaho for the endangered wolf.
 The Fish and Wildlife Service does not walk away. If wolf numbers fall below the limits set in the recovery goal, the service could undertake an emergency relisting and take back authority from the states. 
 Nonetheless, there may well be a large-scale reduction of wolves in store. Governor Otter said wolf kills of elk were hurting Idaho's hunting economy.
 A bill has been introduced in the Idaho Legislature to allow hunters to take wolves for a $26.50 license fee. That is well within a state's prerogative, federal officials say, as long as minimum numbers are maintained. ''Any wolves above that, it's up to the state to manage,'' said Ed Bangs, coordinator for the wolf recovery project at the Fish and Wildlife Service. 
 Wolves that get into trouble killing livestock, and there are plenty, are hunted now by federal agents, usually from airplanes. Last year, 12 percent of the total population was killed. A hunting season is seen as a way to control wolves after delisting in all states.
 There have been declines in elk and responses from angry hunters near Yellowstone as well. Before wolves were reintroduced in January 1995, there were 19,000 elk in the park's northern herd. Those numbers have declined by about 6 percent a year. In December, biologists counted 6,738 elk in that herd during an annual survey. 
 ''There are a few areas where elk are impacted,'' said Mr. Bangs, who has led the reintroduction effort since it began. ''But so far it's been in the not-a-big-impact realm in most places.''
 Part of the perception, he said, is that elk may be harder to hunt. ''Research shows that when they are stalked by wolves, elk behave more like wild animals than livestock. They are more alert and spook easier and so hunting is more difficult.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOVE, HATE -- The plan to remove wolves in Idaho from the endangered species list prompted residents to rally outside the State Capitol. The state's wolf population is now around 650. (Photos by Top, Jim and Jamie Dutcher/National Geographic -- Getty Images
 above, Joe Jaszewski/Idaho Statesman, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (92%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); MOUNTAINS (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ANIMALS (77%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LITIGATION (60%) Wolves; Endangered and Extinct Species; Elk ; Hunting and Trapping; Livestock; Wolves

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (84%); DEFENDERS OF WILDLIFE (59%) Fish and Wildlife Service; Defenders of Wildlife

PERSON: Jim Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: HELENA, MT, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (96%); MONTANA, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (93%); WYOMING, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Idaho; Montana

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



122 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; SCIENTIST AT WORK: Susan Solomon; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Melding Science and Diplomacy to Run a Global Climate Review

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
More than a few scientists think that Susan Solomon must be a glutton for punishment. 
 Who in her right mind would want to detour from doing world-class atmospheric research at a laboratory tucked under the Rockies to be a co-leader of a years-long, largely administrative review by hundreds of experts from dozens of countries of existing studies on the atmosphere? Dr. Solomon, who won a National Medal of Science in 1999 for linking synthetic chemicals to the seasonal ozone hole over Antarctica, nonetheless chose that course in 2002.
''Thomas Jefferson once said something like, 'Science is my passion, politics my duty,' '' Dr. Solomon, 51, said Sunday in a telephone interview. ''That's probably how I think about it, too. Science does have a duty, when called upon, to provide information that's important to society the best way it can.'' 
 In place of making expeditions to the South Pole and Greenland, her old stomping grounds, she spent chunks of the last five years hunkered in gray buildings in Beijing, New Delhi, Marrakech and Paris running meeting after meeting of experts from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 
 The panel was convened by the United Nations in 1988 -- a year of record heat, burning forests and the first big headlines about greenhouse gases and global warming -- to provide regular reviews of climate science to governments to inform policy choices. 
 Dr. Solomon, a senior scientist for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and Qin Dahe, head of the Chinese meteorological agency, were charged with generating the fourth report and summary since 1990 of advances in climate science. The final editing of the 20-page summary through four days and nights last week involved approval by 113 governments. Several participants credited Dr. Solomon with ensuring that last-minute demands, particularly from China and the United States, did not derail the process or distort the science. 
 Dr. Solomon and many colleagues defend this procedure, melding science and diplomacy, as a way to give nations some ownership of the results and, thus, responsibility for reflecting the findings in policies. But others see it as an opportunity for political meddling.
 The summary , released on Friday in Paris, was the first from the group to pinpoint with greater than 90 percent certainty that humans had become the main force driving warming and that centuries of increasing temperatures and seas could be blunted only if emissions of heat-trapping gases were promptly reduced. At a news conference in Paris on Friday, United Nations officials quickly called for action to cut emissions and limit catastrophic effects, particularly on the poorest countries. 
 When a reporter asked Dr. Solomon ''to sum up what kind of urgency this sort of report should convey to policy makers,'' she gave the furthest thing from a convenient sound bite.
 ''I can only give you something that's going to disappoint you, sir, and that is that it's my personal scientific approach to say it's not my role to try to communicate what should be done,'' Dr. Solomon said. ''I believe that is a societal choice. I believe science is one input to that choice, and I also believe that science can best serve society by refraining from going beyond its expertise.
 ''In my view, that's what the I.P.C.C. also is all about, namely not trying to make policy-prescriptive statements, but policy-relevant statements.''
 Almost immediately, and predictably, the findings were criticized by both sides in the debate over what to do, or not do, about human effects on the climate. Politicians and groups with links to industries that oppose restrictions on greenhouse gases said the report played down uncertainties and relied too much on murky computer models. 
 Some scientists and groups pushing for aggressive cuts in the gases said the panel was much too conservative in some projections, particularly in assessing how much melting of ice sheets might raise sea levels in the next 100 years. Some scientists expressed frustration with Dr. Solomon for not making a stronger statement on the conclusions. 
 ''As we all know, Susan is an outstanding scientist, and everybody has to make their own decision how to react to more political questions,'' Robert T. Watson, the chief scientist of the World Bank and a former chairman of the panel, wrote in an e-mail message. ''Ducking the question of what is needed did weaken the impact of the report to many observers. However, Susan could argue that her neutrality on the policy question provides her greater credibility as an unbiased scientist and chair.''
 In the interview, Dr. Solomon was steadfast. She said: ''I take the view that I'll talk about science, but that policy is a collective decision. There are a lot of different ways different people view this. This is reflective of the fact that scientists are human beings like everyone else.''
 Dr. Solomon, who fell in love with science at age 9 after watching Jacques Cousteau's films about the sea, said she was unfazed by the pressures of working on the panel. 
 She faces months of additional work on reports related to the summary. After that, she said, she plans to take a little time off and, for the first time, really, enjoy the Rocky Mountains around her base in Boulder, Colo.
 ''I'm going to learn how to fish,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Solomon in Antarctica, where she studied chemicals and the ozone hole. (Photo by NOAA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); METEOROLOGY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WEATHER (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); OZONE DEPLETION (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); APPROVALS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Weather; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Global Warming; Research; Weather

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (82%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; World Bank

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin; Susan (Dr) Solomon; Robert T (Dr) Watson

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (55%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANTARCTICA (72%); FRANCE (70%); INDIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



123 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Orbiting Junk, Once a Nuisance, Is Now a Threat

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
For decades, space experts have worried that a speeding bit of orbital debris might one day smash a large spacecraft into hundreds of pieces and start a chain reaction, a slow cascade of collisions that would expand for centuries, spreading chaos through the heavens. 
 In the last decade or so, as scientists came to agree that the number of objects in orbit had surpassed a critical mass -- or, in their terms, the critical spatial density, the point at which a chain reaction becomes inevitable -- they grew more anxious.
Early this year, after a half-century of growth, the federal list of detectable objects (four inches wide or larger) reached 10,000, including dead satellites, spent rocket stages, a camera, a hand tool and junkyards of whirling debris left over from chance explosions and destructive tests. 
 Now, experts say, China's test on Jan. 11 of an antisatellite rocket that shattered an old satellite into hundreds of large fragments means the chain reaction will most likely start sooner. If their predictions are right, the cascade could put billions of dollars' worth of advanced satellites at risk and eventually threaten to limit humanity's reach for the stars. 
 Federal and private experts say that early estimates of 800 pieces of detectable debris from the shattering of the satellite will grow to nearly 1,000 as observations continue by tracking radars and space cameras. At either number, it is the worst such episode in space history.
 Today, next year or next decade, some piece of whirling debris will start the cascade, experts say. 
 ''It's inevitable,'' said Nicholas L. Johnson, chief scientist for orbital debris at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ''A significant piece of debris will run into an old rocket body, and that will create more debris. It's a bad situation.''
 Geoffrey E. Forden, an arms expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is analyzing the Chinese satellite debris, said China perhaps failed to realize the magnitude of the test's indirect hazards.
 Dr. Forden suggested that Chinese engineers might have understood the risks but failed to communicate them. In China, he said, ''the decision process is still so opaque that maybe they didn't know who to talk to. Maybe you have a disconnect between the engineers and the people who think about policy.''
 China, experts note, has 39 satellites of its own -- many of them now facing a heightened risk of destruction.
 Politically, the situation is delicate. In recent years China has played a growing international role in fighting the proliferation of space junk. In 2002, for instance, it joined with other spacefaring nations to suggest voluntary guidelines for debris control.
 In April, Beijing is to play host to the annual meeting of the advocacy group, known as the Inter-Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee. Donald J. Kessler, a former head of the orbital debris program at NASA and a pioneer analyst of the space threat, said Chinese officials at the forum would probably feel ''some embarrassment.''
 Mr. Kessler said Western analysts agreed that China's new satellite fragments would speed the chain reaction's onset. ''If the Chinese didn't do the test, it would still happen,'' he said. ''It just wouldn't happen as quickly.''
 Last week in Beijing, a foreign ministry spokeswoman failed to respond directly to a debris question. Asked if the satellite's remains would threaten other spacecraft, she asserted that China's policy was to keep space free of weapons.
 ''We are ready to strengthen international cooperation in this regard,'' the spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, told reporters.
 Cascade warnings began as early as 1978. Mr. Kessler and his NASA colleague, Burton G. Cour-Palais, wrote in The Journal of Geophysical Research that speeding junk that formed more junk would produce ''an exponential increase in the number of objects with time, creating a belt of debris around the Earth.''
 During the cold war, Moscow and Washington generally ignored the danger and, from 1968 to 1986, conducted more than 20 tests of antisatellite arms that created clouds of jagged scraps. Often, they did so at low altitudes from which the resulting debris soon plunged earthward. Still, the number of objects grew as more nations launched rockets and satellites into orbit.
 In 1995, as the count passed 8,000, the National Academy of Sciences warned in a thick report that some crowded orbits appeared to have already reached the ''critical density'' needed to sustain a chain reaction.
 A year later, apprehension rose as the fuel tank of an abandoned American rocket engine exploded, breaking the craft into 713 detectable fragments -- until now, the record.
 Amid such developments, space experts identified the first collisions that threatened to start a chain reaction, putting analysts increasingly on edge.
 On Jan. 17, 2005, for instance, a piece of speeding debris from an exploded Chinese rocket collided with a derelict American rocket body that had been shot into space 31 years earlier. Warily, investigators searched though orbital neighborhoods but found to their relief that the crackup had produced only four pieces of detectable debris.
 A year later, Mr. Johnson, the chief scientist for NASA's orbital debris program, and his colleague J. -C. Liou, published an article in the journal Science that detailed the growing threat. They said orbits were now so cluttered that the chain reaction was sure to start even if spacefaring nations refrained from launching any more spacecraft.
 ''The environment is unstable,'' they wrote, ''and collisions will become the most dominant debris-generating mechanism.''
 It was in this atmosphere of rising tension that China last month fired a rocket into space that shattered an old weather satellite -- its first successful test of an antisatellite weapon.
 David C. Wright, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a private group in Cambridge, Mass., calculated that the old satellite had broken into 1,000 fragments four inches wide or larger, and millions of smaller ones.
 Federal sky-watchers who catalogue objects in the Earth orbit work slowly and deliberately. As of yesterday, they publicly listed 647 detectable pieces of the satellite but were said to be tracking hundreds more.
 The breakup was dangerous because the satellite's orbit was relatively high, some 530 miles up. That means the debris will remain in space for tens, thousands or even millions of years.
 Mr. Kessler, the former NASA official, now a private consultant in Asheville, N.C., said China might have chosen a relatively high target to avoid directly threatening the International Space Station and its astronaut crew, which orbit at a height of about 220 miles.
 ''Maybe the choice was to endanger the station in the short term or to cause a long-term problem,'' he said. ''Maybe that forced them to raise the orbit.''
 Even so, the paths of the speeding Chinese debris, following the laws of physics and of celestial mechanics, expanded in many directions, including upward and downward. As of last week, outliers from the central cloud stretched from roughly 100 miles to more than 2,000 miles above the Earth.
 A solution to the cascade threat exists but is costly. In his Science paper and in recent interviews, Mr. Johnson of NASA argued that the only sure answer was environmental remediation, including the removal of existing large objects from orbit.
 Robots might install rocket engines to send dead spacecraft careering back into the atmosphere, or ground-based lasers might be used to zap debris.
 The bad news, Mr. Johnson said in his paper, is that ''for the near term, no single remediation technique appears to be both technically feasible and economically viable.''
 If nothing is done, a kind of orbital crisis might ensue that is known as the Kessler Syndrome, after Mr. Kessler. A staple of science fiction, it holds that the space around Earth becomes so riddled with junk that launchings are almost impossible. Vehicles that entered space would quickly be destroyed.
 In an interview, Mr. Kessler called the worst-case scenario an exaggeration. ''It's been overdone,'' he said of the syndrome.
 Still, he warned of an economic barrier to space exploration that could arise. To fight debris, he said, designers will have to give spacecraft more and more shielding, struggling to protect the craft from destruction and making them heavier and more costly in the process.
 At some point, he said, perhaps centuries from now, the costs will outweigh the benefits.
 ''It gets more and more expensive,'' he said. ''Sooner or later it gets too expensive to do business in space.''

GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustrations by David Constantine/The New York Times)(pg. F1
F4))Chart/Diagram: EARTH ORBIT ON FEB. 6, 2007, 9 A.M. E.S.T.Each dot represents a man-made object larger than 4 inchesDiagram shows:The Relay 2 communication satellite, at right, was launched by the United States on Jan. 21, 1964 and stopped working three years later.Debris from rocket used to launch Relay 2, left.The Hubble Space Telescope, launched in 1990, orbits at an altitude of 380 miles.In service from 1963 to 1977, the U.S.'s Midas 6 satellite was designed to detect launched intercontinental ballistic missiles.Rocket debris, pictured at right, from when the Atlantis space shuttle launched a satellite from space in 1991.Commercial communications satellite launched in June 1999.Former Soviet Union communication satellite, launched in 1986 and now broken.Part of Russia's version of the Global Positioning System, this satellite was launched in 1991.International Space StationSPACECRAFTThere are more than 3,100 spacecraft orbiting Earth. Two-thirds of these are no longer active.OLD DEBRISNearly 7,000 pieces of man-made debris are large enough to be tracked.NEW DEBRISThe satellite destroyed by China last month has left nearly 1,000 pieces of large debris.NEW DEBRIS ON JAN. 11, 2007The remnants from the Chinese satellite are quickly dispersing in Earth's orbit. More than half the spacecraft in orbit now pass through its debris field.Five minutes after impactThe one-ton satellite was at an altitude of 530 miles when struck at 18,000 miles per hour.One hour after impactDebris quickly spread into higher orbits, where most of it will stay for decades.One day after impactWithin a day, the debris had encased the Earth, concentrated mostly at the original altitude.One month after impactAs time passes, the debris field will continue to grow as pieces separate from one another.Size of objects greatly magnified for visibilty.(Source by STK software graphics courtesy of Center for Space Standards and Innovation [CenterForSpace.com]
NASA [photos])(pg. F1)Chart/Diagram: ''Debris Danger''As the amount of debris, pictured above, orbiting Earth increases, so does the danger to spacecraft. During an eight-year period ending in 2002, the solar panels on the Hubble Space Telescope were struck by debris at least 725,000 times. Five thousand impacts left craters and holes large enough to be seen by the naked eye.OBJECTS IN EARTH ORBIT4 inches or largerSeptember 1985 -- An American anti-satellite test caused the Solwind spacecraft to break up into 285 pieces.November 1986 -- An Ariane rocket body breaks into nearly 500 piecesJune 1996 -- An abandoned American rocket body explodes.Jan. 11, 2007 -- Chinese satellite shot down.(Sources by Nicholas Johnson, NASA
 Gerhard Drolshagen, European Space Agency)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%) Space; Waste Materials and Disposal; Satellites; Telescopes and Observatories; Rockets and Rocket Propulsion; Research; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Space

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: William J Broad; Nicholas L Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) EARTH (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



124 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: A New Problem for Farmers: Veterinarians in Short Supply

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: GORHAM, Me. 

 BODY:
Rainbow had the bad luck to try to have a baby on a Thursday.
 Thursday was her doctor's day off, and there was no one else for miles who could handle a complicated breech birth, not when the mother was a Holstein cow.
 ''Had the vet been here, we could have done a C-section and she could have lived through it fine,'' said Becki Benson, the owner, with her husband, Eddie, of Rainbow and 150 other dairy cows.
 Instead, ''I worked on her till I was just exhausted,'' Mr. Benson said. ''But I ended up having to take the cow to a butcher shop, where she got processed for hamburger.''
 These days, the Bensons' veterinarian is pretty much the only cow doctor in a 1,300-square-mile swath of Maine, and one of only about 30 large-animal veterinarians left in the entire state. 
 And across the country, veterinarians who care for the animals that provide the United States with food are in increasingly short supply.
 For one, there is generally more money to be made caring for cats and dogs. And with fewer students from farm backgrounds, fewer gravitate to rural jobs, especially if a spouse needs work, too. Large-animal care can be tough, even dangerous -- think of maneuvering in frigid weather around 1,000-pound cows in manure-filled pens. And more veterinarians are women, generally less inclined toward large animals.
 Since 1990, the number of veterinarians focusing on large animals has dropped to fewer than 4,500 from nearly 6,000, according to the American Veterinary Medical Association, which said those doctors now made up less than 10 percent of private-practice veterinarians. A recent study predicted that by 2016, 4 out of every 100 food-animal veterinary jobs would go unfilled.
 ''We look at it as a crisis,'' said Dr. Roger Mahr, the association's president, who cited serious consequences not only for the well-being of farmers and animals, but also potentially for food safety and the impact of non-native diseases like bird flu.
 ''Of all the emerging diseases in people in the last 25 years, 75 percent of those were transmitted from animals,'' Dr. Mahr said. ''Veterinarians are the ones to identify those diseases in animals first.''
 Pressed to address the problem, Congress enacted a law in 2004 offering to repay the student loans of veterinarians working in underserved areas, but it has received little financing.
 States are jumping in, with loan repayment or grant programs under way or proposed in Kansas, Maine, Missouri, North Dakota, Texas and elsewhere.
 In Iowa, students at the state's veterinary school formed Vsmart, which barnstorms county fairs and 4-H meetings to entice teenagers to become rural veterinarians.
 And in Oklahoma, State Representative Don Armes, Republican of Faxon, has introduced a bill offering tax breaks to large-animal veterinarians. Mr. Armes, a cattleman, knows the shortage firsthand, especially after one Friday last summer when a heifer struggled to deliver a large calf.
 ''I called six different veterinarians and could not get any of them,'' Mr. Armes said. ''We lost the calf. Almost lost the heifer.''
 The dearth of food-animal veterinarians (the shortage is not as critical for horses) reflects seismic shifts in farming, veterinary medicine, the economy and American culture. 
 Money is critical when veterinary students graduate $100,000 in debt. While some say salaries can be the same, no matter the animal size, many say small-animal practices are more profitable, allowing for dozens of clinic appointments daily instead of requiring trips of long distances between farms and ranches. And dog or cat owners more often pay for expensive surgery and treatment.
 ''For Fifi the family dog, you'll spend $1,500 or $2,000,'' Mr. Armes said. ''That old cow -- at some point economics kick in and you say if she's going to cost $1,500, I can buy two cows for that, so I should have shot her.''
 Tembra Gatlin, 27, who was reared on an Oklahoma ranch, started veterinary school ''large animal all the way,'' she said.
 She changed her mind after doing ''a C-section on a cow and it's 50 bucks,'' Ms. Gatlin said. ''Do a C-section on a Chihuahua and you get $300. It's the money. I hate to say that.''
 A study by the American Veterinary Medical Association found the median starting salary of large-animal veterinarians to be $60,500, $11,000 less than that of small-animal veterinarians. For veterinarians practicing 25 years, the gap was even wider: $98,500 for large-animal practitioners, $122, 500 for small.
 In Maine, the closing of about 250 dairy farms since 1993 makes it harder to attract new veterinarians and leaves remaining farm doctors overstretched.
 ''If you can't get a vet or it's so expensive because they have to travel such a distance, farmers end up just dealing with it themselves, and in a lot of cases that's not a good idea,'' said Dr. Donald Hoenig, Maine's state veterinarian.
 Timothy Leary, a farmer in Saco, Me., nearly lost a cow with a prolapsed uterus when no veterinarian was available. ''You either eat your mistakes or you bury them, if you literally can't get anyone,'' Mr. Leary said. Even the small-animal clinic where Mr. Leary's wife is a technician could not help him. 
 Dr. Dennis M. Brewster treated animals of the Bensons' and other farmers until a few years ago, when he felt forced to switch to dogs and cats because he could not find another large-animal doctor to help cover emergencies.
 ''I just didn't want to face all of these dear people and tell them that I could not come to their farm for an emergency, and then when I showed up have them say, 'You know that prize cow you didn't come for died,' '' he said. ''Now, some farmers have had to make hard decisions. They've had to kill cows for things that we used to fix.''
 The Bensons, who raise valuable cows for breeding as well as milking, now shoulder many veterinary responsibilities, giving cows antibiotics for mastitis and intravenous calcium for milk fever.
 Their current veterinarian, Dr. Becky Myers, 52, worked for years round the clock.
 ''Half killed myself,'' Dr. Myers said. Back problems developed. A cow broke her hand.
 When she had a baby son, farmers with sick animals ''would be pushing the stroller around while I was pushing a cow's uterus back in. I used to call people in the middle of the night to come over and watch him when a farmer called. He gave me the nickname Mommy Moo.''
 Three times she managed to hire partners, but they either left Maine or large-animal care. In 2003, Dr. Myers said, she scaled back to four 10-hour days, ''which people here consider to be part time.'' 
 Before reducing her hours, Dr. Myers held a training session for farmers, providing a detailed manual with tips on giving cows anesthesia and pumping their stomachs. Her schedule is still packed. One recent day was spent vaccinating calves for brucellosis, helping a sheep give birth, poking into a heifer's uterus to determine pregnancy, inserting magnets into a sick cow to attract metal fragments it might have swallowed and examining an arthritic goat whose owner had driven 70 miles because no doctor was nearer.
 But with so few counterparts -- one of the closest is Doc Cooper, 80, an hour's drive north -- ''people get stuck and I feel really bad about it,'' she said. ''It was one of those decisions -- is my health and my family life more important or less important than somebody's cow?''
 Dr. Myers once visited the Bensons every 10 days; now it is once a month. They understand her need to cut back. Still, just in the last month, one cow, Darling, had a foot problem the Bensons could not diagnose. Another, Karissa, had mastitis, but the Bensons initially misdiagnosed the strain and gave the wrong antibiotic, delaying her recovery and milk production.
 And Alpha, a cow worth thousands of dollars, became weak and feverish after miscarrying twins, unfortunately on a weekend. When the Bensons tried moving her to a comfortable pen, she literally dropped dead.
 ''The fact that there's nothing you can do, you accept it as a business expense now,'' Mr. Benson said. ''You didn't used to. If you have livestock, sooner or later you're going to have deadstock.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Becky Myers, a large-animal veterinarian in Maine, treating a cow. (Photos by Linda Coan O'Kresik for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Becki Benson, with some of the 150 cows she and her husband, Eddie, own in Gorham, Me. The Bensons have had to take on more medical care. (Photos by Linda Coan O'Kresik for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERINARY SERVICES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (77%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (72%); CATS (72%); DOGS (72%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (91%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



125 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: When a Visa Becomes a Headache

BYLINE: By SARA J. WELCH

 BODY:
Last summer, Dimitry Smirnov, a sales director in Moscow, was planning to attend a conference in New York City being held by his employer, HelmsBriscoe, an American company that helps clients book sites for meetings. To get a visa, Mr. Smirnov made an appointment at the United States Embassy about four weeks before his meeting for an in-person interview, a requirement introduced after Sept. 11, 2001. It was when he showed up, he said, that he became frustrated. 
 ''The embassy wanted to hold my passport while they waited for the visa to come through, but they couldn't guarantee I'd get the visa,'' he recalled. ''In the meantime, I wouldn't have been able to travel and I didn't know if I'd get the visa or not, so I decided to cancel my trip.'' 
Mr. Smirnov is hardly the only executive to have been thwarted by stringent requirements for entry into the United States. Travelers from emerging economies like India, China, Latin America, the Middle East and Eastern Europe are required to have visas to come to the United States (citizens of Western Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan and Singapore do not require a visa for visits shorter than 90 days) and many complain that the process deters them from traveling here. 
 Luis Gomez Hernandez, a meeting planner in Ecatepec de Morelos, Mexico, said he used to bring groups of 30 to 40 businesspeople to the United States four times a year, but stopped in 2003 because of the difficulty in obtaining visas. It took up to three months for applicants to get an appointment at the United States Embassy or a consulate and at least two more weeks to obtain the visa, ''and in a group of 40, only 3 or 4 would get them,'' he said. Mr. Gomez added that he now took groups to Canada, which does not require visas for Mexican citizens. 
 In November, the Discover America Partnership, an association of travel industry executives, surveyed more than 2,000 international travelers and found that the United States was considered the least welcoming destination, by a ratio of greater than two to one. Thirty-nine percent of respondents selected the United States as having the ''worst'' entry process, followed by the Middle East, cited by 16 percent of respondents. 
 Geoff Freeman, the executive director of the partnership, said that just 2 percent of survey respondents ranked Canada as the worst. ''I find that especially telling,'' he said. ''You have two countries right next to each other, very culturally similar, both threatened by terrorism, and one appears to be finding a way to strike a balance between security and entry that is far more appealing to world travelers.'' 
 ''We talk about security,'' he said, ''but if people can't come here for meetings or to look at U.S. products they want to buy, and so choose to do business with another country instead, that's a threat to America's economic security.'' 
 United States government officials, however, insist that the process has improved greatly in recent years. Changes added after Sept. 11, 2001 ''came so quickly that we weren't as efficient as we wanted to be,'' said Maura Harty, assistant secretary for consular affairs in the State Department. ''But we now have an expedited service for business travel visas in place in every U.S. consulate and embassy in the world.'' 
 Ms. Harty said that only 29 percent of the respondents in the Discover America Partnership survey had applied for a visa in the last 18 months. ''I urge people who haven't applied for a visa in a few years to come back,'' she said. ''Try us, you'll like us.'' 
 But Gary Shapiro, president and chief executive of the Consumer Electronics Association, disagreed. He said the Consumer Electronics Show, which his organization put on last month in Las Vegas, had 24,000 attendees from overseas (out of a total of 140,000), ''but we probably would have gotten 40,000 if the visa process were not so challenging.'' For example, he said, 40 people came from China, ''but they told me an additional 10, including the most senior-ranking person, were denied visas.'' 
 Mr. Shapiro -- who said he lobbied the government on this issue ''all the time'' -- added that his foreign attendees described the visa application process as ''demeaning.''
 ''Imagine if, before you traveled somewhere, you had to fly to another city to get permission to get a document, wait in line for hours, bring a financial statement of your net worth and everything you own, pay $100, wait a month, and then get a yes or no, with no explanation why,'' he said. ''Our visa policies are discouraging international business in the United States and giving other countries a competitive advantage over us.'' 
 There is some evidence that such restrictions are discouraging business travel. In November, Euromonitor International, a London-based market research firm, found that the number of business arrivals in the United States fell 10 percent from 2004 to 2005, while the number of such arrivals in Europe grew 8 percent over the same period. 
 But last month, the Association of Corporate Travel Executives, in Alexandria, Va., conducted an informal survey of its non-American members who travel to the United States frequently on business. The survey found that while many complained of American travel policies, especially the difficulty in obtaining visas, they would continue to come to the United States. 
 ''Our members were emphatic that whatever inconvenience they've experienced lately, they're still coming to the U.S.,'' said Jack Riepe, an association spokesman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dimitry Smirnov in his office in Moscow. He called off a trip to a New York conference because of the uncertainties of getting a visa. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%) Travel and Vacations; Passports; Travel Restrictions 

PERSON: sara j welch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%) India; China; Latin America; Middle East; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



126 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Expansion in Services Sector Set Strong Pace in January

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Weakness in manufacturing, especially the auto industry, may be damping economic prospects, but the bigger services sector appears to be more than making up for it.
 The Institute for Supply Management, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., said yesterday that its index of business activity in the nonmanufacturing sector advanced to 59.0 in January, from 56.7 in December. Wall Street analysts had expected a reading of 57 for January. 
A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while one below that indicates contraction.
 The trade group's report on the manufacturing sector last week indicated that it contracted in January, in contrast to the services sector, which grew for the 46th consecutive month.
 ''Manufacturing is weakening as domestic auto manufacturers cut back and as residential construction declines,'' said Mark Vitner, a senior economist with Wachovia Securities, but he noted that manufacturing made up only about a quarter of the economy. The services sector, which represents about three-quarters of the economy, continued to grow.
 Scott Brown, chief economist with Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla., said the ''headline figure was stronger than the details,'' suggesting that the survey -- like other recent economic data -- was not sending clear signals about the near term.
 He said the economy was still expanding, and projected economic growth of 2.5 percent to 3 percent.
 The new-orders index weakened slightly to 55.4 in January, from 55.6 in December, while the backlog of orders strengthened to 49.0, from 48.0 the previous month.
 Prices increased at a slower rate, with the prices index registering 55.2 in January, down from 59.7 in December.
 Some of the respondents told the trade group that ''costs are starting to come down -- especially petroleum-related costs,'' the study said. Crude oil prices were up yesterday in reaction to frigid weather in major United States markets.
 The services employment index, meanwhile, moved down to 51.7 in January, from 53.2 in December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%) United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



127 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming: No Question Now

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Science Panel Says Global Warming Is 'Unequivocal' '' (front page, Feb. 3):
 The evidence is in, and it is incontrovertible. If we don't stop burning fossil fuels, we will destroy our habitat. Even if we manage to suppress all coal and gas emissions tomorrow, that will only slow the damage, not halt it.
If the earth is to survive, human beings must summon the collective will to stop doing what they have been doing and start doing something else. For starters, all municipal regions with mass transit in place need to phase out and ban the use of gasoline-powered automobiles. 
 Global warming deserves top priority from now on. The ball is now in everyone's court, as suggested by Richard B. Alley, one of the lead authors of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report.Carol HaskillSan Francisco, Feb. 3, 2007To the Editor:
 Re your Feb. 3 front-page article and ''At Humanity's Doorstep'' (editorial, Feb. 4):
 Speaking about United States policy in light of the latest climate change findings, Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman said, ''The U.S. economy is not something to be experimented with.'' But the climate of our only planet is?
 For a second, I thought he might have been kidding. Then I just wished he was. Talk about missing the biosphere for the trees.
 Apparently, we need to remind the Bush administration of something obvious: Neither the economy nor the people and living things that drive it exist independently of the planet's climate.Dan CarsenBirmingham, Ala., Feb. 4, 2007To the Editor: 
 As usual, the fashionable view eventually becomes tyrannical and will no longer permit debate. It looks now as if the momentum of the global-warming evangelists is unstoppable. 
 You state in your Feb. 3 front-page article that the United States accounts for 5 percent of the world's population and 25 percent of the world's emissions. Somewhere between consuming and emitting fossil fuels is that thing called United States economic growth, which continues to be a boon to the world -- for 2006, a sparkling 3.4 percent.
 Some say they don't want their children to have to cope with the alleged nightmare of climate change, but I am far sadder that my children will have to cope with the reduced richness of opportunity that will exist at every socioeconomic level in an economy crippled by restricted access to the energy that powers it.
 It will be a sad sight to watch the spectacular American private-sector engine and the optimistic innovativeness that has always been its hallmark diminished for want of fuel. Margaret McGirrGreenwich, Conn., Feb. 3, 2007To the Editor:
 You report that the new Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report ''expressly avoided recommending courses of action.'' A number of state legislatures (and cities), noting the total absence of a national policy on global warming, are developing state (and city) policies to comply with the Kyoto accord.
 With luck, some will repeal the sales tax and collect the equivalent revenue by taxing the sale of fossil electricity, natural gas and petrol.Wilfred CandlerAnnapolis, Md., Feb. 3, 2007 To the Editor:
 It is now surely high time to call the premier crisis facing human civilization by its right name: global ''heating'' or ''overheating.'' 
 ''Warming'' may have fit in earlier stages, but the word's friendly connotations do not convey the urgency with which humankind must now address the danger that in the short span of a mere two centuries it has created not only for itself but also for all life on planet Earth.Howard Charles YourowBronx, Feb. 3, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Joel Holland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POPULATION SIZE (58%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Weather

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (54%) Carol Haskill; Dan Carsen; Margaret Mcgirr; Wilfred Candler; Howard Charles Yourow; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



128 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Corn

 BODY:
The current price of corn is $3.23 a bushel, which is more than half again what it was a year ago, and beginning to bring to mind the record $5.545 a bushel set in July 1996. 
 There are many reasons for this price spurt. The ethanol boom has created a sharp new demand for corn. The Department of Agriculture revised its estimate of the 2006 corn harvest downward by some 200 million bushels because of weather and other factors. There is also a smaller corn reserve on hand than usual -- the smallest in a decade -- which parallels shortages around the world.
Add to this the growing weight of commodities funds investing in agricultural markets, and you have daydreams -- or nightmares -- of that $5 mark. 
 Yet all this has taken place against the backdrop of three record harvests in a row, a sure sign of how strong the ethanol appetite for corn production is turning out to be. It's tempting to assume that the effect of sharply higher prices is confined primarily to the agricultural sector. But where corn is concerned, we are all part of the agricultural sector. The historical cheapness of corn has driven it into nearly every aspect of our economy, in the form, most familiarly, of corn syrup. The low price of corn over the past half-century lies at the very foundation of America's historically (and unrealistically) low food prices. 
 Gratifying our two major appetites -- cheap food and cheap gas -- used to seem easy because both corn and oil were abundant. Cheap oil helped keep corn prices low because it cost farmers less to run their tractors and combines. 
 But we are entering a new dynamic now. While there has been talk recently about refining ethanol from sources other than corn, that could take a while. So at the moment what we are trying to do is gratify those appetites from the same resource: agricultural land. No matter how high prices go, what will need to change isn't the amount of corn acreage available or even the size of the enormous harvests we are already getting. What will need to change is the size of our appetites. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ETHANOL (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); GRAIN RESERVES (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (76%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%) Grain; Editorials; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Corn; Ethanol

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



129 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Veterinarians Spells Trouble on Farms

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: GORHAM, Me. 

 BODY:
Rainbow had the bad luck to try to have a baby on a Thursday.
 Thursday was her doctor's day off, and there was no one else for miles who could handle a complicated breech birth, not when the mother was a Holstein cow.
 ''Had the vet been here, we could have done a C-section and she could have lived through it fine,'' said Becki Benson, the owner, with her husband, Eddie, of Rainbow and 150 other dairy cows.
 Instead, ''I worked on her till I was just exhausted,'' Mr. Benson said. ''But I ended up having to take the cow to a butcher shop, where she got processed for hamburger.''
 These days, the Bensons' veterinarian is pretty much the only cow doctor in a 1,300-square-mile swath of Maine, and one of only about 30 large-animal veterinarians left in the entire state. 
 And across the country, veterinarians who care for the animals that provide the United States with food are in increasingly short supply.
 For one, there is generally more money to be made caring for cats and dogs. And with fewer students from farm backgrounds, fewer gravitate to rural jobs, especially if a spouse needs work, too. Large-animal care can be tough, even dangerous -- think of maneuvering in frigid weather around 1,000-pound cows in manure-filled pens. And more veterinarians are women, generally less inclined toward large animals.
 Since 1990, the number of veterinarians focusing on large animals has dropped to fewer than 4,500 from nearly 6,000, according to the American Veterinary Medical Association, which said those doctors now make up less than 10 percent of private-practice veterinarians. A recent study predicted that by 2016, 4 out of every 100 food-animal veterinary jobs would go unfilled.
 ''We look at it as a crisis,'' said Dr. Roger Mahr, the association's president, who cited serious consequences not only for the well-being of farmers and animals, but also potentially for food safety and the impact of non-native diseases like bird flu.
 ''Of all the emerging diseases in people in the last 25 years, 75 percent of those were transmitted from animals,'' Dr. Mahr said. ''Veterinarians are the ones to identify those diseases in animals first.''
 Pressed to address the problem, Congress enacted a law in 2004 offering to repay the student loans of veterinarians working in underserved areas, but it has received little financing.
 States are jumping in, with loan repayment or grant programs under way or proposed in Kansas, Maine, Missouri, North Dakota, Texas and elsewhere.
 In Iowa, students at the state's veterinary school formed Vsmart, which barnstorms county fairs and 4-H meetings to entice teenagers to become rural veterinarians.
 And in Oklahoma, State Representative Don Armes, Republican of Faxon, has introduced a bill offering tax breaks to large-animal veterinarians. Mr. Armes, a cattleman, knows the shortage firsthand, especially after one Friday last summer when a heifer struggled to deliver a large calf.
 ''I called six different veterinarians and could not get any of them,'' Mr. Armes said. ''We lost the calf. Almost lost the heifer.''
 The dearth of food-animal veterinarians (the shortage is not as critical for horses) reflects seismic shifts in farming, veterinary medicine, the economy and American culture. 
 Money is critical when veterinary students graduate $100,000 in debt. While some say salaries can be the same, no matter the animal size, many say small-animal practices are more profitable, allowing for dozens of clinic appointments daily instead of requiring trips of long distances between farms and ranches. And dog or cat owners more often pay for expensive surgery and treatment.
 ''For Fifi the family dog, you'll spend $1,500 or $2,000,'' Mr. Armes said. ''That old cow -- at some point economics kick in and you say if she's going to cost $1,500, I can buy two cows for that, so I should have shot her.''
 Tembra Gatlin, 27, who was reared on an Oklahoma ranch, started veterinary school ''large animal all the way,'' she said.
 She changed her mind after doing ''a C-section on a cow and it's 50 bucks,'' Ms. Gatlin said. ''Do a C-section on a Chihuahua and you get $300. It's the money. I hate to say that.''
 A study by the American Veterinary Medical Association found the median starting salary of large-animal veterinarians to be $60,500, $11,000 less than that of small-animal veterinarians. For veterinarians practicing 25 years, the gap was even wider: $98,500 for large-animal practitioners, $122, 500 for small.
 In Maine, the closing of about 250 dairy farms since 1993 makes it harder to attract new veterinarians and leaves remaining farm doctors overstretched.
 ''If you can't get a vet or it's so expensive because they have to travel such a distance, farmers end up just dealing with it themselves, and in a lot of cases that's not a good idea,'' said Dr. Donald Hoenig, Maine's state veterinarian.
 Timothy Leary, a farmer in Saco, Me., nearly lost a cow with a prolapsed uterus when no veterinarian was available. ''You either eat your mistakes or you bury them, if you literally can't get anyone,'' Mr. Leary said. Even the small-animal clinic where Mr. Leary's wife is a technician could not help him. 
 The Bensons, who raise valuable cows for breeding as well as milking, now shoulder many veterinary responsibilities, giving cows antibiotics for mastitis and intravenous calcium for milk fever.
 Their current veterinarian, Dr. Becky Myers, 52, worked for years round the clock.
 ''Half killed myself,'' Dr. Myers said. Back problems developed. A cow broke her hand.
 When she had a baby son, farmers with sick animals ''would be pushing the stroller around while I was pushing a cow's uterus back in. I used to call people in the middle of the night to come over and watch him when a farmer called. He gave me the nickname Mommy Moo.''
 Three times she managed to hire partners, but they either left Maine or large-animal care. In 2003, Dr. Myers said, she scaled back to four 10-hour days, ''which people here consider to be part time.'' 
 Before reducing her hours, Dr. Myers held a training session for farmers, providing a detailed manual with tips on giving cows anesthesia and pumping their stomachs. 
 Her schedule is still packed. One recent day was spent vaccinating calves for brucellosis, helping a sheep give birth, poking into a heifer's uterus to determine pregnancy, inserting magnets into a sick cow to attract metal fragments it might have swallowed and examining an arthritic goat whose owner had driven 70 miles because no doctor was nearer.
 But with so few counterparts -- one of the closest is 80-year-old Doc Cooper, an hour's drive north -- ''people get stuck and I feel really bad about it,'' she said. ''It was one of those decisions -- is my health and my family life more important or less important than somebody's cow?''
 Dr. Myers once visited the Bensons every 10 days; now it is once a month. They understand her need to cut back. Still, just in the last month, one cow, Darling, had a foot problem the Bensons could not diagnose. Another, Karissa, had mastitis, but the Bensons initially misdiagnosed the strain and gave the wrong antibiotic, delaying her recovery and milk production.
 And Alpha, a cow worth thousands of dollars, became weak and feverish after miscarrying twins, unfortunately on a weekend. When the Bensons tried moving her to a comfortable pen, she literally dropped dead.
 ''The fact that there's nothing you can do, you accept it as a business expense now,'' Mr. Benson said. ''You didn't used to. If you have livestock, sooner or later you're going to have deadstock.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Becky Myers, a farm veterinarian in Maine, no longer works round the clock but four 10-hour days. (Photo by Linda Coan O'Kresik for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERINARY SERVICES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (87%); STUDENT LOANS (87%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (77%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (72%); CATS (72%); DOGS (72%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); LEGISLATION (63%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%) Veterinary Medicine; States (US); Livestock; Women; Student Loans; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Rural Areas; Veterinary Medicine

PERSON: Pam Belluck

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (91%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



130 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Bush's 2008 Budget Request Doubles Spending on Replacing Military Equipment

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
More than a quarter of the money the Bush administration is requesting in the 2008 fiscal year for military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere would go toward repairing and replacing military equipment, according to budget figures released Monday by the Pentagon.
 The scale of the request illustrates the toll that years of combat in Iraq and Afghanistan are taking on the military's vehicles, aircraft, weapons and other equipment. But some budget experts say its size also raises questions about whether the military is using the argument that troops fighting in the field need equipment in top condition to increase purchases of equipment generally. 
The budget request, if approved by Congress, would allocate $37.6 billion for refurbishment, from a war budget of $141 billion in the fiscal year beginning on Oct. 1.
 To meet war costs between now and then, the administration is asking Congress for an immediate $93 billion, in a supplemental budget request that would add to what Congress approved months ago. And of that, $14 billion is for replacing equipment, bringing this year's total refurbishment budget, as well, to $37.6 billion.
 Last year only half that much was spent for replacing equipment used up or worn out in the fighting.
 The requests come at a time when the Senate is embroiled in a divisive dispute over whether to pass a resolution disapproving President Bush's war strategy. At the heart of the debate is the question of whether the resolution should promise not to cut spending for fielded forces.
 Steven M. Kosiak, a military budget expert at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, said the military appeared to taking advantage of the political support for paying for whatever the troops need to provide in the budget for other items.
 The Air Force, Mr. Kosiak noted, would receive $400 million for two F-35s, ostensibly to replace planes that were lost in the war. But the F-35 is an advanced fighter that is still on the drawing board and will not even be delivered for three more years, as replacement for other, older aircraft.
 ''We're not trying to get back to where we were,'' Mr. Kosiak said, ''we're trying to get back to where we would like to be.'' 
 The Pentagon comptroller, Tina W. Jonas, said that officials had rejected efforts by the military services to insert expensive new hardware into the budget for replacements and refurbishments; but she said that the F-35s qualified as replacements for three other, older fighters that the Air Force had lost in recent years.
 ''We used a pretty tight rule set to scrub these budgets,'' Ms. Jonas said, ''and we did return to the services some of their ideas. We've got a pretty careful scrub.'' She added that ''combat losses are fair game here, and so we included them.''
 But Defense Department officials concede that some weapons systems are also being modernized, to make them more useful in Iraq and Afghanistan. Budget documents say the Army's M1A1 Abrams tank would receive an unspecified ''system enhancement program'' to improve its performance against urban threats ''such as Baghdad.''
 As it has in the past, the Pentagon's long-term budget shows the costs of the war declining in the years ahead; Congress more than likely will be asked to increase expenditures in future years unless the fighting eases up.
 The total war budget of $163 billion, sought in the 2007 fiscal year, is projected to be $141 billion in 2008 and just $50 billion in 2009, far enough in the future that the estimate is little more than a place holder.
 Ms. Jonas said that the 21,500-troop increase Mr. Bush recently ordered for Iraq was not financed beyond the end of the 2007 fiscal year, when it is assumed for the sake of making a forecast that American troop levels will drop back to 140,000. Military officials say that the duration of the reinforcements will depend on security conditions, but that they could well last into next year.
 The administration's overall request for $481.4 billion for 2008 for Defense Department costs excluding military operations represents an increase of about 11 percent in spending. It reflects the beginnings of what could be a long, costly increase in the size of the military.
 Mr. Bush said last month that he wanted to increase the Army by about 7,000 soldiers a year, until reaching 547,000 troops by 2012, and by 5,000 marines annually until achieving a force size of 202,000 by 2011. The budget also provides $12.1 billion for increases in the Army and Marine Corps in 2008, officials said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tina W. Jonas discussed military spending at a briefing yesterday. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Military Spending''The military budget, including money for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which have been financed by supplemental appropriations.Graph tracks spending as a percentage of gross domestic product since 1977. (2006-2012 are estimates.)Supplemental appropriations after 2009 not yet estimated.(Source by Office of Management and Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; David S Cloud

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; United States; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



131 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: In Public View, Saudis Counter Iran in Region

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and HASSAN M. FATTAH; Michael Slackman reported from Jidda, and Hassan M. Fattah from Riyadh. Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo, and Helene Cooper from Washington.

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
With the prospect of three civil wars looming over the Middle East -- and Iran poised to gain from them all -- Saudi Arabia has abandoned its behind-the-scenes checkbook diplomacy and taken on a central, aggressive role in reshaping the region's conflicts. 
 On Tuesday, the kingdom is playing host in Mecca to the leaders of Hamas and Fatah, the two feuding Palestinian factions, in what both sides say could lead to a national unity government and reduced bloodshed. Last fall, senior Saudi officials met secretly with Israeli leaders about how to establish a Palestinian state.
In recent months, Saudi Arabia has also increased its public involvement in Iraq and its support of the Sunni-led government in Lebanon. The process is shaping up as a counteroffensive to efforts by Iran to establish itself as the regional superpower, according to diplomats, analysts and officials here and throughout the region. Some even say that the recent Saudi commitment to temper the price of oil is aimed at undermining Iran's economy, although officials here deny that. 
 ''We realized that we have to wake up,'' said a high-ranking Saudi diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the news media. ''Someone rang the bell, 'Be careful, something is moving.' ''
 The shift is occurring with encouragement from the Bush administration. Its goal is to see an American-backed alliance of Sunni Arab states including Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Lebanon and Egypt, along with a Fatah-led Palestine and Israel, opposing Iran, Syria and the radical groups they support.
 Yet Riyadh's goals may not always be in alignment with those of the White House, and could complicate American interests.
 The Saudi effort has been taken in collaboration with its traditional Persian Gulf allies and Egypt and Jordan, but it also represents another significant shift in a region undergoing a profound reshuffling. The changes are linked to the toppling of Saddam Hussein and the transfer of power from Sunni Muslims to Shiites in Iraq, analysts said. They also reach back many years to the gradual decline in influence of Cairo and the collapse of a pan-Arab agenda, analysts and diplomats said.
 ''The Saudis felt that the Iranian role in the region has become influential, especially in Iraq, Palestine and Lebanon, and that the Iranian role was undermining their role in the region,'' said Muhammad al-Sakr, head of the foreign affairs committee in the Kuwaiti Parliament. ''Usually the Saudis prefer to maneuver behind the scenes. Lately they've been noticeably active.''
 Saudi Arabia has taken public initiatives in the past, including one in 2002, when at an Arab League meeting it proposed a regional peace agreement with Israel in exchange for Israel's withdrawing to its 1967 boundaries. But it prefers to work quietly, and has not recently taken such a sustained public posture. 
 ''This is not leadership by choice; it is leadership by necessity,'' said Gamal Abdel Gawad, an expert at the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. ''There is a leadership vacuum in the region, and they have to step forward, or Iran will.''
 The United States, which is pushing the Saudis to take on this role, is alarmed at rising Iranian influence in Iraq and Lebanon, and with the Palestinian government of Hamas. 
 But the two countries, though sharing broad goals, have different views of the players in each conflict. For example, while the Bush administration sees the conflict in Iraq as one between allies and terrorists, the Saudis tend to see it as Sunnis versus Shiites -- and they favor the Sunnis, while the Americans back the Shiite-led government. And while Saudi Arabia wants to lure Hamas away from Iran's influence and back into the Arab fold, the United States views Hamas as a terrorist organization. 
 Nonetheless, both Washington and Riyadh believe that one important way to block Iran and calm the many fires in the region is to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- or at least appear to be trying to.
 On the surface, the effort by Saudi Arabia to establish itself as a counterpoint to Tehran is a contest between the main sects of Islam: Shiites, led by Iran, and Sunnis, led by Riyadh. Iran, which is Persian and not Arab, is the only state that is led by Shiite religious figures. Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Islam, and its king draws legitimacy as the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, in Mecca and Medina.
 The kingdom has been accused of stoking sectarian tensions as a way to drain popular support from Iran and its proxies, like Hezbollah -- a charge officials here deny but for which there is some evidence.
 In an interview on Jan. 27 that appeared in the daily Saudi newspaper Al Seyassa, King Abdullah was asked about widespread rumors that Shiites were trying to convert Sunnis. Iranian officials have dismissed such reports as a disinformation campaign aimed at inciting sectarian tensions.
 ''We are following up this matter and are aware of the Shiite proselytism and what point it has reached,'' the king was quoted as saying. ''This majority will not abandon its beliefs. At the end of the day it is the decision of the majority of Muslims that counts. Other creeds do not appear able to infiltrate the Sunni majority or undermine its historical authority.''
 Sectarian overtones aside, the battle is also about political power, national interests and preserving the status quo. Riyadh and its allies see a threat to their own power and security in the rise of Iran and the Shiite revival. They have expressed fear at Iran's insistence on pursuing a nuclear program, and anxiety over the rise in popularity of Hezbollah, the Shiite militia in Lebanon.
 The Saudi shift, many here say, dates from last summer, when Israel failed to crush Hezbollah during 34 days of bombing, shocking officials here and throughout the region at the strength of Hezbollah, seen as Iran's regional proxy army.
 In the interview with Al Seyassa, the king advised Iranian leaders ''to know their limits.'' 
 Saudi analysts said another key moment came after the midterm elections in the United States when the Republicans lost control of Congress. That was read here as a sign that the United States might soon withdraw its troops from Iraq, leaving an open field to the Iranians. 
 ''The outcome confirmed our worst fears,'' said Awadh al-Badi, director of the department of research and studies at the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies in Riyadh. ''It said that we could no longer be sure of the Americans.''
 In January, the kingdom initiated talks with the Iranians to mediate the growing stalemate in Lebanon, where Hezbollah has faced off with the government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora in sometimes violent confrontations. King Abdullah then held a surprise meeting with leaders of Hezbollah.
 The kingdom has played host to numerous meetings of Sunni and Shiite leaders as well as of so-called moderate Muslim leaders in recent months, possibly to emphasize its custodianship of Islam's holiest sites. And it has decided that it will be the host of the next meeting of the Arab League, in Riyadh. 
 Officials said they hoped at that meeting to smooth relations with Syria after its president, Bashar al-Assad, insulted the Saudi king and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in a speech last summer. Officials believe that Syria had moved closer to Iran because of its isolation, and that that shift has given Iran a bridge to the Arab world. 
 ''Politically speaking, Syria is not in the fold,'' said an Egyptian diplomat who spoke on the condition he not be identified. ''Maybe the goal is to bring Syria back to the Arab world.''
 If so, that, too, could antagonize Washington, which wants to isolate Syria further.
 Saudi Arabia's more pronounced public posture to counter Iran's rise also reflects realities that, while not new, have been underscored by the crises in the region. In particular, Arab officials and analysts say, the Arab world is not unified by a common social, political and economic agenda, and the traditional center of influence in Cairo has shifted to the oil-rich gulf. 
 In his recent newspaper interview, King Abdullah made that point, lamenting the failure of Arab countries to unite, while alluding to Iran's efforts to exploit the inability of Arabs to solve their own problems.
 ''We do not want any other party to manipulate our causes, profiteer from them, and draw strength from them,'' he said. ''We do not want any other country to exploit our causes to bolster its position in its global conflicts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); AL FATAH (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RELIGION (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States International Relations; Palestinians; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%) Hamas; Fatah

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Michael Slackman; Hassan M Fattah

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (70%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Saudi Arabia; Iraq; Iran; Israel; Lebanon; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



132 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Diplomat Kidnapped in Baghdad by Iraqis With Official ID

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ; Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Tuesday, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
An Iranian diplomat was abducted Sunday evening when his convoy was stopped by men with official Defense Ministry identification in the Karrada neighborhood here, senior Iraqi and American officials said Monday.
 Iraqi security forces captured several suspects after pursuing their vehicles through the streets of Baghdad, two of the Iraqi officials said.
The vehicle with the diplomat was not caught, though. 
 Bombings killed at least 29 people and wounded 90 more in Baghdad as preparations for the latest attempt to secure the city were under way. Those preparations are part of the American-led troop buildup that some American and Iraqi officials view as a last-ditch effort to keep violence in the capital from degenerating into an all-out sectarian war between Shiite and Sunni Arabs.
 The abduction of the Iranian took place in a largely Shiite section of the city not far from where a truck bomb killed at least 135 people on Saturday and where residents have complained that the slow pace of the increase in American troops has left them open to attacks.
 The men captured in the chase by Iraqi forces on Sunday were Iraqis with Defense Ministry identification, Iraqi and American officials said, raising serious questions about whether government forces themselves were involved in the abduction.
 A senior Iraqi official said that the credentials initially appeared to be genuine but that investigators later received conflicting information about whether the men had been dismissed from the ministry but somehow kept their identification.
 When asked about indications that an Iranian diplomat had been abducted in Baghdad, Mohammad alHosseini, an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman in Tehran, said: ''We need to investigate, because we have been receiving a lot of news like that these days. I cannot confirm it yet.''
 If the kidnappers' credentials turn out to be genuine, there will be enormous pressure on the Iraqi government to recover the diplomat and capture all of those involved. The Iraqi government has been critical of recent raids by American forces in which Iranians working with diplomatic offices in Iraq have been detained.
 The Americans have accused some of those Iranians of supporting illicit armed groups in Iraq, but the raids have been embarrassing to the Iraqi government, which has been encouraging foreign diplomatic missions -- in particular Iran's -- to increase their presence here. Iraqi officials have distanced themselves from the American raids, while Iran has simply termed those operations kidnappings.
 In fact, the American position on those raids was weakened after American forces in Baghdad first announced that they would formally present evidence on illicit Iranian activity in Iraq, then pulled back amid indications that officials in Washington were not persuaded that the case was strong enough.
 Tensions between the United States and Iran have recently soared over the issues of Iran's nuclear program and statements by its ambassador to Iraq that his country planned to increase its economic and military ties with Iraq substantially.
 The Iranian Embassy has not publicly acknowledged the kidnapping. But in an indication of how high tensions between Iran and the United States have risen over the American raids, the embassy privately voiced suspicions that the kidnapping of its diplomat might have been done at the behest of American forces in Baghdad, an Iraqi official said.
 American Embassy and military spokesmen did not immediately respond to requests for comment that were made after midnight on Monday in Baghdad.
 Beyond the unsubstantiated suspicions about the involvement of the United States in the kidnapping, there were no clear indications of whether the Iranian diplomat might have been taken by insurgents seeking to cast doubt on the stability of Iraq's government, or simply for ransom. 
 But in videos, Sunni insurgents claimed responsibility for a series of attacks on Arab embassies in Baghdad in 2005, when the top diplomats from Egypt and Algeria were kidnapped and killed.
 Also on Monday, the United States military reported that two American soldiers had been killed the day before. 
 One soldier from Task Force Lightning was shot by insurgents during combat in Diyala Province. Another soldier, assigned to the 13th Sustainment Command (Expeditionary), was killed by a roadside bomb during a patrol north of Baghdad.
 A British soldier was killed Monday by a roadside bomb in Basra, the 100th British military combat death in Iraq, according to British news reports. 
 Another 31 members of the British military have died in Iraq from accidents or other causes.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the abduction of an Iranian diplomat in Baghdad rendered incorrectly the name of a spokesman for Iran's Foreign Ministry in Tehran who was quoted as saying he could not immediately confirm the abduction. He is Mohammad Ali Hosseini, not Mohammad alHosseini.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Sinaa, a neighborhood in Baghdad, a car bomb killed nine people yesterday, a day in which bombings killed at least 29 and wounded 90. (Photo by Johan Spanner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%) Kidnapping; Foreign Service; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: James Glanz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (73%) Iraq; Iran; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



133 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: The New Immigrant Dream: Arepas as Common as Bagels

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Adam B. Ellick contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Manuel A. Miranda was 8 when his family immigrated to New York from Bogota. His parents, who had been lawyers, turned to selling home-cooked food from the trunk of their car. Manuel pitched in after school, grinding corn by hand for traditional Colombian flatbreads called arepas.
 Today Mr. Miranda, 32, runs a family business with 16 employees, producing 10 million arepas a year in the Maspeth section of Queens. But the burst of Colombian immigration to the city has slowed; arepas customers are spreading through the suburbs, and competition for them is fierce. Now, he says, his eye is on a vast, untapped market: the rest of the country.
 In the long run, like bagels, ''you're going to have arepas in every store,'' predicted Mr. Miranda, whose innovations include a ''toaster-friendly'' version (square instead of round), and an experimental Web site that offers online sales nationwide. ''But I don't have the connections. I don't know the people who can advise how to take us to the next level.'' 
 As the flow of immigrants to suburban and small-town America outpaces the growth of bustling ethnic centers in New York, many foreign-born entrepreneurs like the Mirandas are facing an unfamiliar crossroads. In the city, rising rents and density hamper growth, while swelling ethnic enclaves in the suburbs generate competitors. Yet in other places, opportunity beckons as never before, as immigrants expand the tastes of mainstream America. 
 Whether these businesses exploit the new chances to break out or succumb to the new perils, the city's economy will feel the effects.
 ''Immigrants have been the entrepreneurial spark plugs of cities from New York to Los Angeles,'' said Jonathan Bowles, the director of the Center for an Urban Future, a private, nonprofit research organization that has studied the dynamics of immigrant businesses that turned decaying neighborhoods into vibrant commercial hubs in recent decades. ''These are precious and important economic generators for New York City, and there's a risk that we might lose them over the next decade.'' 
 A report to be issued by the center today highlights both the potential and the challenge for cities full of immigrant entrepreneurs, who often face language barriers, difficulties getting credit, and problems connecting with mainstream agencies that help businesses grow. The report identifies a generation of immigrant-founded enterprises poised to break into the big time -- or already there, like the Lams Group, one of the city's most aggressive hotel developers, or Delgado Travel, which reaps roughly $1 billion in annual revenues.
 In Los Angeles, at least 22 of the 100 fastest-growing companies in 2005 were created by first-generation immigrants. In Houston, a telecommunications company started by a Pakistani man topped the 2006 list of the city's most successful small businesses.
 But even in those cities and New York, where immigrant-friendly mayors have promoted programs to help small business, the report contends that immigrant entrepreneurs have been overlooked in long-term strategies for economic development.
 Some are doing just fine anyway. Lowell Hawthorne, the Jamaican-born chief executive of Golden Krust Caribbean Bakery, has parlayed a single bakery, opened in the Bronx in 1989, into more than 100 franchise restaurants nationwide. The latest batch opened in Atlanta, where Jamaican-style specialties, supplied from a Bronx plant with 130 employees, draw on a mix of West Indian immigration and crossover appeal. 
 Other companies, like Rajbhog Foods, which started as a mom-and-pop Indian sweets shop in Jackson Heights, Queens, seem to be on the edge of a similar breakthrough, even as they struggle with rising costs and shifting immigration patterns.
 ''Two steps forward and then back one step,'' said Sachin Mody, the chief executive and son of the founders. ''That is the hardest part, to keep hurdling and keep evolving.''
 Mr. Mody said the company had about 70 employees and three plants and sold its vegetarian products to stores in 41 states and Canada. Its catering operation handles Indian weddings and conventions for as many as 10,000. But six years ago, in recognition of a changing market, it began opening franchise stores in places like Jersey City and Hicksville, on Long Island, where Indians have settled in large numbers. 
 In Jackson Heights, where South Asians from around the region have long come to shop for ethnic food and the latest in saris, bangles and Bollywood DVDs, business in Rajbhog's gleaming flagship store is down 30 to 40 percent, said the owner, Nirval Shah, an Indian-born nephew of the founders. 
 ''We try to reach out to every corner where there is an Indian community, so they don't have to drive all the way to one location to get what they need,'' he explained, allowing that such suburban shops were drawing business away from Little India in Queens, a view echoed by other merchants.
 Then he pointed to the company's newest line: frozen Indian entrees, less spiced for American palates. 
 In some ways, New York may have a head start on the growing pains of immigrant businesses. The nation's recent surge of newcomers started earlier in the state and peaked by the mid-1990s, when immigration was still growing rapidly elsewhere. About 90,000 new immigrants still arrive each year in New York State, the vast majority still settling in the city, but that is down from about 168,000 in 1990.
 Now, some children of the early influx are trying to build on their parents' success -- success that itself has increased the cost of doing business, by driving up rents and creating congestion. 
 One example is Jay Joshua, a Manhattan company that designs souvenirs and then has them manufactured in Asia and imported. Jay Chung, who arrived from South Korea in 1981 as a graduate student in design, started printing his computer-graphic designs for New York logos and peddling them to local T-shirt shops. His company is now one of the city's leading suppliers of tourist items, from New York-loving coffee mugs to taxicab Christmas ornaments. 
 Mr. Chung's son Joshua, 26, who was 3 when he immigrated, joined the company after studying business management in college, and recently helped land orders for a new line of Chicago souvenirs. But frustration mixes with pride when the Chungs, both American citizens now, discuss the company's growth.
 ''It's really hard to conduct a business over here as a wholesaler,'' Mr. Chung said in the company's West 27th Street showroom, chockablock with samples. ''We get a ticket every 20 minutes, no matter what. We need more convenient places with less rent, less traffic.'' 
 Thirty years ago their wholesale district was desolate. Now hundreds of Korean-American importers are there, said Jay Chung, who is a leader of the local Korean-American business association. They face a blizzard of parking tickets and high commercial rents -- nearly $20,000 a month for 1,400 square feet, he said. Many merchants have had to subdivide and sublet their space, he added, shrinking just when they need to grow. 
 The association's efforts to find an alternate wholesale site have a checkered history that underscores the importance of partnerships with the city -- and the pitfalls. Responding to the city's request for redevelopment proposals for the College Point section of Queens, more than 50 Korean merchants pooled $1 million to draw up the winning proposal, Mr. Chung said. At a news conference in 2004, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said it would create hundreds of new jobs. But the city backed out eight months later, after protests by older,white Queens residents and their representatives.
 ''They said they didn't want the area to become like Flushing, like Chinatown,'' Mr. Chung recalled. ''It was a disaster for us -- not only financially, but our image.''
 Apologetic city development officials offered five other locations, he said in an account that the city confirmed, and the group is negotiating for a private project in Jamaica, Queens, that could yield a 13-story center in about four years. Meanwhile, however, some merchants have already moved to New Jersey. 
 At a time when cities woo biotechnology firms and sports arenas to jump-start local economies, the economic potential of immigrant entrepreneurs has remained largely under the radar, says the Center for an Urban Future. Though there are no precise figures to measure their economic contributions, the report said, these businesses create jobs in good times and bad. They offset the cyclical slumps of more high-profile sectors like finance in New York or energy in Houston. And they have created ethnic markets that draw shoppers into the city, balancing the loss of retail trade to the suburbs. 
 The report credits the Bloomberg administration for small-business initiatives that have helped some firms, but calls on public, private and nonprofit agencies to do more to connect immigrant entrepreneurs to the expertise available. 
 Kara Alaimo, a spokeswoman for the city's Small Business Services Department, said it now deployed a staff speaking six foreign languages who aided almost 13,000 businesses in the five boroughs last year. ''We are incredibly proud of our achievements in this arena and look forward to doing even more to provide resources to this vital community,'' she said.
 Immigrant entrepreneurs seem ambivalent about getting more attention from the city. Some are leery of red tape, though they would welcome, say, a municipal parking garage. Others cite concrete help they have received from city agencies. 
 When Mr. Miranda's arepas company, Delicias Andinas, was struggling with high trash bills two years ago, he said, a city agent in an industry retention program referred him to a recycler. Now much of the company's garbage -- mostly corn leftovers -- is sold to hog farms. 
 ''They helped us out to a win-win situation,'' said Mr. Miranda, now an American citizen who calls himself ''a dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker.'' 
 ''For us, it was a big deal. Right now, I don't need money. I need knowledge.''
 Map of New York City highlighting the locations of the aforementioned neighborhoods. (pg. B6) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jay Chung and his son Joshua, from South Korea, own a company in Manhattan that is one of the city's leading supplier of tourist items. At left, Manuel A. Miranda and his mother, Mercedes, at their arepas plant in Queens. He wants to sell the corn flatbreads nationwide. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Immigrant Neighborhoods, Booming Business''From 1994 to 2004, neighborhoods with predominantly foreign-born populations saw substantial increases in the number of businesses and jobs, outpacing growth in the rest of the city, according to a study released today.NEIGHBORHOOD: FlushingBUSINESSESIN 2004: 3,654INCREASE FROM 1994: 54.6%EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 30,155INCREASE FROM 1994: 12.1%NEIGHBORHOOD: Sunset ParkBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,606INCREASE FROM 1994: 47.3EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 17,286INCREASE FROM 1994: 23.2NEIGHBORHOOD: Sheepshead Bay-Brighton BeachBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,900INCREASE FROM 1994: 33.7EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 11,580INCREASE FROM 1994: 13.3NEIGHBORHOOD: ElmhurstBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,301INCREASE FROM 1994: 25.1EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 12,768INCREASE FROM 1994: 10.2NEIGHBORHOOD: Washington HeightsBUSINESSESIN 2004: 2,129INCREASE FROM 1994: 17.8EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 25,334INCREASE FROM 1994: 33.6 NEIGHBORHOOD: Jackson HeightsBUSINESSESIN 2004: 1,468INCREASE FROM 1994: 14.3EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 6,700INCREASE FROM 1994: 27.9NEIGHBORHOOD: New York CityBUSINESSESIN 2004: 210,783INCREASE FROM 1994: 9.6EMPLOYMENTIN 2004: 3.6 millionINCREASE FROM 1994: 6.9(Source by Center for an Urban Future)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SUBURBS (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); REFUGEES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%) Small Business; Immigration and Refugees; Entrepreneurship; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: Center for an Urban Future

PERSON: Nina Bernstein; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); COLOMBIA (94%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



134 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Jail Record Near for Videographer Who Resisted Grand Jury

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
A freelance videographer who refused to cooperate with a grand jury investigation will become the longest incarcerated journalist in modern American history on Tuesday. The freelancer, Josh Wolf, will pass Vanessa Leggett, an investigator and a journalist who served 168 days in 2001 and 2002 for refusing to surrender information in a murder case.
 Mr. Wolf, 24, has been in prison since August, with a brief break in September related to his appeal, after refusing to cooperate with a grand jury investigation of an anticapitalist protest in 2005 in which a police officer here was injured and a squad car was slightly damaged by a small explosive device. 
Prosecutors have demanded that Mr. Wolf give them his raw video, some of which he has posted on his Web site, www.joshwolf.net, as well as testify about the protesters seen on the tape for an investigation into possible charges, including arson. 
 ''Wolf videotaped a public demonstration where there may have been an attempt to set a police car ablaze and where a San Francisco police officer's skull was fractured when he was hit from behind by a demonstrator,'' said Luke Macaulay, a spokesman for the United States attorney for the Northern District of California.
 Mr. Macaulay cited six federal decisions in the government's favor, including one last week that denied a request for a new hearing. 
 ''This office has issued a lawful subpoena for legitimate investigative purposes,'' he said.
 Mr. Wolf says he is protecting his sources. He remains behind bars even as the United States attorney who had him held, Kevin V. Ryan, has said he is stepping down and the San Francisco district attorney has dismissed the lone remaining criminal case involving the protest. 
 Mr. Wolf could stay jailed until the term of the grand jury ends in July. 
 The jailing has prompted outcries by advocates for freedom of the press who say it seems out of proportion to the scale of the investigation.
 ''This is one more example of the increasing attacks on confidentiality of sources in the United States, one more blow to investigative journalism and, eventually, to the right for American people to be informed,'' Lucie Morillon, a spokeswoman for Reporters Without Borders in Washington, wrote in an e-mail message. ''This is a bad signal sent to the rest of the world.''
 The case has also raised the question of whether Mr. Wolf is truly a reporter or simply a citizen who shot videotape. His lawyer, Martin Garbus, said Mr. Wolf established his journalistic status in part by selling videotape of the protest to local television stations. 
 The protest was timed to coincide with a Group of 8 meeting of world economic leaders in Scotland. 
 Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court here disagreed, referring to Mr. Wolf as an ''alleged journalist'' in court papers. Judge Alsup has also repeatedly cited Branzburg v. Hayes, a Supreme Court decision in 1972 that found that the First Amendment does not exempt any newsmen from testifying to a grand jury. 
 Supporters of Mr. Wolf intend to rally on the steps of San Francisco City Hall on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Garbus said he would be return to court next month with a psychiatrist's affidavits, as well as statements from former co-workers and teachers that Mr. Wolf is unlikely to be persuaded to talk. 
 ''The more acclimated he gets,'' Mr. Garbus said of the detention, ''the more determined he gets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MURDER (78%); ARSON (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); RIOTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); HISTORY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); TRENDS (68%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; News Sources, Confidential Status of; Computers and the Internet; Demonstrations and Riots; Attacks on Police; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Freedom of the Press; Records and Achievements; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Josh Wolf; Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); SCOTLAND (69%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



135 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Deals Galore, but Caution Rules Investors

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street closed mixed yesterday as lingering concerns about the economy offset better-than-expected sales from Wal-Mart Stores and a flurry of acquisition activity.
 Shares of Wal-Mart rose after the company said that it expected January sales at stores open for more than a year to rise 2.2 percent. Tempering the gain was its projection that sales performance was on track to deliver the lowest growth rate in more than 25 years.
Shares of Wal-Mart rose 44 cents, to $48.52, after its announcement, which topped its previous forecast for a 1 percent to 2 percent gain. The company said that colder temperatures in January drove sales of seasonal items. 
 Meanwhile, Wall Street absorbed a spate of acquisition and private equity deals.
 Triad Hospitals and Herbalife received offers from private equity funds, while State Street agreed to buy Investors Financial Services.
 Triad Hospitals agreed to go private in a $4.7 billion deal from affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors and the Goldman Sachs affiliate GS Capital Partners. Triad shares surged $6.38, or 14.7 percent, to $49.65.
 The nutritional supplement maker Herbalife said it received an acquisition proposal from a private investment fund, Whitney V, that values the company at about $2.7 billion. The company said it was reviewing the offer, and its shares spiked 21 percent, or $7.02, to $40.12.
 The billionaire financier Carl C. Icahn made a $2.43 billion offer for the auto parts supplier Lear, and its shares jumped 11.5 percent, or $3.97, to $38.64.
 State Street shares fell $4.67, to $67.08 after the institutional investment manager said that it would buy Investors Financial Services for about $4.5 billion in stock. The deal sent shares of Investors Financial up 27.4 percent, or $12.85, or to $59.80.
 Wall Street is in a holding pattern now that the Federal Reserve has decided to hold rates steady for the time being and the quarterly earnings season is largely over. 
 ''We're just going to have a topsy-turvy market until investors figure out which direction to take,'' said Todd Leone, managing director of equity trading for Cowen & Company. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 8.25 points, to 12,661.74. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.40 points, to 1,446.99, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 5.28 points, to 2,470.60. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was down 2.73 points, at 806.69. 
 Also squeezing stocks was a rebound in oil prices as a cold snap hit the Northeast. After hitting nearly $60 a gallon, the price of a barrel of light crude ended down 28 cents, at $58.74, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Linda A. Dussel, market strategist for Federated Investors in Pittsburgh, believes investors are wondering how fast the economy is growing. She expects the answer when economists get a better handle on the state of the housing market, which typically begins to heat up toward spring.
 Apple, the computer company, and Apple Corps, the guardian of the Beatles' music, resolved their long dispute about who has the right to the Apple trademark, which could be the first step in permitting downloads of the band's music. Shares of Apple fell 81 cents, to $83.94.
 The price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 5/32, to 9820/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.80 percent, from 4.82 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills.(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price3-Mo. Bills: 98.7336-Mo. Bills: 97.494High Rate3-Mo. Bills: 5.0106-Mo. Bills: 4.955Investment Rate3-Mo. Bills: 5.1456-Mo. Bills: 5.153Low Rate3-Mo. Bills: 4.9906-Mo. Bills: 4.940Median Rate3-Mo. Bills: 5.0006-Mo. Bills: 4.950Total applied for3-Mo. Bills: $62,097,2676-Mo. Bills: $51,469,588Accepted3-Mo. Bills: $26,746,8026-Mo. Bills: $21,298,911Noncompetitive3-Mo. Bills: $2,087,4676-Mo. Bills: $1,964,644Both issues are dated February 08, 2007. The threemonth bills mature on May 10, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on August 09, 2007.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Oct. to Jan. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (85%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (66%); COMMODITIES TRADING (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (52%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); COWEN GROUP INC (63%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); STATE STREET FINANCIAL SERVICES (56%); GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); COWN (NASDAQ) (63%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); FII (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



136 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: India Is Reveling in Being the Buyer

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Many in this nation, which gained independence from Britain in 1947, are discovering that it is far more appealing to belong to a nation doing the takeovers rather than being taken over.
 Much of India erupted with jubilation last week when the Tata Group, an Indian conglomerate, won the bidding for the Corus Group, the British-Dutch steel company, with a $11.3 billion offer, the largest acquisition ever by an Indian company.
With the value of overseas bids by Indian companies soaring to $21 billion last year from less than $1 billion in 2000, according to the market researcher Dealogic, an elite slice of this country is growing intoxicated by the fantasy that it may one day own the world. 
 The takeover of Western companies by Indians is seen by many here as a reversal of fortune: a once-proud civilization that became a colony is now buying out the once-hallowed corporations of the West.
 Last month, an Indian newspaper published a front-page drawing of what Times Square could look like if Indian companies went on a global acquisition spree. Stripped from the billboards were American brands. In their place were Indian companies that few Americans have heard of: Videocon, Reliance Industries and Tata.
 ''We were eclipsed for a while, overtaken by foreigners and foreign rule for a few centuries, and this is a comeuppance that is deserved -- the need for some retribution,'' said Rahul Kansal, brand director of The Times of India, an English-language daily newspaper that has stoked the takeover euphoria, and whose sibling, The Economic Times, printed the Times Square spread.
 Some investors, however, do not seem to share that view. Since talk of the deal began in October, investors have shaved 13 percent from Tata Steel's market capitalization.
 And many question whether Indian companies can manage the difficult and nuanced process of integrating a foreign company into an Indian corporation. The sense of pride began building early last year when an Indian-born steel magnate, Lakshmi N. Mittal, who lives in London, made a hostile bid for Arcelor, the steel maker based in Luxembourg; Mr. Mittal eventually acquired it for $33.5 billion. Though his company was based in the Netherlands, is managed from London and had no mills in India, the Indian government, all the way up to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, put its support behind the bid. The media lionized Mr. Mittal, much as they now lionize Ratan Tata, the head of Tata.
 Since then, as numerous Indian acquisition deals have been announced, a sense of new nationalism has emerged. The Times of India epitomized this feeling with its new marketing campaign, called India Poised, which unabashedly uses patriotism to sell newspapers. On Jan. 26, Republic Day in India, The Times called on Indians to ''make public displays of affection for India.'' 
 A recent survey by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs concluded that Indians see their country as second only to the United States in its influence in the world. They also expect the global sway of the United States to wane over the next 10 years as the power of India rises.
 Indian companies have some good reasons for their foreign acquisitions. For example, Ranbaxy -- which has bought numerous foreign operations, like a European generic drugs business from GlaxoSmithKline -- gained a sales force right away and did not have to build one from scratch. For an automaker like Tata Motors, acquiring Daewoo Commercial Vehicle of Korea in 2004 brought in expertise in heavy trucks to an Indian company still producing 1970s style vehicles.
 But a small number of large acquisitions have stirred some worries. A United States consulting firm recently warned a small group of the Indian industrialists against repeating the mistakes of Japanese companies that overreached with major acquisitions in the 1980s. The consultant -- who requested anonymity for fear of harming the firm's business relationships -- told those leaders how Japanese companies ''spiraled into a vicious cycle of losses'' after a buying spree left them with corporate and human assets scattered across a world they hardly understood. 
 Even so, to many Indians, the takeovers may help to move beyond anxieties created during India's colonial era and four decades of socialism.
 ''There's a deep inferiority complex,'' said Ramachandra Guha, a prominent historian and social critic. ''Sometimes it manifests itself in excessive deference. At the same time, we exalt in cases of success over the white man.''
 When Jamsetji Tata, the grandfather of Ratan, sought to stay in a British-run hotel in Mumbai in colonial days when the city was known as Bombay, he was refused because he was an Indian. He resolved to start his own Taj Mahal Hotel, which opened in 1903 with German elevators and English butlers. And now, as a fast-growing hotel chain, the Taj has taken control of Western properties like the Pierre in New York, the W in Sydney and the St. James Court in London.
 Back then, some restrictions from the socialist government still lingered, including currency rules so tight that Indian managers could not take clients to lunch in New York, much less acquire companies.
 Ratan Tata washed dishes as a college student at Cornell University because what was perhaps India's richest family could not legally wire him money for food.
 Those days instilled in many Indians thrift, caution, fear of the future and insecurity about their standing in the world. And now, in the takeover boom, are portents that as economic fundamentals change, culture changes with them.
 ''A pulsating, dynamic new India is emerging,'' Amitabh Bachchan, a Bollywood actor, says in a television ad for The Times of India. ''An India whose faith in success is far greater than its fear of failure. An India that no longer boycotts foreign-made goods but buys out the companies that make them instead.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A steel factory in Ijmuiden, the Netherlands, part of the Corus Group being acquired by Tata of India. (Photo by United Photos/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); DIVESTITURES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); TRENDS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Corporations; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: TATA GROUP (92%); RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); TATA STEEL EUROPE (58%); TATA STEEL LTD (53%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (52%)

TICKER: RIGD (LSE) (90%); RELIANCE (NSE) (90%); TTST (LSE) (53%); TATASTEEL (NSE) (53%); MTS (MCE) (52%); MT (PAR) (52%); MT (NYSE) (52%); MT (AMS) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (53%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (52%)

PERSON: RATAN TATA (79%); LAKSHMI N MITTAL (78%); MANMOHAN SINGH (57%) Anand Giridharadas

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) India; India

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



137 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Bush Releases Budget as Plan To Erase Deficit

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Carl Hulse, Eric Lipton and Diana Jean Schemo contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush unveiled a $2.9 trillion budget on Monday that he said would wipe out the deficit in five years without raising taxes, setting up a clash with the Democratic-run Congress and charting a course for Republicans to continue his policies long after he leaves office.
 The budget, in four volumes and 2,500 pages of text, charts and tables, made few concessions to the political realities facing Mr. Bush.
For a president less than two years from the end of his second term, and with his poll numbers low, it was a defiant statement of the principles he has championed for years: the power of tax cuts to drive the economy, the need to spend what it takes to succeed in Iraq and in the broader struggle against terrorism and the necessity of reining in spending on much of the rest of what government does.
 Speaking to reporters after meeting with the cabinet, the president said, ''We have proven, and I strongly believe Congress needs to listen to, a budget which has no tax increase, and a budget, because of fiscal discipline, that can be balanced in five years.'' 
 He said the plan ''is realistic; it's achievable.''
 To the Democrats who now run Congress, it was little more than a prop in a bit of theater that the White House used to try to define the fiscal debate on its terms. 
 While all presidential budgets are political documents as much as economic plans, this one, Democrats said, would get little hearing on Capitol Hill. They said the budget was built on flawed assumptions and fiscal trickery, including the failure to include estimates for the long-term cost of the war.
 ''What he's saying is, basically you can have it all -- you can spend the money, especially on defense and the war, and you can cut every tax, and it all works,'' Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said in an interview. ''But in the real world, it doesn't work out.''
 The budget calls for $145.2 billion for the war in the year starting Oct. 1, mostly for Iraq and Afghanistan, on top of a new request for an additional $99.6 billion to pay for the war for the balance of the current fiscal year. It includes money to increase the size of the Army and the Marine Corps and hire more Border Patrol agents, but imposes steep cuts in the growth of Medicare and Medicaid. It would trim or eliminate other domestic programs, like one providing loans for vocational education.
 Assuming that all of Mr. Bush's proposals were agreed to by Congress, that his economic assumptions panned out and that the costs of the war dropped sharply and then went away in coming years, the budget would bring the deficit down from a projected level of $244 billion this year to $239 billion next year. In 2012, three years after he leaves the White House, there would be a surplus of $61 billion. 
 The document provided Mr. Bush's fellow Republicans with talking points to use in asserting that tax cuts have helped keep the economy strong, as they confront calls from some Democrats to roll back some of the tax cuts Mr. Bush signed into law in his first term. John Edwards, the Democratic candidate for president, said Monday that he would support raising taxes on upper-income people to help pay for his proposal to provide health coverage to the uninsured.
 In an internal party strategy memorandum circulated on Capitol Hill, a senior Republican aide wrote that the budget ''gives us a huge (and rare, given our new status) opportunity to get a jump on the Democrats and stay on the offensive for weeks to come.'' 
 The memorandum continued, ''Our message will be one that repeatedly challenges the Democrats to rein in federal spending and balance the budget without raising taxes on the American people.''
 But it was also to some degree a longer-term legacy-building document for Mr. Bush, an effort to bake into the fiscal cake many of the domestic policies that have defined his presidency and conservative economic thought in the last several decades. And while the two parties have different views of how much to credit the Bush tax cuts for the economy's current condition, the government's books, at least in the short run, are benefiting from a jump in tax revenues that has already brought the deficit down substantially in the past several years.
 The White House promises to achieve its balanced-budget goal, in part, by limiting the growth of all federal programs, outside of the military and domestic security, to 1 percent. In addition to assuming spending restraint, the budget assumes the economy and federal tax revenues will continue to grow -- assumptions that Rob Portman, Mr. Bush's budget director, described as ''a cautious approach'' rather than ''a rosy scenario.''
 The 2008 proposal is the first Bush administration budget to include emergency spending requests for Iraq and Afghanistan, a move Mr. Portman called ''our good-faith effort to be as transparent as possible.'' But that transparency came only after repeated complaints from lawmakers of both parties, who had grown tired of considering budgets that left out the bulk of war spending.
 Just hours after the budget message was released, the Senate was locked in a procedural showdown over the Iraq resolution opposing Mr. Bush's troop buildup. Disagreements on the war, within parties and between them, are so profound that Senator Conrad, the Budget Committee chairman, predicted that a fight over Iraq spending might prevent his committee from adopting any budget at all. 
 ''Can you imagine getting every Democrat to agree on spending for the war?'' Mr. Conrad asked.
 As he has in years past, Mr. Bush uses the budget to challenge Democrats to rein in the growth of the government's biggest entitlement programs: Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. The 2008 proposal includes plans to divert payroll taxes from Social Security into private accounts, a plan that went nowhere in the past, even when Republicans ran Capitol Hill.
 The blueprint also calls for the government to reduce its projected spending on Medicare and Medicaid by a total of $280 billion over the life of the 10-year budget. While Democrats criticized Mr. Bush for what Speaker Nancy Pelosi called ''wrong priorities,'' they conceded privately that Mr. Bush was correct in warning that the unchecked growth of entitlement programs would eventually break the federal bank.
 As in years past, domestic security would see a big increase under Mr. Bush's budget, with spending rising by 8.4 percent to $61.1 billion. The plan includes enough new money for the Border Patrol to hire 3,000 new agents, bringing the total force to 17,819, compared with just over 9,000 in 2001. By the end of 2008, a total of about 370 miles of fence would be laid out on the border, compared with about 75 miles today. 
 In yet another sign of the times for Mr. Bush, the plan drew criticism from a leading Republican, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who is her party's senior member on the domestic security committee. Ms. Collins said the budget ''highlights the chronic and troubling underfunding'' of grant programs for first responders.
 Mr. Bush has long been criticized by some conservatives as being too willing to tolerate a steady expansion in the size of the federal government; some commentators refer to him, usually not admiringly, as a big-government conservative.
 This budget calls for a 4.2 percent increase next year in overall government spending, down from a 4.8 percent increase between last year and this year.
 The budget includes isolated increases for a few popular federal programs, including two in the area of education, which Mr. Bush considers a signature domestic issue. The White House called for gradually raising over five years the maximum Pell Grant for aid to needy college students to $5,400 a year from $4,050. Mr. Bush also proposed a $1.2 billion increase in aid to high schools that educate predominantly low-income youngsters.
 But the president also proved willing to propose reining in the popular health program called Schip that provides insurance to low-income children whose parents earn too much to qualify for Medicaid. 
 The budget calls for only slim spending increases in the Schip program, so slim that Democrats say they are tantamount to cuts when inflation is considered. The budget also sets new rules limiting eligibility to youngsters with family incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $38,000 for a family of four.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Kent Conrad, chairman of the Budget Committee, reviewing the spending plan submitted yesterday by President Bush. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A19)Chart: ''The Plan to Balance the Budget''How the administration says the budget can be balanced in 2012.Projected Bottom Line in 2012 (IN BILLIONS)$147 BILLIONTHE BASELINEThe administration's starting point for estimating the budget shows this large surplus. It assumes that spending continues under levels specified by current law and that revenues will grow by about 5 percent annually for the next six years.Assessment: The administration's 5 percent revenue-growth assumption is more optimistic than most. The baseline may be as much as $150 billion more than others. However, they assume that existing tax cuts, due to expire, will be extended, which is not a political certainty.- MILITARYAdditional$18 spending on Iraq and Afghanistan and emergencies.Assessment: The administration does not include any new supplemental appropriations for Iraq and Afghanistan after 2009. The $18 billion here comes from outlays in appropriations in earlier years.- SECURITYSpending$52 for Defense and Homeland Security Departments.+NONSECURITYCuts$37 to other departments.- REVENUE$55 PROPOSALSNew tax cuts.Assessment: The largest portion of the tax cuts will come from replacing the health care deduction with a credit. Though this initially costs the government money, itprobably would bring in revenue in the future.- PERSONAL$30 ACCOUNTSThe president's alternative Social Security plan would begin in 2012.Assessment: The cost of this program starts small, but balloons in a few years.+ OTHER$32 PROPOSALSCuts to other mandatory spending programs.BOTTOM$61 LINEFirst surplus since 2001.Assessment: Missing from the administration's projections is relief from the alternative minimum tax, which Congress has passed and President Bush has signed each year. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the relief will cost the government about $90 billion in 2012.(Sources by Office of Management and Budget
 Richard Kogan, senior fellow, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICARE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (68%); TERRORISM (68%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); ARMED FORCES (60%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (50%) Taxation; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Medicaid; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KENT CONRAD (58%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



138 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: A Change in Ownership, But Not in Leadership

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Based on his vast experience with the sale of baseball teams, Steve Greenberg, a managing director at Allen & Company, said of the pending sale of the Atlanta Braves, ''It's always optimal to close a baseball sale during the off-season.''
 Time Warner, the Braves' owner for the past 11 years, and Liberty Media, the prospective buyer, had hoped to follow Greenberg's advice. Trouble is, they were talking about last off-season. If it's any consolation to them, there's still a chance they can get the deal done before the end of this off-season. 
Word among baseball officials in recent days is that the sale is moving closer to completion, maybe reaching that point in the next month or so. Opening day is April 1. To paraphrase Yogi Berra, it's not done until it's done, but both seller and buyer want to do it and expect to do it. 
 The primary reason the deal has taken so long to consummate is its tax ramifications and the necessary involvement of the Internal Revenue Service, which never seems to do anything quickly. The chairman of Liberty Media, John Malone, doesn't like to pay taxes. No, make that he won't pay taxes, capital gains taxes. He calls his policy tax efficiency, though it's really tax avoidance.
 In that regard, Malone isn't much different from any other citizen, but unlike most, Malone can avoid paying taxes because he has so much money at his disposal. His tax avoidance is entirely legal and, in fact, has I.R.S. sanction. 
 Not long ago, Malone executed an $11 billion asset swap with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Murdoch bought back Malone's 16.3 percent stake in Murdoch's company in exchange for $550 million in cash, 38.5 percent of DirecTV and three regional networks. 
 The Time Warner deal calls for Malone to return $1.8 billion in Time Warner stock, receiving in return the Braves, valued at $450 million, and the rest in cash.
 The inclusion of the Braves in the Time Warner deal and the chunk of DirecTV ownership and the regional networks in the Murdoch transaction enable Malone to avoid paying taxes. Under tax laws, asset swaps are different from outright sales. If an individual sells stock for cash, he has to pay capital gains tax. If he trades his stock for property, he can avoid the tax.
 What Malone does with his money and his property does not concern Major League Baseball. What he does with the Braves, on the other hand, does. In his talks with baseball officials, they have expressed a particular concern -- that when he owns the team, he retains Terry McGuirk to run it.
 McGuirk, who joined the Braves' operation in the early 1990s when Ted Turner owned the team, is chairman and president of the Braves and is highly regarded in baseball. As second in command to Turner for five years, then as the No. 1 officer after Turner merged with Time Warner, McGuirk operated the Braves throughout their unparalleled 14-year run as a division champion.
 McGuirk's continued role with the Braves, under Malone, would make for continued stability and continued employment of John Schuerholz as general manager and Bobby Cox as manager. They have been a winning combination for the Braves.
 McGuirk declined an interview request yesterday, but when Schuerholz was asked last week about the sale of the team, he said: ''It really matters not to us who owns this enterprise. We're still going to work as we do, go about our job in the same fashion. Whose name is on the paychecks or the letterheads, we still have our job to do.''
 The job, however, could become a little easier than it has been the past few years if Malone lets Schuerholz add to the payroll that Time Warner has limited. The Braves' payroll climbed every year they finished first, reaching a high of $104.6 million in 2003, until Time Warner cut back on their spending in 2004.
 Schuerholz's off-season activities this winter reflected the Braves' cutback mode. While several teams, including the Orioles and the Indians, bolstered their bullpens by signing free-agent relievers, the Braves strengthened theirs through trades. They acquired Mike Gonzalez from the Pirates for first baseman Adam LaRoche, and they obtained Rafael Soriano from the Mariners for starting pitcher Horacio Ramirez.
 ''It's a function of economics,'' Schuerholz said. ''Virtually every move we make is a counterbalance of ability versus finances, never trying to sacrifice once for the other. But there's always that counterbalancing. We needed to improve our bullpen. We didn't get to the playoffs last year because for the first three months we didn't have a functioning bullpen.''
 Malone has never owned a professional sports team -- he once tried unsuccessfully to buy a British soccer team -- so he doesn't have a track record to indicate how he might run the Braves. Efforts to reach Malone were unsuccessful. Julie Ballantine, manager of corporate communications for Liberty Media, did not return telephone calls yesterday. 
 But with McGuirk, Schuerholz and Cox remaining in place, baseball shouldn't expect a drastically different Brave new world.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Braves General Manager John Schuerholz, left, and Manager Bobby Cox could be working for a new owner, Liberty Media's chairman, John Malone, before the end of spring training. (Photo by Phelan M. Ebanhack/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (87%); TAX LAW (87%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (86%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%) Baseball; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: ALLEN & CO INC (91%); NEWS CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%) Atlanta Braves; Liberty Media

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (89%); JOHN MALONE (89%) Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



139 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Says Spitzer's Proposed Budget Would Carve a 'Hole' in City Finances

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg strongly criticized Gov. Eliot Spitzer's budget proposal on Monday, arguing that a recommended cut of $327.9 million in annual state aid to New York City would ''produce an enormous hole'' in the municipal budget.
 In his first public clash with the new governor, Mr. Bloomberg argued repeatedly that the city did not get its fair share of state dollars, from property tax exemptions to public housing subsidies. 
The governor disputed that characterization. He said the city would gain more than $1.3 billion in the coming fiscal year under his budget plan -- although more than half of that sum comes from actions previously taken by the state to limit the local growth in Medicaid spending and to take over costs associated with the Family Health Plus insurance program.
 ''Look at the net impact,'' Mr. Spitzer told reporters at the Capitol. ''Don't look at just one line item in isolation. Look at the net. When you look at the net, I think the city of New York comes out extraordinarily well, as it should.'' 
 Mr. Spitzer, meanwhile, began the process of fighting to get his proposed budget enacted by the Legislature by enlisting the help of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, the educational advocacy group that his office had fought in court during his eight years as state attorney general as the group pushed its lawsuit for more state aid to city schools. 
 Geri D. Palast, the campaign's executive director, said the governor's proposed budget was consistent with the group's goals in its landmark school financing lawsuit. ''We want to make you an honorary member of C.F.E.,'' she told the governor.
 Mr. Spitzer encouraged education advocacy groups to support his calls for distributing more money to high-need urban districts like New York City's. ''You are the troops who will determine the success of what we're trying to do,'' he told Ms. Palast.
 The alliance showed how much the political calculus of Albany has changed. Education advocates shared a stage with the governor, instead of picketing him, as they did sometimes to his predecessor, George E. Pataki. And with the governor and the Democratic-led Assembly very close in their approaches to school financing, the advocates could train their attention on the Republican-led State Senate, which is wary of the governor's proposal. 
 Although critical of the governor's overall budget, the mayor endorsed the governor's plans to revamp school aid formulas, tie increases in school financing to performance measures and raise the statewide cap on charter schools to 250 from 100. 
 While Mr. Bloomberg said ''we are grateful'' for the proposed increase in education spending, he maintained that even with the total amount of school aid growing, ''After all the 'Sturm und Drang' and court decisions, the city's share of state aid to education changes virtually not one bit.''
 From 2002 to 2011, he said, the city will have increased its spending on public schools by $5.8 billion a year, compared with a projected annual increase of $4.5 billion in state aid for the city schools. 
 Mr. Bloomberg saved his strongest criticism for Mr. Spitzer's plan to eliminate the city's share of a state program called Aid and Incentives to Municipalities, which provides the city with $327.9 million in unrestricted aid each year. 
 The city fuels the state economy, he said, contributes 48.6 percent of state tax revenues and pays $11 billion more each year to the state than it receives in aid. ''The state budget should not undercut New York City's, which, to some extent, this budget does,'' he said.
 The city has received the aid since 1946 and sees it as particularly valuable because it is steady from year to year -- unlike property tax receipts, the city's main source of revenue. 
 Because the aid to municipalities is disbursed toward the end of each calendar year, for the city fiscal year that ended the previous June 30, the reduction would amount to a one-time hit of about $660 million, the mayor said -- $327.9 million for the current fiscal year and $327.9 million for the next. 
 Furthermore, the mayor predicted that the loss of aid would be irreversible: ''Something that's gone is gone: Just take a look at the commuter tax.'' (That tax was repealed in 1999, costing New York City hundreds of millions of dollars a year.) 
 The mayor also criticized a proposal by Mr. Spitzer to increase the annual charge the city pays the state to administer the city's personal income tax, to $70 million from $40 million. He called on the Legislature to allow the city's Finance Department to administer the tax instead. 
 ''I'm confident they can do far better for us than hitting us with a 75 percent year-over-year increase for doing less work,'' he said. He said the task had become simpler because more taxpayers were using electronic filing and fewer people had to pay after the state repealed the city's commuter tax in 1999.
 The mayor asked the state to restore aid, cut nearly a decade ago, for 15 city public housing developments that were built in the 1950s with state dollars. The city's Housing Authority has to divert $60 million a year now in federal aid for operating costs at those developments. ''If the state wants to be more compassionate, as it says it does, here's a good place to start,'' the mayor said.
 The mayor asked the Legislature to renew the $400-a-year property tax rebate that began in 2004; ratify a plan to cut $250 million in business, corporate and sales taxes; provide a $1,000-a-year tax credit to low-income families with children under age 3; and raise the city's share of the cigarette tax to $2 per pack from $1.50. 
 The mayor also called for repealing the Wicks Law, which requires that four separate contractors be hired for public building projects; giving city child welfare officials access to income data on foster parents; tightening rules governing lawsuits against the city by its employees; halting the practice of improving city workers' pensions without the city's approval; and giving the city's Transitional Finance Authority $2.5 billion in additional capacity to issue bonds.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Owen H. Johnson, left, and Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr. greeted Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at a budget hearing yesterday. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LITIGATION (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Sewell Chan; Michael Cooper; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



140 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Fudging The Budget

BYLINE: By Steven Rattner. 
Steven Rattner is managing principal at the Quadrangle Group, a private investment firm.

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush sent his new budget to Congress yesterday, he trumpeted a continuing decline in the deficit and projected a swing back into the black by 2012. 
 But the accounting in the thick volumes issued by his Office of Management and Budget bears about as much similarity to the practices of private sector companies as Sanskrit does to Chinese. For sometimes obscure and sometimes political reasons, the federal government reports its finances in a way that portrays them far more favorably than they deserve.
The ''official'' deficit figure for the 2006 fiscal year is just under $250 billion. But a more accurate calculation would indicate a deficit nearly three times higher, and that is even without including some vast obligations the government owes. And while a strong economy is pushing down that headline deficit, the government's financial commitments actually grew more rapidly last year than in 2005. 
 In fact, the federal government itself obliquely acknowledges this chimera in a flotilla of other reports, including the obscure Financial Statement of the United States, prepared by the Government Accountability Office using methods closer to what a shareholder would find in an annual report.
 These adjustments concentrate on one gap in federal budget bookkeeping: the government's failure to properly account for the cost of pensions for its own workers. Simply incorporating this liability would increase the federal deficit by roughly $200 billion.
 But the official accounting is also misleading another way -- specifically, in the way it handles Social Security. In 2006, the federal government received $185 billion more in Social Security taxes than it paid out in benefits. Unlike a private company, which keeps such overages in its pension fund to cover future benefits, the White House pockets the money and declares the deficit to be smaller.
 Interestingly, until 1968, the federal government followed private sector practice by putting trust funds like Social Security in separate budgetary silos. Then President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed a commission that brought these programs into a new ''unified budget.''
 While the commission argued that a single federal budget would be less confusing and more reflective of the government's overall impact on the economy, skeptical commentators noted the salubrious effect -- in the midst of the Vietnam era guns-and-butter debate -- of wrapping in the Social Security surplus.
 Even if we adjusted properly for pensions and entitlements, we would leave unaddressed the largest financing gap, unheralded by President Bush yesterday: by some estimates, $39 trillion would have to be set aside now to pay for Social Security, Medicare and similar benefits that have already been promised. Just a year ago, those future obligations were $3 trillion less. Taken as a whole, the federal government's commitments have grown from $20 trillion in 2000 to $50 trillion today.
 To be sure, arcane and even misleading accounting policies long predate the current administration; for the past 10 years, the G.A.O. has cited ''material weaknesses in financial reporting'' by the government. In recent Congressional testimony, David M. Walker, comptroller general of the accountability office, said, ''Our fiscal and financial condition is worse than advertised.''
 And of course, the private sector has its shortcomings, particularly in providing medical benefits to retirees. But when it comes to pension obligations, the disparity is striking. Just two weeks ago, the consulting firm Towers Perrin reported that at the end of 2006, the pension funds of the Fortune 100 companies were actually overfinanced.
 Meanwhile, in Washington, the damage from gaming federal accounting idiosyncrasies grows exponentially. When President Johnson created the unified budget for the 1969 fiscal year, the ultimate effect was to turn a deficit of $507 million into a surplus of $3.2 billion. Today, our budgetary sleight-of-hand obscures hundreds of billions of dollars of shortfalls.
 Sadly, the solutions to this problem are well known and painful: more revenues (yes, including from rolling back President Bush's tax giveaway to the rich) or less spending (at long last, public outrage seems to be curbing the pork barrel ''earmarking'' process in Congress).
 But we'll have to go further than that. To make meaningful progress, we will need to tackle Social Security and Medicare. One glimmer of hope regarding Social Security has emerged from Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, whose many years of studying corporate financial statements doubtless contribute to his offering to work toward solutions with ''no preconditions.'' Both Democrats and Republicans should pull up chairs at Secretary Paulson's table with open minds.
 Building a political consensus behind difficult measures would be easier if the public were more accurately apprised of our fiscal condition. Unfortunately, simply importing private sector accounting practices wouldn't properly express the complexity of the federal government's activities and obligations.
 Instead, we need to elevate ''accrual accounting,'' which better measures the government's future pension responsibilities, to the same level of public visibility as the ''cash accounting'' figures that are now emphasized. And our primary measure of our deficit should exclude the Social Security surplus. Finally, our obligations for future entitlements payments -- the $39 trillion -- should also be emphasized in reports like today's.
 Back in 1802, Thomas Jefferson beseeched his Treasury secretary to adopt finances for America ''as clear and intelligible as a merchant's books'' so that ''every man of any mind in the union should be able to comprehend them.'' More than 200 years later, that advice remains regrettably unheeded. 
 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act tried to reform misleading private sector practices. The federal government needs a similar effort.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gary Taxali) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); MEDICARE (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) Accounting and Accountants

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); STEVEN RATTNER (58%) Steven Rattner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



141 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Shiite Calls for U.S.-Iran Talks

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
A senior Iraqi Shiite leader said Monday that his country had urged Iran to hold talks with the United States and that such talks were important for the security of the region. 
 ''Given the special conditions in the region, talks between the United States and Iran are of the utmost importance,'' Abdel Aziz al-Hakim, one of Iraq's most powerful Shiite leaders, said at a news conference in Tehran after meeting with the chief of the Supreme National Security Council, Ali Larijani according to the ISNA news agency.
''Negotiations between Iran and the United States are useful for the whole region,'' added Mr. Hakim, who lived in exile in Iran during Saddam Hussein's rule in Iraq and who has close ties with Iranian leaders. But Mr. Hakim said he did not have any specific messages on the subject. 
 Other Iraqi officials have also urged Iran to hold talks with the United States. Iran has said it is open to the idea. The United States has refused to hold direct talks with Iran over Iraq or over Iran's nuclear program. 
 Mr. Hakim also held talks on Monday with Iran's supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
 The details of the discussion in Tehran were not disclosed. Mr. Larijani said only that the two sides discussed ''security, economic and bilateral ties,'' ISNA reported. 
 However, analysts speculated that they might have discussed the fate of six Iranians who were arrested by American forces in a raid on an Iranian consulate in Erbil last month. Mr. Hakim said the Iraqi government was continuing its efforts for their release. 
 Numerous diplomats have traveled to Iran in the past month as tension has grown over its nuclear program and its role in Iraq. The visitors have included the foreign ministers of Qatar and Syria, an envoy from Saudi Arabia and Iraq's security minister, Shirwan al-Waili.
 European diplomats said Monday that Iran had set up two cascades of 164 centrifuges each in its underground nuclear plant, laying a basis for full-scale enrichment of uranium and increasing the stakes in its standoff with the West over its plans to enrich uranium, Reuters reported. 
 President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan visited Iran on Monday, meeting with Ayatollah Khamenei and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. ISNA reported that the two sides discussed a natural gas pipeline between Iran and India, which would cross Pakistan. The United States has been critical of the proposal. ISNA said the men also discussed Iraq and the Israeli-Palestinian situation.
 India's foreign minister, Pranab Mukherjee, is expected to be in Tehran on Tuesday to discuss the proposed pipeline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); POWER PLANTS (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); CENTRIFUGES (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (60%); ARRESTS (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (89%); ALI KHAMENEI (89%); PRANAB MUKHERJEE (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%) Nazila Fathi; Abdel Aziz Al- Hakim; Ali Larijani; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (94%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); QATAR (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iran; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



142 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Face Limits In Reshaping Bush Budget

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5 

 BODY:
With its military spending increases, reductions in popular domestic programs and calls to extend tax cuts, President Bush's $2.9 trillion budget for 2008 drew fire from Democrats the minute it landed on Monday. 
 But while Democratic critics may wish to challenge the administration's blueprint, political and fiscal constraints will make it hard for them to assert their own priorities.
In theory, the budget presents the Democrats their first real opportunity to rewrite the administration's policies, especially on tax cuts, that they have been attacking for six years. 
 But in practice, Democrats know that the only way they can find the revenue to restore the administration's proposed spending cuts would be to cut back on military spending, delay their stated intentions to balance the budget or rescind the Bush tax cuts in future years. They are not especially eager to do any of these.
 The most likely result, even some Democrats acknowledge, will be a limited reshaping of the budget by restoring some proposed cuts in a variety of domestic programs, including children's health care, Head Start and home heating assistance for the poor and the elderly.
 But few Democrats are expected to look for new revenues by calling for an end to Mr. Bush's tax cuts, instead of extending them as the president proposed Monday, or to deal with the looming costs of Social Security and Medicare as the postwar generation retires, all of which pose huge budget problems in future years.
 ''The long-term budget crisis appears so distant that it's going to be very hard to get politicians excited about it this year,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute. ''The economy is strong, and the deficit seems to be at manageable levels right now. No one wants to risk popular support by doing something courageous.''
 Since 2001, Democratic leaders have made a point of saying that the Bush tax cuts are unfairly weighted toward the wealthy and dangerous to American solvency. But the tax cuts expire in 2010, and Democrats acknowledge that they are not ready to move on them now.
 One development could reopen the tax cuts to revision this year, Democrats say: a signal from the administration that it would be willing to consider a repeal of some cuts for the wealthiest as part of a deal to pay for other priorities.
 The issues most often mentioned that might entice Democrats to the bargaining table with the administration would be a package to finance future Social Security benefits, possibly combined with a curb on some benefits. Democrats might also want to cut a deal over the alternative minimum tax, which was devised to make sure that wealthy taxpayers with numerous deductions paid some taxes but which is increasingly ensnaring the middle class because of inflation.
 Democrats say that in both cases the administration would have to move first to put discussion of taxes on the table.
 Both Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Rob Portman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, have dropped hints of such deals, ruling out ''preconditions'' for talks on Social Security. The implication is that private investment accounts to replace Social Security for future retirees are not a requirement for a deal.
 ''By saying there are no preconditions and we should all come to the table, that was a change in position,'' Mr. Portman told reporters Monday, noting that in the past the administration had pushed its plan for the investment accounts from the outset. 
 He also said it was an ''olive branch'' to propose the accounts but to delay their enactment until 2012.
 Democrats remain skeptical and distrustful. They note, for instance, a recent comment by Vice President Dick Cheney to Fox News that overtures by Mr. Paulson and Mr. Portman did not signal a change in administration attitudes on taxes, only a desire to get Democrats to negotiate.
 Moreover, despite Mr. Portman's talk of olive branches, Democrats see only trapdoors. They say Mr. Bush's claim to reach the goal of balancing the budget by 2012 rested on what they see as shaky assumptions. 
 Mr. Portman acknowledged, for instance, that the budget assumed only a nominal cost -- $50 billion -- for the Iraq war in 2009 and no cost after that. In addition, the administration assumes that tax increases due to kick in years from now will do so, in spite of the near certainty that Congress will prevent them from occurring, widening the deficit further. 
 Another constraint on the Democrats is their adoption of a ''pay as you go'' approach, meaning that they have to find savings in other parts of the budget for any new spending they want to make. 
 The Democrats fear after campaigning on the promise of avoiding widening the budget deficit, they cannot afford to waver on that score now.
 Still, not everyone in the party is a deficit hawk. Among the 2008 presidential candidates, former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has already said that he would defer the goal of a balanced budget to finance health, education and help for the poor. Other Democrats, including several in the Senate, may well have to follow suit.
 Last week, without much fanfare, House Democrats passed a stopgap spending bill for the current year that increased federal spending in cherished areas by only about 1 percent -- exactly the rate of increase that the administration says it seeks in domestic programs for the coming year.
 The box that the Democrats find themselves in is likely to remain a factor in their spending decisions this year.
 Even Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee and the biggest Cassandra in Congress about the perils of continued deficits, seemed to acknowledge that he had had trouble convincing even fellow Democrats of the urgency of the long-term fiscal problems.
 ''Let me be frank,'' Mr. Conrad said at a recent budget hearing. ''We're having a very difficult time persuading our colleagues and the administration of the need for urgent action.'' 
 Although Mr. Bush traveled to a Democratic retreat over the weekend and promised to try to accomplish ''big things'' with their help in his last two years of office, Democrats and their supporters tend to view the likelihood of budget fixes to be tiny, not big.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CHILDREN (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); MEDICARE (66%) United States Armament and Defense; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007



143 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: A Directionless Market Ends Barely Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street eked out a modest advance yesterday after investors found little motivation in remarks by Federal Reserve officials and shrugged off a warning from a chip maker, National Semiconductor.
 Major indexes closed with gains after spending most of the session extending Monday's losses. Investors have been looking for direction after the Fed held interest rates steady last week, and as corporate earnings season winds down.
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, did not address interest rates when he spoke at the Omaha Chamber of Commerce, and speeches by two other central bankers and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. also did little to sway investors. 
 National Semiconductor warned that its sales would fall more steeply than expected, casting a shadow on the market. But by the close of trading, even the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index had recovered.
 High-tech stocks could rebound tomorrow as Cisco Systems reported after the closing bell that its second-quarter profit jumped 40 percent, surpassing expectations. The results sent shares of the company, considered a technology bellwether, up $1.20, or 4.4 percent, to $28.48, in after-hours trading.
 Gains in major stock indexes yesterday ran less than a tenth of a percent. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 4.57 points, to 12,666.31. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.01 point, to 1,448. The Nasdaq rose 0.89 point, to 2,471.49. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies advanced 3.72 points, or 0.46 percent, to 810.03.
 Market breadth, though, was more positive, with advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbering decliners by nearly 2 to 1. Volume came to 1.47 billion shares.
 Oil prices were up slightly on concern that frigid weather in the Northeast and the Midwest might linger and spur demand for heating fuel. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for March delivery rose 14 cents a barrel, to settle at $58.88.
 Any benefit to big oil companies was offset by disappointing results from BP, which fell 54 cents, to $63.25, after reporting that fourth-quarter profit slipped 22 percent and cutting its growth targets for this year. Anadarko Petroleum shares fell 48 cents, to $42.47, after it said its quarterly profit doubled on a one-time gain from the sale of a Canadian unit. Exxon Mobil fell 21 cents, to $75.46, and Chevron shed 41 cents, closing at $73.37.
 Matt Kelmon, portfolio manager of the Kelmoore Strategy Funds, said investors would be looking at fluctuations in energy industries as one way to pick a direction. 
 ''The market is not expensive, it's not dirt cheap, and the catalyst over the past few weeks has been earnings,'' he said. ''Everything is really on hold until the market finds something else to talk about, but there's still no huge sign of an imminent pullback.''
 Among technology stocks, National Semiconductor fell 64 cents, to $22.68, after it predicted smaller-than-expected sales this quarter because of lower shipments to the Asia-Pacific region. Advanced Micro Devices fell 28 cents, to $15.32, and Texas Instruments lost 37 cents, closing at $31.22. Intel rose 3 cents, to $21.31.
 Avon Products advanced $3.38, or nearly 10 percent, to $38, after reporting that its fourth-quarter profit edged up from a year earlier.
 McClatchy, one of the largest newspaper companies, rose 53 cents, to $39.29, after its operating earnings surpassed Wall Street projections.
 Las Vegas Sands fell $3.41, to $100.68, after it reported that its fourth-quarter profit had been bolstered by an unexpected $30 million gain from its high-stakes table.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 9/32, to 98 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.77 percent, from 4.80 percent. Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction for four-week bills and three-year notes.(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.861High Yield: 4.800Low Yield: 4.770Median Yield: 4.790Total applied for: $48,936,947Accepted: $17,467,776Noncompetitive: $302,687Interest set at: 4 3/4%The 3-year notes mature February 15, 2010.(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.607High Rate: 5.045Coupon Yield: 5.135Low Rate: 5.010Median Rate: 5.030Total applied for: $52,188,014Accepted: $21,634,894Noncompetitive: $388,136The four-week bills mature March 08, 2007.
 Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); APC (NYSE) (53%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (53%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (57%) NEBRASKA, USA (57%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



144 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Bridging Gaps Early On In Oklahoma

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla. 

 BODY:
To get to the new preschool in the Kendall-Whittier neighborhood here, you drive down a dead-end stretch of East Fifth Place. Two of the houses on the street have been boarded up. Outside some of the others, cardboard boxes and appliances sit on the front lawn. Last week, those boxes and appliances were covered with snow. 
 But then you get to the end of the block and see the brick and stone building with the bright blue roof. Inside, sunlight streams into a front atrium, and children run around big classrooms that are filled with new wooden furniture. Set aside the neighborhood, and most parents would be thrilled to have their child going to school in a place like this.
 The school is called Tulsa Educare, and it is the showpiece for the finest state preschool system in the country. And, yes, that state is Oklahoma, a bastion of small-government conservatism that hasn't voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Lyndon B. Johnson. 
 Almost a decade ago, thanks to a low-key push by a small group of state legislators, business executives and educators, Oklahoma agreed to pay for one year of prekindergarten. The program is voluntary, but 70 percent of 4-year-olds here now attend public preschool, more than in any other state. In every classroom, the head teacher must have a bachelor's degree -- nationwide, most preschool teachers don't -- and there must be a teacher for every 10 students.
 This combination of quality and scale makes the Oklahoma program one of the most serious attempts to deal with economic inequality anywhere in the country. Long before children turn 5, there are already enormous gaps in their abilities. One study found that 3-year-olds with professional parents know about 1,100 words on average, while 3-year-olds whose parents are on welfare know only 525. Much of the gap is caused by environment rather than genes, according to a wide body of research.
 By letting children start school at age 4 -- and, if the current governor has his way, eventually at age 3 -- Oklahoma is trying to give all of them at least a shot at success. Dexie Organ, a former drug user whose son David attends a Tulsa preschool she loves, put it better than I can: ''I don't care if they're drug addicts' children or doctors' children -- there is no child that should not have this opportunity.''
 James J. Heckman , a Nobel Prize-winning economist at the University of Chicago, even argues that spending on preschool ultimately pays for itself. Early childhood education is so important that it makes workers more productive and reduces crime. No other form of education spending, certainly not the college financial-aid package passed recently by the House of Representatives, brings nearly the same bang for the buck.For years, advocates of early education have pointed to a few well-known success stories like the Perry Preschool Project in Ypsilanti, Mich. The low-income children from those programs went on to do better in school than many of their peers, to be arrested less often and to earn more money. But Perry was small and intensive, not the sort of program likely to be replicated nationwide.
 Oklahoma is not a test. It suffers from all the typical imperfections of a big bureaucracy (including urinals at some schools that were too high for 4-year-old boys). 
 The state pays about $4,000 per 4-year-old, which isn't enough for a full-day program. So some school districts offer only a half-day, leaving working parents to cobble together day care for the other half; other districts use federal or private funds to make up the difference. A local oil billionaire named George B. Kaiser, No. 27 on the Forbes 400 list of the richest Americans, and Warren E. Buffett's daughter, Susan, essentially paid for the construction of Educare.
 But the early results in Oklahoma have still been very encouraging. In every socioeconomic group, 4-year-olds have benefited from attending public preschool, researchers at Georgetown University found . (Most go to an elementary school, not a separate school like Educare.) All else being equal, for example, a child who went through a year of prekindergarten did 52 percent better on a letter-recognition test than one who didn't. 
 Not surprisingly, the gains were largest for low-income children and for Latinos, many of whom don't hear English at home. At McClure Elementary School here, where 97 percent of families are poor enough to qualify for free or reduced-price lunches, one whole class of kindergarteners started writing full sentences last month. Before the preschool program existed, teachers would celebrate if every student knew the alphabet by the end of kindergarten. 
 When I asked Bertha Jimenuez, whose son Ivan attends another Tulsa preschool, what he had learned there, she laughed and said: ''Todo. Todo.'' Everything. 
 The big remaining question is whether the gains will last for more than a few years, as they did for the Perry graduates. That won't be clear for a while. But Oklahoma's program has already been promising enough to inspire Illinois, Iowa, New Mexico, Virginia and other states to try to expand preschool. (Georgia has a pretty good program that predates Oklahoma's.) 
 As this list of states suggests, preschool cuts across some of the usual ideological lines. Liberals like its antipoverty bent; conservatives prefer education to straight income redistribution; and business executives see preschool as a way to build a better work force. Mr. Kaiser likes to refer to himself as a ''robber baron from red-state America'' who has come to love public preschool. 
 The biggest preschool opponents tend to be religious conservatives worried about the creation of a nanny state. ''There are plenty of critics,'' Brad Henry, Oklahoma's Democratic governor, told me, shortly before calling for universal preschool for 3-year-olds in his State of the State address on Monday. ''We'll just have to make the case.''
 It's worth remembering that some of this opposition stems from simple self-interest. Universal preschool is a threat to the many churches that help support themselves with the revenue from their day care programs. For the same reason, a coalition of Montessori schools in California helped defeat a flawed preschool ballot initiative there last year.
 The opponents do have one important point to make: governments can put too much emphasis on preschool and day care. Children below age 1 fare better on average when a parent is home with them, research has shown, and toddlers can suffer if they spend long hours in day care. The ideal early-childhood policy wouldn't just pay for preschool. It would also make it easier for parents to take time off from work. 
 But this country isn't yet in any danger of having too much preschool. Just consider what has happened in the last generation: millions of women have entered the work force, making child care a real challenge for many families, and a deluge of scientific studies has pointed to the importance of early learning. Yet most states have done almost nothing to respond to the changes. 
 Did I mention that you can buy a perfectly nice house in Tulsa for $200,000?

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Educare school in Tulsa, Okla. (Photo by Brandi Simons for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Tulsa Educare educates 200 of the city's poorest children from birth to age 5 with private and public financing.
 Jacqueline Avina, left, who is 4, and Andrea Lopez, also 4, eat lunch in their classroom at Tulsa Educare, a preschool in Oklahoma. (Photographs by Brandi Simons for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PARENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); GOVERNORS (68%); CONSERVATISM (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (53%) Education and Schools; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Tulsa Educare

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) OKLAHOMA, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (99%) Oklahoma; Tulsa (Okla)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



145 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: When Boy Meets Gay Hustler, Some Personal Truths Are Sure to Emerge

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
American plays have imparted many a life lesson over the past century. We have learned that attention must be paid to salesmen, for instance, and that depending on the kindness of strangers is not a workable strategy, particularly in New Orleans.
 Lately a couple of American playwrights have reiterated another sobering apothegm: Don't fall in love with the gay hustler. It will end in tears.
This may be the most salient bit of wisdom to be culled from ''All That I Will Ever Be,'' a new play by Alan Ball, the creator of HBO's ''Six Feet Under'' and the Oscar-winning screenwriter of ''American Beauty.'' If the advice sounds familiar, that's probably because Douglas Carter Beane's Hollywood satire, ''The Little Dog Laughed,'' which ends its run on Broadway this month, could be said to send the same urgent telegram to the world. 
 Mr. Ball's play, which opened last night at New York Theater Workshop, follows the exploits of a hustler working the shallows of Los Angeles society. A more self-important morality tale than Mr. Beane's, it is a slick entry in the sick-soul-of-society genre, concerning the futile search for connection among characters who crave intimacy even as they build cinder-block walls around their damaged hearts.
 The central character is Omar (Peter Macdissi), who sells phones by day at a chain store and sells himself by night as a hunk of Arabian (or Persian or Greek) exotica. As in ''The Little Dog Laughed,'' our hero forges an unlikely intimacy with one of his clients after a soul-baring postcoital conversation.
 Dwight (Austin Lysy) is a young layabout who spends his time getting high and wallowing in anomie. His complacency -- and some racist epithets he grunted out (implausibly) during sex -- gets under Omar's skin. Conversation grows testy when Omar refuses to answer Dwight's casual questions about his background. ''I don't like to reveal things about myself,'' he says.
 Knowingly filling in the blanks, Dwight engages in some instant analysis: ''You're ashamed of your accent,'' he says. ''Being gay is relatively new to you, you feel very powerful doing this, and the power is the turn-on, not the money. You don't feel powerful in any other area of your life. You're not as young as you used to be, and you're starting to get scared.''
 Omar responds with his own potted character profile. ''You come from money,'' he begins. ''Your dad made a bundle in, what, TV? Divorced your mom when he got successful, and felt very guilty about it. Now I bet you get a monthly check in return for him not having to spend any time with you, because he hates it that you're gay.''
 Despite this hostile exchange, Omar and Dwight eventually begin revealing the truth beneath the half-truths, and filaments of a real connection are forged. But as their intimacy grows, so does Omar's emotional fragility as the pain of discovering the truth about his place on the Hollywood food chain gnaws at his heart. Compulsively lying about himself to play the roles he's cut out to play in the social and sexual economy, he has forgotten where he hid his own identity.
 In scenes depicting this unlikely pair's evolving friendship, Dwight's fraught relationship with his father and Omar's interaction with a girlfriend (Kandiss Edmundson as a would-be Hollywood hotshot who, also implausibly, picks Omar up at his day job), Mr. Ball's dialogue rings with acerbic commentary about our chronic self-absorption, American decadence and the emptiness of a consumerist culture.
 The problem is that Mr. Ball's analyses themselves seem glib, prefabricated and marketed past the point of freshness. They clutter up the play like last season's leftovers stuffed on sale racks at the Gap. As the play's eloquently self-aware characters trot out the usual therapy-speak about their issues and the self-protective habit of ''avoiding emotional risk,'' a running gag comparing Dwight's world-weary effusions to verbal flatulence strikes a little too close to home.
 And frankly, given the erratic behavior of Omar, avoiding emotional risk seems a pretty sensible option for anyone in his orbit. Lurching between sensitive confessions of love and angry accusations of exploitation and racism, the character grows increasingly tiresome -- ultimately repellent and abusive, in the distasteful last scene -- as he insinuates himself into Dwight's life. Nor is Dwight, with his irony-infused petulance, much more appealing.
 A more effective performance might give credibility to Omar's inconsistencies, but Mr. Macdissi's self-conscious acting fails to win any sympathy for his bruised character. He indicates a change in Omar's emotional state primarily by raising or lowering his voice, and occasionally garbles his lines.
 Under the uncharacteristically obvious direction of Jo Bonney, the rest of the actors fare a bit better, particularly Mr. Lysy, who is excellent as the spoiled but yearning rich kid, and David Margulies, who has a single scene as one of Omar's older clients, wise to the hard knocks of late-life homosexuality. (He awakens Omar to a cruel truth of his profession in a line that appeared almost verbatim in ''The Little Dog Laughed'': ''Sweetheart, people don't pay your kind for sex,'' he says. ''They pay you to leave.'')
 Mr. Ball has a fondness for exploring the dark currents that trouble contemporary relationships, as anyone who watched ''Six Feet Under'' well knows. But the intimacies depicted in ''All That I Will Ever Be'' feel contrived to make his points about the poses people strike to hide their insecurities, and how we lie to one another because we can't face the truth about ourselves. In the end the play's soul-searching can be boiled down to a familiar bromide, to wit: honesty is the best policy. Even if you happen to be a gay hustler.All That I Will Ever BeBy Alan Ball; directed by Jo Bonney; sets by Neil Patel; costumes by Emilio Sosa; lighting by David Lander; sound by Darron L. West; fight choreography by J. Steven White; production stage manager, Larry K. Ash; assistant stage managers, Tom Dooley and Sharika Niles. Presented by the New York Theater Workshop, James C. Nicola, artistic director; Lynn Moffat, managing director. At the New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 239-6200. Through March 11. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes. WITH: Patch Darragh (White Guy/Bart/Eddie/Waiter), Kandiss Edmundson (Cynthia/Beth), Austin Lysy (Dwight), Peter Macdissi (Omar), David Margulies (Raymond) and Victor Slezak (Chuck Bennett/Phil).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Macdissi, left, as Omar, and Austin Lysy as Dwight in ''All That I Will Ever Be,'' a play by Alan Ball. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (72%); COMEDY FILMS (69%); RETAILERS (64%) Theater; Reviews

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Alan Ball; Jo Bonney; Peter Macdissi; Austin Lysy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



146 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Fruits of Research Close to Home

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
In the late 1990s, Dr. William H. Danforth, chancellor emeritus of Washington University here, watched as a faculty member in the university's engineering department tried to market an innovative device -- a switch to speed transactions on the Internet -- that had emerged out of a research project. 
 ''He tried for two years to get a company started in St. Louis and failed,'' said Dr. Danforth, the older brother of John C. Danforth, the former United States senator.
Giving up, the faculty member then moved to San Francisco, where he quickly found financial backers, office and research space and other kinds of assistance. In less than a year, the company was sold to Cisco Systems for $350 million. 
 That experience, Dr. Danforth said, convinced him that something needed to be done to reorient the business climate in his native city. 
 ''We have great research here,'' he said, ''but we have not done so well with the commercialization of that science.'' 
 In 2001, Dr. Danforth -- along with a number of other business and civic leaders -- founded the Coalition for Plant and Life Sciences, a nonprofit group. The goal was to jump-start St. Louis's nascent biotechnology industry by providing both new and mature companies with increased access to financing and up-to-date facilities. 
 Dr. Danforth, a cardiologist, says that St. Louis is better positioned than many cities to capitalize on biotech because of the number of universities and other institutions in the area. The city also has a number of research sites run by large agricultural and pharmaceutical companies, like Monsanto and Pfizer. 
 Over the last six years, the coalition has had some notable successes. On the financial side, the amount of biotech venture capital funds either invested or managed in St. Louis has climbed to $556 million.
 ''We've gone from virtually nothing to having structured investments and investors in place,'' said Robert T. Fraley, chief technology officer of Monsanto and a member of the coalition.
 Probably the most visible outgrowth of this effort, however, is the Center of Research, Technology and Entrepreneurial Exchange. Known as Cortex, it is a 250-acre office and research district in a blighted neighborhood just west of downtown. 
 The district is controlled by a nonprofit consortium formed by Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis University, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, the University of Missouri-St. Louis and the Missouri Botanical Garden, which are all within a few miles of the area. They all also conduct research in the area of life sciences.
 ''The idea has evolved,'' said John P. Dubinsky, a banker and civic leader who functions as the unpaid chairman of the consortium's board. ''The original goal was to build the biotech industry in St. Louis by providing facilities for emerging companies. But as we got into it, we became intrigued with the idea of marrying that goal to a massive neighborhood redevelopment project.''
 The neighborhood -- which has irregular boundaries and zigzags around various residential areas -- was once one of the city's main manufacturing and distribution districts. 
 Today, however, Mr. Dubinsky estimates that ''10 percent of the buildings are empty, and 80 percent are either way underutilized or partially occupied.''
 The consortium currently owns 30 acres of the site and is negotiating for another 10 acres. It also has development rights for about three-quarters of the district.
 The city is offering various financial incentives, like tax abatement, to companies that relocate to the area.
 The mayor of St. Louis, Francis G. Slay, says the project has the potential to reshape the city's economy.
 ''The idea is to pull all of these assets and institutions together and create an environment that will be attractive for biotech and life science development and will also revitalize the city and create jobs,'' he said. ''We were the fourth-largest city in America in 1910. In 2000, we were the 52nd largest. We need to create opportunities for investment in the city. Otherwise, people just won't do it.''
 Cortex remained more of a concept than a reality until two years ago when Mr. Dubinsky learned that Stereotaxis, a medical device company housed in a nearby incubator facility, was looking to relocate. 
 The prospect that the company, an example of the kind of firm Cortex was seeking to attract, might leave the city galvanized the consortium into undertaking its first development project: a 165,000-square-foot speculative office and research building on Forest Park Boulevard. 
 Completed in late 2005, the sleek, futuristic-looking building cost $36 million and was designed by Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, an architectural firm based in St. Louis.
 ''We cobbled the thing together,'' said Lewis A. Levey, president of development for Cortex. ''When we started, we didn't have site control, zoning, financing or complete plans. We built it in record time.''
 The building, which Cortex owns, currently is 80 percent leased to two tenants, Stereotaxis and the Center for Applied Nanomedicine, a division of the Washington University School of Medicine. 
 James M. Stolze, chief financial officer of Stereotaxis, said the building had worked out well. ''From our perspective, this was an ideal package: a building that was designed around our needs,'' he said. ''That's hard to find.''
 Mr. Stolze added that biotech office space in St. Louis was generally in short supply. ''There really isn't that much to look at,'' he said. ''The two buildings we considered in addition to Cortex were both turn-of-the-century warehouses that were going to be rehabbed.''
 Looking ahead, Mr. Dubinsky said the goal was to complete 1.5 million square feet of new office and research space in the district over the next five years. 
 He also said the consortium would undertake significant street and infrastructure improvements in the area, including a new station of the St. Louis light-rail system.
 ''Our goal is to be the enablers,'' he said. ''We want to attract private developers by making it easy for them to come in here in terms of helping them find money and tenants and also to help them deal with the political issues.''
 Late last summer, Cortex turned a significant corner when a private developer broke ground on a second building steps away from the first. 
 The new building is expected to be 160,000 square feet and is budgeted to cost about $60 million. The developer is Robert G. Clark, the chairman and chief executive of Clayco, a local firm that specializes in structures for corporations and institutions. 
 Mr. Clark says the opportunity represented by Cortex ''makes my eyes widen.''
 ''Both Washington University and St. Louis University are major research hubs, and Cortex is located between them. We're definitely not taking a loss on this.''
 Nevertheless, he says that ''it was a challenge to raise capital.''
 ''We had to get financial partners to really understand Cortex and the people who are there and believe in what the area is going to be.'' 
 The new building, which is scheduled to be finished in 2008, will be occupied by the Solae Company, a soy-based food additives company. 
 Tony L. Arnold, president and chief executive of Solae, said the opportunity to be part of the emerging research park was an important consideration in the company's decision to move. 
 ''We needed a location where we could combine an office and research facility with a small manufacturing operation,'' he said. ''Cortex allows us to do that while at the same time being in a location where it seems like there's going to be a substantial investment made by the city.''
 Another factor, he added, was the opportunity to be part of a cluster of high-tech businesses. 
 ''Being in an area where science and innovation are happening is important to us,'' he said. ''Our business model depends on having access to scientists and to knowledge centers like Washington University.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The first project in the Cortex district was a 165,000-square-foot speculative office and research building, top and above. Top right, John P. Dubinsky, left, and Dr. William H. Danforth help lead Cortex. (Photographs by William Zbaren for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (60%) Medicine and Health; Research; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); PFIZER INC (53%); MONSANTO CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Coalition for Plant and Life Sciences

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); MON (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (53%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (53%)

PERSON: William H (Dr) Danforth; Robert Sharoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) St Louis (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



147 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: To Sell Trucks, Toyota Shuns the Subtle

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
WITH its new full-size Tundra pickup, Toyota is not simply ''moving forward,'' as the automaker's advertising slogan asserts. It is taking its product and marketing strategy in a new direction.
 That means projecting an image of itself that Americans have not seen before from Toyota -- one built on horsepower and ''my brakes are bigger than yours'' machismo.
Nowhere in Toyota's newest round of ads is there a mention of fuel economy, hybrid technology or anything else that has helped put it on pace to become the world's largest carmaker this year. 
 The campaign for the Tundra, which began on Sunday with a pair of spots during the Super Bowl, is one of the few instances of Toyota's strategy emulating that of its Detroit-based rivals.
 ''If you want to be a player in the full-size truck market, you can't be subtle,'' said James D. Farley, Toyota's vice president for North American marketing. ''We couldn't out-emotionalize our competitors. What we could do is outperform them, and we think that's emotional.''
 The Tundra ads are certainly not subtle. For one ad, the company built a five-story steel seesaw in a desert. A Tundra pulling a 10,000-pound trailer speeds up the incline, then the seesaw swings down and the truck quickly brakes to a halt before it reaches the ground. The other spot shows a Tundra speeding toward the edge of a cliff before screeching to a halt inches from disaster.
 The stunt driver hired by Toyota described it as ''the scariest commercial he'd ever done,'' Mr. Farley said.
 In a third national ad, workers toss bags of manure into a Tundra, described by a voice-over as having ''the biggest honkin' bed.'' The spot concludes by saying the truck ''answers the age-old question of how to put a ton of whatever in a half-ton bag'' referring to the traditional carrying capacity of standard full-size pickups.
 This is from a company best known for refined ads like a 1989 spot depicting 10 Champagne flutes stacked on the hood of a Lexas LS400 sedan, unaffected by the smooth revs of the engine. During last year's Super Bowl, Toyota showed a Hispanic father explaining the gas-electric hybrid engine of his Camry sedan as a metaphor for the benefits of learning both English and Spanish.
 The Tundra campaign, the carmaker's largest ever, is expected to cost more than $100 million, although officials would not be more specific. More than half of that budget is earmarked for hundreds of local events throughout the country aimed at giving truck buyers who might not wander into a Toyota dealership a closer look at the Tundra.
 Toyota has scheduled ride-and-drive events at retailers like Bass Pro Shops, Tractor Supply Company stores and at concerts by Brooks & Dunn, the country music duo.
 ''Most of the people who do buy pickup trucks are very loyal to whatever brand it is,'' said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing Research, an automotive consulting firm in Bandon, Ore. ''You're not going to find many Ford truck owners who switch over to a Chevy. You really have to put the truck in their hands in order for them to be convinced. You can't do it just through advertising.''
 Toyota has called on its dealers to play a larger role than usual in marketing the Tundra. In the last few years, Toyota says its dealers have spent $3 billion expanding and renovating to prepare for the Tundra's arrival. (Given that Toyota's lineup consists mainly of small cars, many dealerships' service departments were not large enough to accommodate the new Tundra.)
 San Marcos Toyota, about halfway between Austin, Tex., and the newly opened plant in San Antonio where the Tundra is built, has even planned a tailgate party.
 The dealership has rented props used in the 2004 movie ''The Alamo,'' hired a band and scheduled the city's mayor and other politicians to attend its Western-themed party next weekend.
 ''We're going to get down and have a good old time,'' said Mike Basham, a manager at the dealership.
 Toyota expects to sell about 200,000 Tundras in the United States this year, mostly to consumers who have owned other models it sells. At the same time, the company also has its sights set on truck shoppers who have never owned a Japanese brand and are likely to be skeptical of Toyota's ability to build a quality pickup.
 ''They're looking for just one thing to not like on that truck,'' Mr. Farley said.
 To that end, 25,000 dealership employees -- including sales representatives, service managers and receptionists -- went through training ahead of the vehicle's introduction. One person at each dealership has been designated a ''Tundra champion'' in charge of the truck's introduction there.
 Indeed, as the tagline for the Tundra proclaims, it is ''the truck that's changing it all,'' at least for Toyota itself. As successful as the company has been in the small-car and hybrid segments, among others, analysts say Toyota's tried-and-true approach simply would not have connected with truck buyers in the middle of America. ''They've got a tough road ahead of them,'' Mr. Spinella said. ''This is a whole new world when they get into full-size pickups.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The full-size Toyota Tundra shows off its towing capacity in a new commercial by hauling a five-ton trailer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MARKETING STRATEGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (77%) Automobiles; Advertising; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



148 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Cruise Line to Lady Liberty Is Up for Bid, With Caveats

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
For tourists who huddle in Battery Park on summer days, getting to the Statue of Liberty is no luxury cruise. 
 The only way to reach Liberty Island from New York City is to file onto one of the old Circle Line boats, after enduring a long wait for tickets and a line at the security checkpoint where all visitors must remove their shoes, jackets and belts.
 Now, for the first time in 18 years, the National Park Service contract to run boats to Liberty and Ellis Islands, which expires on March 31, is up for bid. Competitors are lining up for the first real chance to unseat the Circle Line in 50 years.
 And city officials and groups promoting new uses of the waterfront are hoping for changes that will make the statue more accessible for tourists as well as New Yorkers. Some have also called for smaller, faster boats that they believe can reverse a 23 percent decline in visitors since the Sept. 11 attack. 
 But in the few weeks since the Park Service began taking bids from ferry operators for the 10-year contract, potentially worth more than $350 million, many of those hopes have been dashed.
 ''It is just a complete mess what they've done here,'' said Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a Democrat from Brooklyn, referring to the Park Service. ''They didn't use this big cash cow to do more expansive ferry service throughout the harbor. They didn't show any kind of vision about expanding the ferry service.''
 Mr. Weiner and Daniel L. Doctoroff, a deputy mayor, as well as Maria Burks, the commissioner of the National Parks of New York Harbor, have said that one of their goals is to have ferries transport people to the parks and beaches that surround the harbor. 
 The contract for ferries to Liberty and Ellis is an integral part of that vision, because it is a lucrative piece of business that could subsidize other less profitable ferry routes. 
 Carter Craft, director of the Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance, which advocates for public access to the water, said the Park Service should use the contract to extract from the bidders ferry service to other parks in the region, like Jacob Riis Park and the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge. 
 ''The Statue-Ellis concession is such easy money,'' Mr. Craft said. ''It is a once-in-20-years concession that serves about 1 of every 10 visitors that come here.'' Ferry service done right, he added, could provide a huge opportunity by ''distributing tourism throughout every part of the city that touches the water.''
 But the Park Service's request for bids appears to hew largely to the status quo -- including a requirement that the winner buy the old ferries from the Circle Line, if the Circle Line is outbid. 
 Park Service officials would respond to questions about the bidding only through e-mail messages, the same method of communication used with potential bidders. They said they hoped to improve the ticketing process and the security screening, which they described as a ''sometimes inconvenient, yet necessary.'' They also said they were confident that after those improvements, ''our visitors will have a fuller, more educational and satisfying experience than currently offered.'' 
 The bidding period will close in late April; the new contract will probably take effect in the fall. 
 In 2005, the Circle Line's revenue from the service exceeded $35 million, making it one of six largest commercial operations in the entire national park system (the combined total of visitors to the statue and Ellis Island that year was about 4.2 million, down from 5.5 million in 2000). The winner of the new contract will have to pay 18 percent of its total revenue to the park agency.
 The Circle Line, which charges a fare of $11.50, has held the contract exclusively since 1953. But under new rules established by Congress in 1998, the Park Service must give other bidders a fair shot at replacing the incumbent. Competitors said the Circle Line's monopoly is vulnerable for the first time and its shortcomings are showing.
 But J. B. Meyer, the president of Circle Line-Statue of Liberty, the ferry operator, defended the service as safe and reliable.
 ''We have the best-maintained fleet in New York Harbor, period,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''These are the right vessels for the route.'' 
 The prospect of landing such a steady, profitable franchise has drawn the interest of more than a dozen other companies, ranging from local ferry operators like New York Waterway and New York Water Taxi to tugboat companies like McAllister Towing to big food-service companies like the Aramark Corporation. Representatives of prospective bidders, some from as far away as Charleston, S.C., gathered one morning last month on Ellis Island for a tour of the ferry operations on the islands and in Battery Park.
 They rode around the harbor on a work boat, and on the trip from the statue back to Ellis Island, the prospective bidders rode Circle Line's oldest boat, built in 1954. Glancing up at the cracked wooden slats holding hundreds of life jackets overhead, one said he would pay no more than $300,000 for that boat.
 But the Park Service has told bidders they would have to buy Circle Line's seven-boat fleet at an estimated cost of more than $18 million. That requirement has diluted the enthusiasm of some bidders.
 ''It's a very hard process because you end up having to buy boats that in our case we don't need,'' said William Wachtel, a lawyer who operates half of the New York Waterway commuter fleet, which uses smaller boats to carry passengers across the Hudson. He said recently that he had not yet committed to making a bid. 
 Mr. Wachtel also happens to hold another key to improving the ferry-to-statue experience. He represents a group that leases Pier A, a decaying Victorian structure at the north edge of Battery Park. The National Park Service wants to move its screening checkpoint to Pier A from the park, but that plan has been held up for years by a legal dispute between Mr. Wachtel's group and the city's Economic Development Corporation, which controls the city-owned pier.
 In what he called a breakthrough last week, Mr. Doctoroff said that Mr. Wachtel had signed an agreement that calls for him to make a deal with the Park Service by April 30 or turn the pier back over to the city to be redeveloped by someone else. 
 Mr. Wachtel welcomed the deadline. ''I'm thrilled because it's either going to get done with us or without us,'' he said.
 Mr. Doctoroff said he was pleased that the request for bids leaves open the possibility that the park agency could let a second contract to ferry visitors to Liberty and Ellis Islands from other points in the city, like the Brooklyn waterfront or Governors Island.
 ''What we want is a unified plan for transportation throughout the harbor,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We are now comfortable that the contract will be limited enough such that it will not in any way restrict our ability to do that.'' 
 But prospective bidders and other observers of the process offer a different view, saying they fear the Park Service would gladly accept 10 more years of service much like the one Circle Line has been providing. The contract projects that the number of visitors will rise by only 3 percent each year. The only additional service it calls for is an alternate cruise that would charge the same fare to circle Liberty and Ellis Islands without dropping off passengers on either island. 
 Mr. Craft of the waterfront alliance said the park agency has failed even to demand that the old Circle Line fleet be replaced with more comfortable, fuel-efficient, less polluting boats.
 ''This is an iconic thing,'' Mr. Craft said. ''Why shouldn't everything involved in this concession be the best that we have to offer and not the same old plain peanut butter on stale white bread that they came up with 20 years ago?''

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Fewer Visitors''The National Park Service is taking bids on a new Liberty Island ferry contract, which city officials hope will improve ferry service to the Statue of Liberty and reverse a recent decline in visitors.2000: 5.5 million2006: 4.2 millionGraph tracks number of visitors to The Statue Of Liberty and Ellis Island from 1991 to 2006.(Source by National Park Service)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FERRIES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); WILDLIFE (63%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Statue of Liberty; Ferries; Finances; Statue of Liberty; Advertising and Marketing; Buses; Outdoor Advertising

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (93%) National Park Service; Circle Line

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (57%) Patrick Mcgeehan; Librado Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Ellis Island; New York City; New York Harbor; Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



149 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Searching, and Finding, in Costly London

BYLINE: By SHELLEY EMLING

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Siri Eklund looked at 54 apartments here before finding one with a perk that she simply could not resist: proximity to Britain's first Whole Foods supermarket, scheduled to open in June.
 ''My friends all laughed that I was the only person in the world who would choose an apartment based on the location of a Whole Foods store,'' said Ms. Eklund, 32, a New Yorker whose home in the Kensington neighborhood is within walking distance of the supermarket's site.
 But actually Ms. Eklund had to consider a little more than grocery shopping when it came to renting her spacious two-bedroom flat in the Observatory Gardens complex just north of Kensington High Street, one of West London's most popular shopping strips. 
 She pays a weekly rent of $:802, or nearly $1,600, for her 900-square-foot home. ''Rent is paid by the week here and not the month,'' said Ms. Eklund, who was transferred to London in December 2005 to become senior brand manager for Moet & Chandon. ''And renters -- not landlords -- have to pay the local property council tax here.'' 
 The monthly rent works out to $:3,208, or $6,309. And the monthly tax adds another $:110, or more than $200, for a total of $:3,318, or $6,525.
 In comparison, rents in New York averaged $3,460 for a two-bedroom apartment in a building without a doorman and $5,346 for a two-bedroom apartment with a doorman, according to January 2007 figures from the Real Estate Group New York. 
 Still, Ms. Eklund's rent seems nearly a bargain considering that London is now the world's most expensive property market. With rents in the central part of the city having climbed 5 percent last year, a penthouse in nearby Knightsbridge might have a weekly rent as high as $:15,000, or $29,000.
 And when it comes to buying, things aren't much better. Buyers pay an average of $5,860 per square foot for luxury housing in Central London, compared with $5,276 per square foot in New York.
 The market is being driven by a variety of factors: generous salaries and bonuses, especially those being paid out by the capital's thriving financial sector; demand from foreign buyers and renters; and a simple lack of supply.
 Yolande Barnes, director of Savills Research in London, said she expected both consumer confidence and appetite to remain high in the coming years.
 She predicts that house prices in Britain will grow by an annual average of 6 percent over the next five years. ''Growth will be even greater than this in the most supply-constrained locations, like London,'' she said.
 The pound is approaching the $2 mark for the first time since 1992; that strength is actually what is keeping Ms. Eklund from buying a home. ''I've got my assets in dollars,'' she said, ''and so I'm waiting to see what the pound will do. Everything costs about twice as much in London, but salaries are only about 20 to 30 percent higher.''
 In addition to establishing rents by the week, property companies in London conduct exhaustive inventories on rented properties that can often take hours, making note of every little scratch on the wall or mark on the carpet before a renter moves in. While the examinations are designed to protect both landlords and renters, ''they wouldn't be so picky in New York,'' Ms. Eklund said.
 During her apartment search, she added, she got ''gazumped.'' In Britain, that is slang for being dumped by a seller or landlord who has agreed to a deal with you but gets a better offer.
 ''I made an offer on the first apartment I wanted and it was accepted,'' she explained, ''and then someone later came in and offered more money and the landlord just took it.'' 
 When Ms. Eklund finally came across the apartment in Observatory Gardens, she had to bid against others, raising her offer three times in the process.
 ''In the end, I had to pay six months' worth of rent in addition to a six-week security deposit in order to finally win the apartment,'' she said. ''It can be very challenging trying to rent in London.''
 Yet she really likes what she found. Foreigners have always been drawn to Kensington -- by its museums, including the Natural History Museum and the Victoria and Albert; by its proximity to Hyde Park; and by the many restaurants and specialty stores lining Kensington High Street.
 Observatory Gardens, which occupies an entire block, is a magnificently renovated Victorian brick terrace that once was home to Sir James South, founder of the Royal Astronomical Society. During World War II the building was seriously damaged when a German bomber crashed nearby and its decline continued as its ownership changed several times in the decades after the war. But these days, from the exterior, it looks just as it did when built more than a century ago. 
 Northacre, a development company, bought the site in 1992. Rather than rebuild -- the norm in London during the 1980s -- it chose to refurbish the facade while creating 53 flats and 74 underground parking spaces behind it.
 ''You won't find any radiators around this apartment like you would normally in London,'' Ms. Eklund said, ''because there's under-floor heating. The apartment really does have everything.''
 The airy open-plan apartment, which has seven large windows in the kitchen and living room, also has 24-hour monitoring. ''If the porter detects too much heat in my kitchen, he'll call up and ask, 'Are you cooking right now?' '' Ms. Eklund said. ''They want to make sure everything is O.K.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Siri Eklund in the spacious two-bedroom flat she rents in Kensington, London. (Photo by Jonathan Player for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



150 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: China Says Rich Countries Should Take Lead on Global Warming

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
China said Tuesday that wealthier countries must take the lead in curbing greenhouse gas emissions and refused to say whether it would agree to any mandatory emissions limits that might hamper its booming economy.
 Jiang Yu, a spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry, said China was willing to contribute to an international effort to combat global warming but placed the primary responsibility on richer, developed nations that have been polluting for much longer.
 ''It must be pointed out that climate change has been caused by the long-term historic emissions of developed countries and their high per capita emissions,'' she said, adding that developed countries have responsibilities for global warming ''that cannot be shirked.'' 
 Ms. Jiang's comments, combined with another briefing on Tuesday by the country's leading climate expert, represented China's first official response to a landmark report issued last week by a United Nations panel of scientists that declared global warming is ''unequivocal'' and warned that immediate action must be taken to prevent harmful consequences.
 China is the world's second largest emitter of the greenhouse gases contributing to climate change, trailing only the United States. Last November, the International Energy Agency in Paris predicted that China would pass the United States in emissions of carbon dioxide in 2009. China had been expected to surpass the United States as late as 2020, but its soaring consumption of coal has rapidly increased the country's emissions.
 China derives nearly 70 percent of its energy from coal-fired power plants, many of them equipped with substandard pollution controls.
 Chinese officials have long noted that China's per capita emissions remain well below the averages in wealthier countries, including the United States. Officials also argue that China remains a developing country without the financial resources or technological prowess to make a rapid shift to cleaner, more expensive energy technology.
 China has not disputed the scientific rationale behind global warming or denied the potential harm it could cause. Later this year, China is expected to release broad policy goals on how it can reduce emissions and respond to global warming. In December, it issued a report warning that climate change posed a serious threat to the country's agricultural output and economy.
 ''The Chinese government is taking climate change extremely seriously,'' Qin Dahe, chief of the China Meteorological Administration, told reporters at the briefing. ''President Hu Jintao has said that climate change is not just an environmental issue but also a development issue, ultimately a development issue.''
 Indeed, even if Chinese leaders acknowledge the problem, they remain resistant to any sweeping measures that could threaten the country's development. Some efforts are already meeting with uneven results.
 Mr. Qin, who served as a co-chairman of the United Nations panel that issued the global warming report last week, noted that China had set an ambitious five-year goal of improving energy efficiency by 20 percent. But last year, the country failed to meet the initial target in that schedule.
 China's standing as both a huge developing country and as one of the world's fastest-growing economies has given it prominence in the global warming debate. Along with India, China is exempt from the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol, the agreement that calls on industrial nations to reduce emissions by 2012. (The United States signed the agreement, but has not ratified it.) 
 Asked if China would agree to mandatory, specific targets to reduce emissions, Mr. Qin did not answer directly.
 ''As a developing country that's growing rapidly and has a big population, to thoroughly transform the energy structure and use clean energy would need a lot of money,'' Mr. Qin said, according to Reuters. 
 Ms. Jiang, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said China recently ordered a shutdown of dirtier coal-fired power plants that emitted 5.4 million tons of sulfur dioxide a year. 
 Meanwhile, China has been experiencing record warm temperatures this winter that scientists attribute at least partly to global warming. Temperatures in Beijing have soared into the 50s in February, a month when the historical average is just below freezing.Brazil's Leader Speaks Out
 RIO DE JANEIRO, Feb. 6 (Reuters) -- The president of Brazil, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, said Tuesday that wealthy countries were responsible for global warming and that they should stop telling Brazil what to do with the Amazon rain forest.
 ''The wealthy countries are very smart, approving protocols, holding big speeches on the need to avoid deforestation, but they already deforested everything,'' Mr. da Silva said during the announcement of a public works project in Rio de Janeiro.
 Mr. da Silva, a former factory worker, said wealthy countries should switch to nonfossil fuels, such as ethanol or biodiesel, an area where Brazil is a pioneer.
 Brazil is the world's largest producer of ethanol, which they derive from sugar cane.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GLOBAL WARMING (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); METEOROLOGY (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%) Weather; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (59%) Jim Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (78%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



151 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Reader Responses

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The following are excerpts of reader responses to David Leonhardt's Feb. 7 column on preschool in Oklahoma:
 My husband and I currently live in the Kendall-Whittier school district, but we live south of the Educare school in a nice little neighborhood with 100 year old homes. We both currently work and have one son who is 3 years old. What was not mentioned in this article were children like our son. Because of our economic status (employed and married -- which was a question I was asked when trying to enroll), my son was not allowed to go to Kendall-Whittier even though we are in the school district. It was very discouraging. I even asked if we could pay to get him into the school. No can do. 
 I'm pleased to see our little people getting the education that they deserve. Any attempt at getting and keeping children interested in school I'm all for, but sometimes the kids in the middle or middle class get forgotten. We cannot afford the schools where we would like to send our children and we are not eligible to send them to the schools you wrote about.
 - Tonya Guinto-Boomershine
 I will write my congressperson to push for preschool education on a national level.
 -- Sydney Eisen
 I loved your story, especially the last line! I have a 2,600-square-foot 4-bedroom home with a pool. The cost? $200,000. 
 -- Ziva Branstetter
 $200,000 in Tulsa buys you much more than a "perfectly nice house", it buys you a very nice house in a very nice neighborhood. 
 -- Larry Nelson
 From our early childhood education program to our Juvenile Justice programs to our Mental Health care for children, we have made enormous strides. We are, of course, better in some areas than in others, but we have been a "state to watch" for several years, as we introduce innovative, evidence based programs. We have been extremely careful to take statistical measures which tell us which programs are most cost effect as well as successful in providing improvements for children, and have been very pleased to find that often, those which are most cost effective, are also the best for children. 
 A further FYI: That $200,000 house in Tulsa is likely to be less than five years old, be around 3000 feet in size, and to be outfitted with amenities like stone countertops and upmarket carpets. A decent, 2000 sq ft house can be had for considerably less. Adequate houses are around $100,000. Of course, our climate leaves something to be desired in deep winter or during the dog days of summer. 
 -- Jan Garvin (past president of the state's Federation of Families for Children's Mental Health) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sidebar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



152 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Drug Treatment Is Cheaper Than Prisons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Spitzer Seeks Way to Find State Prisons He Can Close'' (news article, Feb. 5): 
 Considering the substantial economic and political forces in opposition to closing prisons, Gov. Eliot Spitzer could look in a different direction to rein in high costs.
A substantial number of inmates are locked up for nonviolent, drug-related crimes. They are low-level drug addicts whose behaviors are not considered criminal in many countries. 
 Treating addiction as a mental illness would allow the governor to redefine who is a criminal, enabling us to treat addicts in their community at much less cost.Howard JosepherNew York, Feb. 5, 2007The writer is the founder and executive director of Exponents, a nonprofit organization helping people with drug problems and H.I.V.-AIDS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%) Prisons and Prisoners; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Therapy and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: Exponents (Orgn)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Howard Josepher

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



153 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart and a Union Unite, at Least on Health Policy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
They have established one of the fiercest rivalries in the American economy, attacking one another's organizations through dueling blogs, newspaper advertisements and news conferences. 
 But this morning, in an extraordinary meeting in Washington, the chiefs of Wal-Mart Stores and the Service Employees International Union will stand together and agree on a series of goals for achieving universal health coverage, according to people briefed on the matter.
The two men might even shake hands. 
 The meeting between H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart, and Andrew L. Stern, president of the S.E.I.U., which caps months of secret conversations, could be the beginning, however tentative, of a detente between the nation's largest employer and its labor critics.
 At least on one issue. But the issue -- providing affordable health insurance -- is arguably the biggest facing both Mr. Stern and Mr. Scott. Wal-Mart, which insures fewer than half its workers, has identified health care as potentially the biggest vulnerability to its image and business, and the S.E.I.U., one of the country's biggest unions, has called it the No. 1 priority for its members.
 So during today's meeting, Mr. Stern and Mr. Scott will announce a campaign to seek public acceptance of several principles of health policy. One goal is universal health coverage by a specific date, somewhere around 2012. Another is the idea of shared responsibility, emphasizing that individuals, businesses and government all play roles in financing health care and expanding coverage.
 Executives from AT&T, Intel and several nonprofit organizations will also participate in today's meeting.
 The agreement is unlikely to end the rancor between Wal-Mart and unions, largely because the retailer's fiercest critic is the United Food and Commercial Workers, the union behind WakeUpWalMart.com.
 In a statement, WakeUpWalMart.com divulged last night for the first time that it had met with a Wal-Mart executive in December to discuss the company's health insurance, among other things, but decided the retailer was not serious about significantly improving its benefits. 
 ''No one, in good conscience or without a real commitment from Wal-Mart to make substantive changes,'' the statement said, ''could look the other way and ignore the awful fact that Wal-Mart still fails to provide company health care to over half of its employees.''
 Mr. Stern is likely to keep criticizing Wal-Mart on several fronts, according to people who work with him who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to talk publicly. 
 But the fact that Mr. Scott and Mr. Stern are speaking, let alone agreeing on something, is somewhat surprising. 
 In 2004, Mr. Stern authorized the creation of an S.E.I.U.-backed group, called Wal-Mart Watch, that has relentlessly criticized the retailer, leaked internal company documents to the news media and pressed it to change its labor policies. 
 Mr. Scott, in turn, has lashed out at union-backed critics like the S.E.I.U. and Wal-Mart Watch, calling them special-interest groups spreading misinformation and half-truths about the chain. 
 But in July, the icy relationship between the men began to thaw after Mr. Stern wrote an op-ed article encouraging large corporations to work with unions to create alternatives to the employer-based health coverage system, which he said was collapsing. Mr. Stern sent the article, by certified mail, to hundreds of chief executives seeking their help. 
 Mr. Scott, who has already expanded Wal-Mart's health care benefits, responded, beginning a confidential series of conversations that will culminate in today's news conference. 
 Representatives for both Mr. Stern and Mr. Scott declined to comment last night.
 Harley Shaiken, a professor specializing in labor issues at the University of California, Berkeley, said the meeting represented ''a combination of pragmatism, idealism and desperation on the part of Wal-Mart and S.E.I.U; health care has become a devastating issue for both.''
 But Mr. Shaiken said that with Wal-Mart's reputation for fighting unionization and Mr. Stern's advocacy for the labor movement, the pair are unlikely to become the best of friends. Wal-Mart is not unionized in United States.
 ''Lee Scott is willing to sit in the same room with Andy Stern,'' Mr. Shaiken said, ''he just doesn't want to sit across a bargaining table from Andy Stern.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Organized Labor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); INTEL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (84%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Service Employees International Union

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (79%) H Lee Jr Scott; Andrew L Stern; Michael Barbaro; Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



154 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: MILITARY WANTS MORE CIVILIANS TO HELP IN IRAQ

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Senior military officers, including members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have told President Bush and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates that the new Iraq strategy could fail unless more civilian agencies step forward quickly to carry out plans for reconstruction and political development.
 The complaints reflect fresh tensions between the Pentagon and the State Department over personnel demands that have fallen most heavily on the military. But they also draw on a deeper reservoir of concerns among officers who have warned that a military buildup alone cannot solve Iraq's problems, and who now fear that the military will bear a disproportionate burden if Mr. Bush's strategy falls short.
Among particular complaints, the officers cited a request from the office of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice that military personnel temporarily fill more than one-third of 350 new State Department jobs in Iraq that are to be created under the new strategy. 
 At a Senate hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Gates made clear that he shared the officers' concerns, telling senators, ''If you were troubled by the memo, that was mild compared to my reaction when I saw it.'' 
 To back up his point, Mr. Gates also told senators that Mr. Bush himself had addressed his cabinet at the White House on Monday about the need for civilian agencies to ''step up to the task.''
 At one level, the conflict is a cultural clash between a military that has ordered hundreds of thousands of troops to Iraq in the last four years, and a Foreign Service that offers incentives for civilians to work in war zones but cannot compel diplomats to accept hardship assignments to places like Iraq.
 Under Mr. Bush's strategy, the military is pushing more than 20,000 fresh troops to Baghdad to augment the American military force of about 132,000 already in Iraq. 
 The State Department, leading an interagency effort, has been ordered to expand the provincial reconstruction teams in Baghdad and western Anbar Province to accelerate political and economic development at the local level. 
 Small teams of American personnel are to be placed inside Iraqi ministries to make sure that $10 billion in Iraqi funds committed to the effort are spent, and spent correctly.
 The entire United States Foreign Service numbers only 6,000 people, about the size of a military brigade. 
 In defense of the diplomats' role, David M. Satterfield, the State Department's Iraq coordinator, told Congress in January that the department's task in Iraq amounted to ''the largest presence of the foreign service in any country in the world,'' including more than 140 Foreign Service officers in Baghdad and over 50 more in the existing provincial reconstruction teams. 
 Last month, after Mr. Bush announced his new strategy, Ms. Rice told Congress that the department was ''ready to strengthen, indeed to 'surge,' our civilian efforts.'' 
 But Mr. Gates said Tuesday that Ms. Rice had told him that her department needed six months to locate and prepare civil servants and contractors to send abroad. ''It is illustrative of the difficulty of getting other agencies to provide people on a timely basis,'' Mr. Gates said.
 Members of the Joint Chiefs and commanders in Iraq have been delivering the same message recently to the president and defense secretary about the necessity for other parts of government to join the effort, according to administration and military officials.
 ''The chiefs have made that point, and repeatedly,'' said one senior Bush administration official who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke on condition of anonymity to describe internal discussions among the president, defense secretary, commanders in Iraq and members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
 The officials said the commanders had also been expressing broader frustrations, including that the additional $1 billion in new money for reconstruction requested by the president may not be sufficient. 
 They also fear that additional contractors may not be readily available to assist, and that a large number of jobs that could be performed by civilians -- like engineers, lawyers, veterinarians and accountants -- are still conducted by military personnel at a time when the armed services are stretched thin.
 The mounting tensions between the Pentagon and other departments are in some ways the mirror image of those that roiled the government before the 2003 invasion. Then, State Department officials grumbled that the Pentagon was usurping its role in planning the postwar civilian occupation; today, the military is eager to see others step in. 
 State Department officials say they are using both incentives and subtler pressures to induce employees to go to Iraq.
 But from the standpoint of personal security, taking those jobs -- many of them, by definition, outside the relative safety of the Green Zone -- is widely seen as an unattractive career option.
 Some Foreign Service officers and other civilians in the national security field spoke privately of their frustration at coming under pressure to serve in Iraq, a mission they view as bungled as the Pentagon rebuffed the involvement of experts in other government agencies.
 ''This is not at all a finger-pointing exercise,'' said Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, during his Senate testimony on Tuesday. ''This is about the current status of our government to be able to respond, and it goes to the expeditionary nature or a lack thereof of most other departments in the government, understandably, based on the kind of wars we've faced in the past.''
 General Pace argued that the United States government needed ''to be able to get folks over to be able to help with judiciary systems, be able to help with engineering, be able to help with electricity and the like before a country devolves into a state where the terrorists can find a home.''
 Tasia Scolinos, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said in a statement that the agency ''has devoted substantial resources'' to training the Iraqi police and creating a justice system. She provided a fact sheet that showed that the Justice Department had 200 employees and contractors in Iraq as of last August. 
 ''We are committed to working closely with the Defense Department and our law enforcement counterparts in Iraq to assess how we can best continue to support the reconstruction efforts in Iraq,'' she said.
 As evidence of the importance of civilian reconstruction, military officers involved in the internal debate are citing a recent classified study, conducted by the Joint Warfare Analysis Center of the Defense Department, based in Dahlgren, Va., that suggests violence in Baghdad drops significantly when the quality of life improves for Iraqi citizens.
 Relying on surveys and other data on those wounded and killed in the violence as compiled by the military, the study found that a 2 percent increase in job satisfaction among Iraqis in Baghdad correlated to a 30 percent decline in attacks on allied forces and a 17 percent decrease in civilian deaths from sectarian violence.
 The study did not examine the security benefits of adding troops to Iraq or compare it to the nonmilitary portions of the new strategy, according to those who have been briefed on the classified document. 
 But its emphasis on the importance of reconstruction is being cited by senior military officers and Pentagon officials as more evidence that Congress and the government's other civilian departments must devote more money and personnel to nonmilitary efforts at improving the economy, industry, agriculture, financial oversight of government spending and the rule of law.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''This is not at all a finger-pointing exercise,'' Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, said yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A7)Chart: ''Civil and Military Costs''Estimated appropriations provided for U.S. operations in Iraq.Graphs track diplomatic operations and foreign aid and Military operations and other defense activities since 2003.(Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) State Department; United States Foreign Service

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%) Peter (Gen) Pace; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Robert M (Sec) Gates; George W (Pres) Bush; Thom Shanker; David S Cloud

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



155 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: The Bush Budget: Misplaced Priorities

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Other Defense Budget'' (editorial, Feb. 6): 
 Spending on weapons rose nearly 20 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, and President Bush's 2008 budget demands even more money for exorbitantly priced and poorly performing weapons systems like the Air Force's F-22 stealth fighter and the Virginia-class attack submarine. 
But isn't it time to provide a strong foundation for growth for the American people -- not just for defense contractors?
 Unfortunately for the American public, the President's 2008 budget continues to sacrifice Social Security benefits for the extraordinarily expensive illusion of ''national security.''
 Congress should act on the growing national consensus demanding sensible budget priorities and block the administration's attempts to defund important programs.Ben Cohen New York, Feb. 6, 2007The writer, a co-founder of Ben & Jerry's and the founder of TrueMajority, is president of Business Leaders for Sensible Priorities.To the Editor:
 President Bush proposes a budget that he says ''can be balanced in five years'' (''Bush Releases Budget as Plan to Erase Deficit,'' front page, Feb. 6). This and similar promises are meaningless.
 There is no way of telling what will happen in five years: there will be a different administration, a different economy, a different global situation. 
 What would be meaningful is to set goals that are attainable during the tenure of the one who makes the promises and who therefore has control over the results.Peter R. LantosErdenheim, Pa., Feb. 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (58%); BUSINESS LEADERS FOR SENSIBLE PRIORITIES (55%) TrueMajority (Orgn)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Ben Cohen; Peter R Lantos; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



156 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Suggests How to Narrow Wage Gap

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Bolstering education and training, rather than erecting trade barriers, would help narrow the economic gap between low- and high-income workers, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Tuesday. 
 In his most extensive remarks to date on economic inequality, Mr. Bernanke also issued a fresh warning for the United States to steer away from policies that seek to erect protectionist barriers to trade and investment opportunities. Such a course, he cautioned, ''would do far more harm than good.''
Democrats, who have sought to portray the Bush administration's economic policies as mainly benefiting the wealthy, have made alleviating widening economic inequality in the United States a priority. President Bush, in recent speeches, has tried to calm those who worry about their job and economic security in a constantly changing economy.
 Mr. Bernanke said disparities in education and training were ''likely the single greatest source of the long-term increase in inequality.''
 Thus, ''policies that boost our national investment in education and training can help reduce inequality while expanding economic opportunity,'' he said.
 His speech, prepared for delivery Tuesday to the Omaha Chamber of Commerce, was made available in Washington.
 Mr. Bernanke's remarks underscored the economic disparity among workers that has widened over the decades.
 In 1979, a full-time worker close to the top of the range of wage earners in the United States earned about 3.7 times what a full-time worker near the bottom of the range did. Reflecting the relatively fast growth of wages of higher-paid workers, workers near the top of the wage range today earn about 4.7 times much as those near the bottom, Mr. Bernanke said.
 Mr. Bernanke did not offer specific policy solutions. 
 Trade tensions, especially with rapidly growing China, have led some Democrats and Republicans in Congress to advocate policies that, among other things, would impose hefty tariffs on goods imported from China.
 Democrats and other critics, meanwhile, blame the Bush administration's free trade policies for the United States' record-high trade deficits and the loss of American factory jobs.
 But Mr. Bernanke said that the influence of globalization on inequality ''has been moderate and almost surely less important than the effect of skill-biased technological change.''
 In his speech, Mr. Bernanke did not discuss the future course of interest rates. The Federal Reserve last week left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, and many economists say they believe that the Fed will leave rates where they are for much of this year. Mr. Bernanke will go to Capitol Hill next week to deliver the Fed's report on the economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said yesterday that inadequate investment in education is the major cause of income disparity. (Photo by Chris Machian/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Labor; Education and Schools; Vocational Training; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market; Protectionism (Trade)

COMPANY: THUS GROUP PLC (THUSPLC) (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



157 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
BIDDING FOR OFFICE LANDLORD -- The feverish competition over Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest office landlord, appeared to be nearing an end, with shareholders to vote on the best offer today. [C1.] JOBS URGES UNFETTERED MUSIC -- Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, jolted the record industry by calling on its largest companies to allow online music sales unfettered by antipiracy software. [C1.] WAL-MART and UNION AGREE -- In an extraordinary meeting in Washington, the chiefs of Wal-Mart Stores and the Service Employees International Union will stand together today and agree on a series of goals for achieving universal health coverage, according to people briefed on the matter. [C2.] PROSECUTORS DEMAND RECORDS -- Federal prosecutors have subpoenaed records of Allied Capital, a business development company, in an effort to discover how private investigators it hired may have obtained the phone records of one of its leading critics.[C1.] G.E. MAPS ITS FUTURE -- Jeffrey R. Immelt, chairman of General Electric, has designated some fields as promising areas for the company, and jettisoned some others seen as slow-growers. 
Among the winners: clinical diagnosis, security, energy services and ''green'' products. [C1.] HOLLYWOOD IN WASHINGTON -- The Motion Picture Association of America came to Washington to press its agenda of fighting piracy, obtaining new tax advantages and reining in runaway movie and television production. Armed with some A-list talent, like the actor Will Smith, above, the group said that film and TV production accounts for $30 billion in wages.[C3.] SAMSUNG TO PAY $90 MILLION -- Samsung Electronics of South Korea agreed to pay $90 million to settle civil charges that it conspired with six other makers of computer chips to fix prices, the attorneys general of 41 states announced. [C8.] TAURUS BACK ON THE ROAD -- The Ford Taurus, the onetime best-selling car line that was retired last year because of dwindling sales, is coming back to life as the new nameplate on the slow-selling Ford Five Hundred sedan. [C4.]TOYOTA'S PROFIT POINTS THE WAY -- Another quarter of record profits and sales by Toyota Motor painted a picture of a company whose momentum is pushing it relentlessly closer to becoming the No. 1 global auto company, analysts said. [C4.] THE BIGGER-IS-BETTER APPROACH -- Toyota is promoting its new full-size Tundra pickup by projecting an image of itself that Americans have not seen before from the automaker -- one built on horsepower and ''my brakes are bigger than yours'' machismo. Advertising. [C4.] HIGH DEMAND HELPS CISCO -- The Internet equipment maker Cisco Systems reported a 36 percent jump in profit in its second fiscal quarter, benefiting from growing demand for bigger, faster networks that can handle video. The news bolstered Wall Street confidence that the company, a highflier in the 1990s, was again enjoying steady growth. [C3.] BERNANKE'S SOLUTION TO WAGE GAP -- Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that bolstering education and training, rather than erecting trade barriers would help narrow the economic gap between low- and high-income workers [C13.]MORTGAGE INSURER BUYS RIVAL -- A mortgage insurance provider, the MGIC Investment Corporation, has agreed to buy a rival, the Radian Group, for $4.9 billion in stock to form a combined company with total assets of nearly $15 billion.[C4.] CHINA DEFERS ON EMISSION LIMITS -- China said that wealthier countries must take the lead in curbing greenhouse gas emissions and refused to say whether it would agree to any emissions limits that might hamper its booming economy. [A9.] LET'S GO (GERM-FREE) SHOPPING -- Arkansas is poised to become the first state in the nation to officially encourage grocery stores to offer sanitary wipes to customers who use shopping carts. [A11.] PUBLIC BROADCASTING, IN SPANISH -- Public broadcasting executives are expected to announce a new Spanish-language network that will go on the air on March 5 in American cities with large Latino populations. [E1.]EX-HEAD OF AIRLINE DIES -- M. Lamar Muse, the first president of Southwest Airlines, who took the job when the airline had no planes, tens of thousands of dollars of debt and about $100 in the bank, died Monday in Dallas. He was 86. [A16.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices of Cisco Systems for the week, as of 6:20 p.m. yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); FILM (87%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (86%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (79%); SUBPOENAS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); RECORD REVENUES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RECORD INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); SEDANS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (65%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (61%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%); MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); TYT (LSE) (65%); TM (NYSE) (65%); 7203 (TSE) (65%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (61%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); SMSN (LSE) (56%); 005930 (KSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (88%); WILL SMITH (57%); JEFFREY IMMELT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



158 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Takes Its Concerns About Piracy and Taxes to Washington

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6 

 BODY:
Hollywood has often been a whipping boy here, but with a new Congress in session, the heads of the major movie studios converged on the capital Tuesday to pitch their industry in the unaccustomed role of good guy: boon to the trade balance, engine of economic growth, polisher of the nation's image and employer of a big, uncelebrated, middle-class work force.
 Cheered by the Democratic takeover, the industry's leadership hopes to press its agenda of fighting piracy, obtaining new tax advantages and reining in movie and television production from going abroad. 
So the Motion Picture Association of America put on a daylong show for lawmakers, lobbyists and Capitol Hill aides, armed with some A-list talent -- the actor Will Smith gave a morning speech, and Clint Eastwood received an award at dinner -- and a new study showing that film and TV production accounts for $30 billion in wages, $10 billion in taxes, more than 400,000 jobs and a trade surplus of $9.5 billion.
 ''When people read about us, they read about celebrity and glitz,'' said Dan Glickman, the trade association's chairman, who said he learned much about other industries from such programs while he was a congressman. ''That's an asset we have, but that's not enough.''
 Judging from a few panel discussions, the M.P.A.A. had calculated that it would be hard to drum up sympathy for an industry symbolized by its highly paid stars and largely made up of giant conglomerates. So, atop the talking points, apparently, was the idea that the movie business is really made up of middle-class guild and union members who often live hand to mouth.
 ''It's not just me and Tom,'' said Mr. Smith, referring to Tom Cruise, one of his peers who can command $20 million a picture. He said his latest film, ''I Am Legend,'' was employing 1,000 local crew members and actors on location in New York.
 The director Paris Barclay told of trying to hire one of his favorite technicians recently, and learning that the man had moved his wife and three children to Vancouver, because that is where the work is.
 And Taylor Hackford, the director of ''Ray,'' in establishing his credentials, added: ''I'm working class.''
 The conversation often turned to piracy, the existential issue that dominates the association's agenda. Mr. Hackford, who spent more than a decade developing ''Ray,'' told of finding a bootleg DVD of the movie on the day of its theatrical release, and said 42 million illicit copies were sold within five months. 
 That meant millions of dollars in lost revenue -- ''and DVDs is how people get their money back,'' he said of movie financiers. ''If they don't, will I be able to sell a hard-to-sell picture like 'Ray'? No.''
 In a rare moment of newsmaking, Barry M. Meyer, the chairman of Warner Brothers, issued a sharp rebuke to the president of the Consumer Electronics Association, Gary Shapiro, who warned in January that antipiracy efforts could ''smother'' technological progress and said that ''private conduct may be unauthorized, but that does not mean it is piracy.''
 Mr. Meyer took issue with calling the theft of intellectual property merely unauthorized rather than illegal, and said that Hollywood's promotion of so-called digital rights management technology had made it possible for consumers to rent or buy movies and TV programs at a variety of prices. 
 ''It's easy to demonize it, but without some level of control and order, things don't work,'' he said. ''The only choice we're not offering is free.''
 He added: ''Unlike the technology industry, which can outrun pirates by upgrading their product, there is no 'Gone With the Wind 2.0.' ''
 Mr. Glickman took Mr. Meyer and some of his peers -- Brad Grey of Paramount and Michael Lynton of Sony Pictures -- to the capital for meetings with the new Senate leader, Harry Reid of Nevada; Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader; and Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi; Mr. Hoyer; Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut; and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York attended an evening reception.
 Almost no mention was made of the M.P.A.A.'s movie rating system, which Mr. Glickman recently tweaked. And it was not a Republican, but Senator Dianne Feinstein of California who, departing from a paean to everything else the movie industry stands for, called for the studio chiefs in the room to cut down on gratuitous sex and violence.
 More typical of the day, however, was Representative Charles Rangel, the new Ways and Means chairman, promising to press the Bush administration to take a tougher line in trade talks with Russia, China and other countries concerning rampant piracy or barriers to Hollywood movies.
 And then there was Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, vowing to press the Justice Department to do more about piracy -- moments before rushing over to the actor James Cromwell and complimenting his performance as Prince Philip in ''The Queen.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry M. Meyer, chairman of Warner Brothers, left, and Brad Grey, chairman of Paramount, standing, talked with Senator Patrick J. Leahy yesterday at a luncheon where Hollywood and Washington mingled. (Photo by Andrew Cutraro for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); LOBBYING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CELEBRITIES (79%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TAX RELIEF (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); COUNTERFEITING (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (59%) Motion Pictures; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Copyrights; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; International Trade and World Market; Television; Production; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Motion Pictures; Counterfeit Merchandise; Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%) Motion Picture Assn of America; Warner Brothers ; Consumer Electronics Assn; Justice Department

PERSON: WILL SMITH (79%); CLINT EASTWOOD (74%); TOM CRUISE (59%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) David M Halbfinger; Barry M Meyer; Gary Shapiro; Charles B (Rep) Rangel; George W (Pres) Bush; Patrick J (Sen) Leahy; Will Smith; Clint Eastwood

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (52%) Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007



159 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: 'We're Not Dating': A Morning Show With Sex on the Brain

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
He's smarmy. She's contrived. He leers at girls like an old stage ham. She talks about freezing her eggs and getting her breasts done. Together they're Mike Jerrick and Juliet Huddy, Fox's new morning pair, who use their unholy chemistry to pervert the breakfast hour on ''The Morning Show With Mike and Juliet.'' We owe these two a warm, warm welcome. 
 We know what morning shows look like on the networks accused by conservatives of liberal bias, but a morning show produced by Fox is more mysterious. Will it just be a last stop for ''American Idol'' rejects? Can we expect hair-care demos from Hannity and Colmes? 
Surprise. In its more than three weeks on the air, ''The Morning Show'' has opted, above all, for creepy prurience. 
 There was Ms. Huddy babbling about her father's fixation on the ''Idol'' singer Katharine McPhee, and Mr. Jerrick implying the obsession was illegal. There was Mr. Jerrick flashing his own deck of 52 illegal desires. Not to be outdone Ms. Huddy billboarded her lust for under-age men. 
 Each makes innuendos about the other's sex life and off-camera carousing, and in every episode they come across as teenagers or freshly divorced 40-somethings after their first Long Island iced teas. In the spirit of Valerie Cherish of ''The Comeback,'' I reflexively thought at first, ''I don't want to see that.'' Especially not in the morning. 
 But as I watched more and more ''Morning Shows,'' which meant missing Hour 12 or whatever of ''Today'' and the whole hour of ''Live With Regis and Kelly,'' I began to doubt not my initial conviction but my mental autonomy: Have I been conditioned not to want to hear gruesome double entendres with my toast? 
 What is it about the hours before 10 a.m. that make a person want nothing but news, traffic, family values and sanctimony? And, really, what has brainwashed us into thinking we need our homeroom teachers married? 
 The openly single hosts of ''The Morning Show'' are far and away the program's stand-out feature. Certainly no one will tune in for the brown and off-brown set, brightened by some o'er-the-river-and-through-the-woods Currier and Ives window backdrop, which makes no sense at all. (In summer can we expect to glimpse children at the swimmin' hole?) 
 The roster of guests is thick with also-rans: punch lines in celebrity divorces, including Chad Lowe and Kimora Lee Simmons, and ''Idol'' runners-up, including Ms. McPhee and Diane DeGarmo. Experts come on to talk about how old mascara can blind you, Internet dating, clipping coupons and other kill-me-now subjects.
 The only happy novelty of ''The Morning Show'' is the singleness of the hosts. It's a chintzy novelty, like a Valentine's Day keychain, but it's the thought that counts. Mr. Jerrick, who looks a little like William H. Macy, is divorced, with two children. He purports to adore women and strenuously advertises his libido, but evidently he has no girlfriend. 
 And Ms. Huddy -- who has a retro look, like an air hostess on a Scandinavian carrier -- well, on her Web bio she writes ''sniff'' when she considers how she lacks a husband, and then goes on to suggest that Mr. Jerrick would make a great boyfriend. Apparently he doesn't like her in that way. 
 ''We're not dating,'' Ms. Huddy informed audiences yesterday. Again.
 No simmering ''Moonlighting'' romance seems apparent on the set, though producers should keep hoping. That would be a morning show first. And with all the sex talk, the avuncular (or avauntular?) dynamic of Regis Philbin-Kelly Ripa and Meredith Vieira-Matt Lauer is also absent. 
 So what is the relationship Mr. Jerrick and Ms. Huddy are performing? I argue this: They are playing an older man who, because he loves the ladies too much or not enough, shuns long-term relationships, and an attractive over-30 woman who has pursued her career rather than marrying and regrets it. 
 This is a kind of marvelous city duo -- and a nice breakthrough for morning shows. No giggly hot mom like Kelly Ripa; no model of rectitude and self-sacrifice like Ms. Vieira. And no good old Reege. Or good young Matt. 
 Instead they're a little sleazy, Mike and Juliet. And a little lonely. Morning shows have long been seen as having two audiences: busy, important people on their way to work, who want to know news, traffic and weather, and stay-at-home mothers and housewives, who like mellower segments about relationships and household economy. 
 Mike and Juliet suggest that morning shows, at least those that start at 9, might have another audience: single people who have been out late, talking about ''American Idol'' and drinking, even, only to wake up alone, in no important rush to get anywhere. That's probably a lot of us. And we have mornings too.The Morning Show With Mike and JulietFox (and other stations), weekday mornings; check local listings.Tom Mazzarelli, executive producer; Terence Noonan, Patricia Ciano, co-executive producers; Rob George, director; Mike Jerrick and Juliet Huddy, hosts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Morning Show With Mike and Juliet -- Mike Jerrick and Juliet Huddy are hosts of this weekday morning show. (Photo by Michael Simon/Fox)(pg. E1)
 New morning: The ''American Idol'' singer Katharine McPhee, left, with the openly single hosts Juliet Huddy and Mike Jerrick. (Photo by Fox)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERAL MEDIA (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); FAMILY (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%) Television; Reviews

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (56%) Virginia Heffernan; Mike Jerrick; Juliet Huddy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



160 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Circuits; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: If Leonardo Had Made Toys

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
LEONARDO DA VINCI'S 15th-century vision of mechanical flight apparently never included fixed wings assisted by propellers or jet engines. His chief inspiration was birds, reflected in drawings of a flying machine fashioned to stay aloft by flapping its wings.
 More than 500 years later, WowWee, a robotics and entertainment products company, shares that vision. Next month, it plans to release a mass-produced, functional ornithopter, a device that flies in birdlike fashion -- in this case, a radio-controlled toy that mechanically flaps its Mylar wings.
The inspiration -- besides Leonardo's work -- is an insect, said Sean Frawley, the 22-year-old inventor of the toy, the FlyTech Dragonfly. 
 ''People have been experimenting all around the world with these kinds of things,'' Mr. Frawley, an aerospace engineering graduate of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Fla., and project manager for WowWee, said in a telephone interview from the company's office in Hong Kong. 
 During demonstration flights of the Dragonfly last month at the Consumer Electronics Show, the annual technology showcase in Las Vegas, the fluttering, footlong bug was an enormous hit. Throngs of onlookers clamored for a chance to buy the $50 toy on the spot. At the time, none were for sale.
 The robotic Dragonfly will take flight again at the American International Toy Fair, the largest toy trade show in the Western Hemisphere, which begins Sunday in New York. But it will hardly be alone there in its use of technologies that are giving a new generation of toys extraordinary capabilities to fly, float, walk and roll -- almost always inexpensively -- in ways unimaginable just a few years ago.
 ''Is there a revolution?'' asked Gene Khasminsky, the design director for Interactive Toy Concepts, the Canadian maker of the Micro Mosquito, a palm-size, radio-controlled helicopter that was in demand among holiday shoppers at about $70. 
 ''I think, right now, that there is a push back from our industry to get kids off the couch where they're playing video games,'' Mr. Khasminsky said in a telephone interview from his office in Toronto. ''We're moving into an age where toys are becoming more high-tech to stay competitive with gaming.''
 He suggested that navigating well-designed vehicles in the physical world -- like the company's inventory of remote-controlled helicopters, planes and helium blimps -- is vastly more compelling than steering a virtual vehicle in a computer-generated universe.
 Executives at Mattel, which owns Tyco, are placing their bets on a new kind of radio-controlled three-wheeled vehicle it is calling the Tyco R/C Terrainiac. Scheduled to go on sale in the summer for about $80, the Terrainiac is a futuristic-looking vehicle powered by a single rear wheel that is a complex treaded ball, referred to by its makers as a ''sphere drive.''
 The body of the vehicle has been engineered with a controllable joint that allows the Terrainiac to pivot or twist like a human torso. The results are radical turns at high speeds as its high-torque electric motor drives the vehicle over practically any sort of terrain; thus its name.
 But George Benz, director of marketing for Tyco Radio Control, said the toy will not be limited to solid surfaces. The sphere drive is hollow, helping to provide buoyancy as well as locomotion when the Terrainiac takes to the water.
 ''The tricky part of development is making these toys have tremendous performance on land and really deliver when it gets wet,'' he said.
 WowWee, whose previous creations include the robotic toy Robosapien, is also working on a radio-controlled vehicle for release this year that walks on four spidery, multijointed legs. It is called Roboquad and is expected to cost $100. 
 And Wild Planet Entertainment, which makes a line of ''spy toys for any mission'' under the rubric Spy Gear, had added a surveillance wrinkle to a rather conventional remote-controlled vehicle. Its Spy Video Car, which sells for $140, has a front-mounted camera that wirelessly transmits a live video image that can be viewed in an eyepiece.
 ''A separate transmitter in the car transmits the video over a 2.4 megahertz frequency like a wireless phone uses,'' said Shannon Bruzelius, the product integrity engineer at Wild Planet, which operates research and development centers in San Francisco and Hong Kong.
 He said the company plans to add a $15 Mobile Spy Ear vehicle (not remotely controlled) equipped with a microphone and an amplifier that can wirelessly beam sounds up to 75 feet to an earbud the user wears.
 But of all the innovations brimming in toy vehicles these days, the most startling have been reserved for those that achieve flight.
 Late last year, Jakks Pacific, a toymaker in Malibu, Calif., released a lightweight radio-controlled flying wing called the XPV, or Xtreme Performance Vehicle, which sells for $60. Once its onboard battery is fully charged, the twin-propeller craft can soar as high as a 20-story building. 
 ''As technology progresses, the performance of the electronics improves so much that, in a sense, you get more horsepower,'' Michael Bernstein, vice president for boys marketing at Jakks Pacific, said in a telephone interview this week. 
 That ''horsepower,'' Mr. Bernstein said, is getting cheaper, freeing designers to reach higher and enabling toymakers to deliver more affordable mass-market products -- more RadioShack than Sharper Image. The company plans to unveil more high-performance vehicles under the XPV banner at the toy fair.
 Radio-controlled flight was long the expensive purview of hobbyists and model-making enthusiasts, Mr. Khasminsky of Interactive Toy Concepts said. But microelectric motors have become plentiful and relatively inexpensive. 
 Economies of scale are making once-exotic materials like sturdy and lightweight carbon-fiber cheaper, and newer materials, like EPP foam (expanded polypropylene, which looks and feels like a more resilient Styrofoam) are available, helping achieve sustained flight. 
 HobbyTron.com, based in Orem, Utah, makes a 6-inch-long, $40 infrared-controlled helicopter, the Picco Z, in which its entire body is made from EPP foam.
 At the same time, microprocessors continue to integrate more functions onto single chips, increasing their overall computing power while the chips become lighter and cheaper, toymakers say.
 Caleb Chung, the inventor of the 1990s toy hit Furby and a co-founder of Ugobe, a builder of lifelike robotic creatures, said: ''The price of processing power has dropped to the floor. I can buy the equivalent of an Apple II processor for a dime.''
 At such prices, Mr. Chung said he can use cheaper motors in his Pleo baby dinosaur because he is confident that the $300 robotic reptile's processors will help regulate those motors to ensure smooth, organic and even ''emotive'' movements when it is released this summer.
 But one of the greatest boons to flight has been new battery technology, said Mr. Frawley, the Dragonfly creator. He said lithium-polymer batteries, the same malleable lightweight rechargeable power source in Apple's iPod Nano, had freed flying toys from heavy, bulky batteries and their metal cases.
 Mr. Frawley said the lithium-polymer battery in his Dragonfly weighs no more than a penny and can deliver up to 10 minutes of flight after about a 20-minute charge.
 Yet he noted that the Dragonfly's predecessor, a kit he designed and sold as a teenager along with a friend, was more energy-efficient.
 It was powered by rubber bands.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A few examples of toys that fly and perform in ways unimaginable just a few years ago, clockwise from above left: the XPV, or Xtreme Performance Vehicle, from Jakks Pacific
the Spy Video Car, from Wild Planet Entertainment
the FlyTech Dragonfly, from WowWee
 and the Picco Z, from HobbyTron.com. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (77%); ROBOTICS (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); HELICOPTERS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (69%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Toys; Computers and the Internet; Trade Shows and Fairs; American International Toy Fair; Children and Youth

COMPANY: EMBRY-RIDDLE AERONAUTICAL UNIVERSITY (69%)

PERSON: Michel Marriott

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (71%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (71%); HONG KONG (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



161 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Up in Quarter; Pace Slowed In All of 2006

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Productivity grew at a healthy 3 percent annual rate in the final quarter, although for all of 2006, this crucial measure of economic vitality expanded at the slowest pace in nine years. 
 Productivity, the amount of output for an hour of work, rose by 2.1 percent for all of 2006, down slightly from a 2.3 percent increase in 2005.
It was the slowest pace since a 1.6 percent gain in 1997, according to figures released Wednesday by the Labor Department. But the 3 percent annual growth rate in the last three months of 2006 was nearly double what economists were expecting.
 Labor costs for each unit of output rose 3.2 percent for all of 2006, up from a 2 percent increase in 2005 and the fastest rise in worker wages and benefits since a 4.2 percent increase in 2000.
 For the fourth quarter, wage pressures eased a bit, rising by just 1.7 percent, a better outcome than analysts had been expecting after a 3.2 percent rate of increase in the third quarter.
 While rising wages are good for workers, the concern is that if those increases outstrip gains in productivity, businesses will start raising the price of their products, setting off a classic wage-price spiral.
 The Federal Reserve is keeping watch for any signs that slowing productivity and rising wage pressures are having an adverse impact on inflation. The hope is that businesses will meet worker wage demands by trimming their profits rather than increasing the cost of their goods.
 Currently, inflation has been tame, with underlying inflation pressures starting to recede after last year's surge in energy prices. Many economists say they believe that as long as the spike in energy prices does not spread to wage demands, the Fed will be content to remain on the sidelines, as it did last week when it left rates unchanged.
 Productivity growth lagged for more than two decades as the country struggled to cope with a series of oil price shocks in the 1970s. However, beginning in the mid-1990s, productivity started to improve drastically as the cumulative impact of high-tech tools like computers began to enhance worker efficiency.
 But after hitting a gain of 4.1 percent in 2002, the rate of productivity gains has been slowly declining. Still, the 2.1 percent rise last year was nearly a full percentage point above the average annual gains from 1973 through 1993.
 Separately Wednesday, the Federal Reserve reported that consumers increased their borrowing at a more modest pace in December. Consumer credit rose at a 3 percent annual rate that month, the smallest gain since October and far below the 6.9 percent surge in borrowing in November.
 The increased borrowing pushed total consumer debt up by $6 billion in December, to a record $2.4 trillion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (86%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%) United States Economy; Productivity; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Consumer Credit; Credit; Records and Achievements; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



162 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Waiting List Gone, Incentives Are Coming for Prius

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Toyota has hardly needed to do anything to sell its hybrid-electric Prius, which always had more buyers than Toyota had cars, but sales have flattened just as the carmaker is able to produce more Priuses.
 So, in April, Toyota will begin its first national advertising campaign for Prius since it began selling the hybrid in the United States in 2000. Ads will begin appearing in local markets before then.
Toyota has also started offering the first incentives on the Prius, including some no-interest financing, and lease deals of as little as $219 a month. 
 The moves by Toyota come amid flat sales last year for Prius, whose first six years in the American market were a carmaker's dream. Dealers had waiting lists of as long as a year for Prius, which runs on a combination of an electric motor and a gasoline engine. Buyers routinely paid several thousand dollars more than the $22,175 sticker price.
 Last October, after gasoline prices spiked above $3 a gallon, Toyota had only a three-hour inventory of Prius cars, said James D. Farley, Toyota vice president for North American marketing. It sold 106,971 Prius cars in the United States last year, out of about 280,000 Prius cars sold worldwide.
 But as gas prices dropped, Prius inventories climbed to a 30-day supply in January. The situation is of particular concern now that Toyota can build more Priuses, which had been produced in limited numbers in Japan. Speaking at the Chicago Auto Show, Mr. Farley said Toyota might be able to get as many as 170,000 Priuses to sell in the United States this year, a potential increase of 70 percent.
 But to reach that level, Toyota needs to do more to generate demand. ''This is the challenge that keeps me up at night about Prius,'' Mr. Farley said.
 Larry Burns, General Motors vice president for research and development and strategic planning, said he understood Mr. Farley's concern. ''At the end of the day, you have to have a technology that excites the customer, and you have to have the volume,'' Mr. Burns said in an interview here.
 Toyota has chosen a two-pronged approach that focuses on advertising and dealer training, Mr. Farley said. 
 The company has been frustrated by customers who say they are interested in the Prius, but back away from buying at the last minute. Some buyers are confused about its hybrid technology, he said, while others fear that its battery might run dry and leave them stranded.
 Still others worry that they will not save enough on gasoline purchases to make a Prius worthwhile. 
 That may be an even bigger worry by the end of the year, when new government fuel economy ratings will be published. The Environmental Protection Agency's mileage ratings for all cars have been recalculated to reflect a variety of driving conditions. Ratings on many vehicles are set to fall by about 10 to 25 percent, while those for hybrid electric vehicles will drop most, by about 30 percent.
 The fuel economy of the Prius, now rated at about 60 miles per gallon in city driving, will fall into the range of the mid-40 miles per gallon.
 Toyota also wants to combat buyers' perceptions that Priuses are hard to get. ''Customers have told us: I didn't know I could get my color. I thought I might have to wait three months for it,'' Mr. Farley said.
 He said Toyota, for all its concerns about the Prius, did not fear losing buyers to a competitor. Sixty percent of Prius shoppers say they have no second choice, Mr. Farley said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Toyota sold 106,971 Prius cars, which run on a combination of an electric motor and a gasoline engine, in the United States last year. (Photo by Toyota Motor, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (50%) Automobiles; Advertising and Marketing; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Renting and Leasing; Sales

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



163 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Scope of Hospital Cuts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 We should not consider the impact of cuts to teaching hospitals in New York City to be primarily local (''Bush's and Spitzer's Budgets Hit New York Hospitals Hard,'' news article, Feb. 6). Large medical centers are often the sites where the gravest and newest illnesses are treated. 
Patients may come from far away, and what is learned from these illnesses is translated to the care of patients in all parts of the world.
 It is necessary to have an established infrastructure of well-trained personnel, sophisticated laboratories and the flexibility of an academic environment to respond in a meaningful way to emerging problems. 
 If the AIDS epidemic had not developed in the major medical centers of New York City and California, the drugs that have transformed the disease worldwide would have surely taken longer to be developed.
 Especially with a strong economy and private-sector profits growing, it appears shortsighted to damage a center of learning developed over many decades.Regina LinderNew York, Feb. 6, 2007The writer is a professor and director of the Medical Laboratory Sciences Program at Hunter College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AIDS & HIV (71%); EPIDEMICS (71%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Regina Linder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; United States; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



164 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: North Korea And Others Set to Resume Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Negotiators on Thursday will resume the long-stalled talks aimed at North Korean nuclear disarmament amid tentative signs of a possible breakthrough in a diplomatic process that seemed shattered four months ago when North Korea tested a nuclear device. 
 Christopher R. Hill, the chief American envoy, arrived in Beijing on Wednesday and held separate meetings with Chinese and Russian diplomats. Mr. Hill has been shuttling around the world, meeting with envoys from North Korea and other countries, in an effort to restart and advance the talks that North Korea abandoned more than a year ago. 
 ''We all share ambitions for this round,'' Mr. Hill told reporters as he arrived at his hotel on Wednesday evening. ''We want to make a good start, a good step forward.''
 Mr. Hill is essentially trying to return the process to September 2005, when North Korea agreed in a broad draft accord to end its nuclear arms program in return for security, economic and energy benefits. Even then, analysts said the differences between the United States and North Korea made a final agreement far from certain. Subsequent talks on carrying out the provisions broke down, and North Korea then defied international warnings by testing a nuclear device last October. 
 In a brief appearance earlier Wednesday at the Beijing airport, Mr. Hill was careful not to set expectations too high for this week. ''I want to emphasize that the real success is when we complete the September '05 agreement,'' he said. ''Not just when we start the '05 agreement, but when we finish it. So we're not going to finish that this week.''
 ''We'll just maybe take a good first step,'' he said. 
 The talks -- which involve China, Russia, Japan, South Korea, the United States and North Korea -- began more than three years ago and have brought scarce tangible progress after various rounds in Beijing. Formal talks will resume Thursday afternoon in a government guesthouse in Beijing and are likely to continue into the weekend.
 Recently, North Korea has seemed to signal more of a willingness to bargain and to specify its demands. Last weekend, two American envoys returning from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, said the nation was prepared to disable its main nuclear reactor in Yongbyon in exchange for an energy package of electricity and oil from its neighbors. North Korea also told the envoys that it wanted the United States to lift financial sanctions and remove it from a list of states that sponsored terrorism.
 The two envoys, Joel S. Wit, a Clinton administration official involved in North Korea issues, and David Albright, a nuclear specialist, first described the North Korean position to the Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun, while passing through the Beijing airport last Saturday.
 Mr. Hill, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, has spent much of 2007 traveling to build a consensus on a deal. Last month, he and the top North Korean envoy, Kim Kye-gwan, met in Berlin, the first such meetings between the United States and North Korea outside Beijing. Mr. Hill described those talks as ''substantive'' and has expressed guarded optimism throughout his travels.
 A potential sticking point for North Korea is how much ground the United States will give on financial sanctions. In 2005, the United States accused Banco Delta Asia in Macao, a Chinese territory, of laundering counterfeit dollars that it said North Korea was using to finance drug trafficking and other illegal activities. The United States froze $24 million in North Korean assets, largely shutting North Korea out of the international financial system. 
 North Korea has demanded the release of the $24 million. Last week, a United States Treasury official met with North Korean diplomats on the issue. 
 Brian Bridges, a professor of politics at Lingnan University in Hong Kong, said no breakthrough was apparent but that there had been speculation that the United States might agree to declare part of the frozen Banco Delta Asia money ''clean'' in a compromise. Mr. Bridges predicted that negotiations this week, at best, might form working groups to discuss particular issues like denuclearization and the sanctions. But he said any larger, significant progress was unlikely. ''I'm not too optimistic,'' he said. ''I don't think there is going to be a major breakthrough.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: Christopher R Hill; Jim Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; China; Russia; Japan; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



165 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: The Fog of Accountability

 BODY:
The details are graphic: billions of dollars of Iraqi oil revenues -- 363 tons of cash -- bundled up and urgently flown to Baghdad on 484 pallets from the Federal Reserve Bank to jump-start a new Iraqi government. Four years later, the unanswered questions are just as graphic: Who was responsible for the money? What became of it? 
 Two years ago, the special inspector general for Iraqi reconstruction reported that $8.8 billion of the cash surge could not be adequately accounted for by the Bush administration's provisional governing authority. The Republican-controlled Congress -- which shrugged off oversight responsibilities for President Bush's failed war -- dutifully sidestepped the issue. Thankfully, the new Democratic Congress is finally investigating the disappeared billions and other aspects of the war's mismanagement.
The details emerging provide a lesson in how easily cash can evaporate into the fog of an unmonitored war. One $500 million outlay was explained away with a one-word record entry -- ''security'' -- in the provisional authority's books. Ten disbursements ranging from $120 million to $900 million have no documentation at all, as if they were petty cash. Paul Bremer III, the former chief of the administration's provisional authority, told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee this week that Iraq was strictly a cash economy with primitive banking, and that there had been no alternative but to spur reconstruction with a fast and poorly documented infusion of billions. ''There are no perfect solutions in Iraq," said Mr. Bremer, still cocky despite the now increasingly apparent and seemingly limitless failures of his tenure.
 According to the inspector general and Congressional investigators, Mr. Bremer's provisional authority, with the full backing of the White House and the Pentagon, doled out an estimated $12 billion to dodgy ministries -- duffle bags full, some of it from the backs of pickups. The fact that this was Iraqi money reserved during the United Nations' oil-for-food program is no comfort to any American taxpayer wondering what's been happening to the hundreds of billions Washington is pouring into Iraq.
 Republican lawmakers at the hearing again tried to gloss over the administration's mismanagement of the war, complaining that the mystery billions were ''old news.'' The real news is that -- at long last -- the truth about the Iraq fiasco is being pursued in public by Congressional investigators. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Editorials; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Frauds and Swindling; Embezzlement

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) L Paul III Bremer

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



166 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: With Bid of Well Over $1 Billion, Starrett City Auction Intensifies

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A real estate partnership is attempting to outmaneuver rival bidders for Starrett City, the sprawling low- and moderate-income complex on Jamaica Bay in Brooklyn, by making a blockbuster offer of well over $1 billion to bring the auction to an abrupt end. 
 The pending sale of Starrett City, the largest federally subsidized housing complex in the country, has created an uproar among residents, housing advocates, local politicians and state and city officials, who want the 46 towers and 5,881 apartments in eastern Brooklyn to remain an affordable enclave for low- and middle-income families.
 But the longtime owners, Starrett City Associates, wanted to take advantage of the soaring prices being offered for residential properties and put the 140-acre property on Jamaica Bay up for auction. According to real estate executives, more than a half-dozen bidders submitted offers for Starrett City on Monday afternoon, ranging from $600 million to more than $1 billion.
 The owners, led by Disque Dean, had told bidders that a select group would be asked to make a final and best offer in the second round of bidding. They had imposed a strict gag order, which barred prospective buyers from speaking to tenants or government officials. The Dean family had promised them that the second-round bidders would be permitted to speak with affected parties.
 Executives who have been briefed on the sale said that Berkshire LLC, a partnership of David Bistricer and Sam Levinson, wanted to short-circuit the second round by offering a premium bid of nearly $1.3 billion.
 Talks between the two sides went late into the night on Tuesday and dragged on yesterday with no resolution. Housing advocates fear that an especially high price will translate into higher rents and that current residents will be displaced over time. State and city officials have said that they want Starrett to remain in the state's Mitchell Lama program as housing for moderate- and middle-income families.
 Government has a great deal of leverage over a new owner. The state holds a $234.4 million, interest-free mortgage on the property. State and federal officials could approve or reject a new owner. City officials would have to approve any plans for large-scale development.
 Shaun Donovan, the city's housing commissioner, said there was little development potential at the complex without a lengthy public review. 
 ''Because of limited market potential in the area,'' he said, ''we would expect any new development to require unusually large government subsidies to be economically feasible and that is unlikely to happen.''
 Bertha Lewis, executive director of New York Acorn, a community organizing group that has been working with the local tenants' association, said, ''There is simply no way that Berkshire can afford to pay $1.3 billion for Starrett City and still keep the complex affordable.''
 She added, ''By offering to pay a quarter of a million dollars per apartment, these developers are virtually guaranteeing that they will raise rents, cut services and build market-rate housing in order to squeeze a profit out of their wildly inflated offer.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Starrett City, the sprawling low- and middle-income housing complex in Brooklyn is for sale. Berkshire LLC, a partnership led by David Bistricer and Sam Levinson, is said to have made a blockbuster offer. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''On the Block''Starrett City, a 140-acre residential complex in eastern Brooklyn, is for sale. The self-contained middle-class community has its own schools, churches, synagogues, shopping and power plant.Map of Brooklyn highlighting Starrett City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROVALS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Housing; Mitchell-Lama Projects; Starrett City Housing Development (Brooklyn); Auctions; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Starrett City Associates; Berkshire LLC

PERSON: Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



167 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Kaizen, That Continuous Improvement Strategy, Finds Its Ideal Environment

BYLINE: By HAL R. VARIAN. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
Remember when Japanese manufacturing techniques were all the rage? You could hardly read the business press without encountering mention of ''lean manufacturing,'' ''just-in-time inventory systems'' and ''total quality management.''
 You don't hear much about these ideas anymore, but not because they are no longer in fashion. Quite the reverse is true: the practices have become so widely adopted that they are no longer newsworthy. 
Nowadays, it is American executives -- especially those from high-tech industries -- who are lecturing the rest of the world on the wonders of Web 2.0 and the latest new new thing emanating from Silicon Valley.
 It is therefore a paradox that one of the most important drivers of online business success is taken directly from the pages of Japanese management techniques. I am referring to kaizen, the practice of continuous improvement.
 Kaizen doesn't just mean a business should keep trying new things. Rather, it refers to a disciplined process of systematic exploration, controlled experimentation and then painstaking adoption of the new procedures. In the original formulation, kaizen was applied to manufacturing, where experimentation could determine whether a new process resulted in quality improvements or cost savings in a matter of months.
 It is much more difficult to apply kaizen to product design, since it can easily take years to design and market a new product. To take a recent example, the iPhone has been two and a half years in the making. 
 Product development can cost hundreds of millions of dollars, making it almost impossible to run a controlled experiment with a product introduction.
 But it is simple to run a controlled experiment with a Web page. Amazon can show a different page layout to every hundredth visitor and determine in a few days whether the new design increases sales.
 Similarly, a search engine can run a controlled experiment to try out a new tweak to its search algorithm and discover in a few hours whether users find it an improvement on the old algorithm. On the Web, continuous improvement really is continuous.
 The cycle of exploration, experimentation and adoption is drastically shortened for Web-based applications. This isn't just the old atoms and bits distinction. Vista, Microsoft's new operating system, has also taken years to develop and only time will tell how successful it will be.
 What's the difference between Vista and Google? There is no feasible way for Microsoft to experiment with Vista in real time; but it is very easy for Google to conduct controlled experiments and do so more or less continuously. 
 Given a performance measure, be it clicks, revenue or something entirely different, a disciplined process of experimentation and evaluation can lead to rapid improvements. The easier it is to experiment and the larger the number of users, the quicker this process can work.
 The most successful online businesses are built on kaizen, though few of those who carry out the testing would recognize the term, since many of those who created these online businesses were in grade school in the 1980s.
 Old media just do not understand online kaizen. Their perceptions are tied to the print world, where design changes are costly. The Wall Street Journal spent years planning its recent redesign of the print edition and millions of dollars rolling it out. Yet it will be months before it becomes clear how successful these changes were.
 By contrast, small tweaks in the page layout of online content can be very effective in improving user satisfaction and ad clicks. Controlled experiments can be used to determine the impact of these changes in days rather than months.
 Yet how many mainstream publishers have Web page software that allows for such controlled experimentation? In most cases, there is but one layout, and experimentation is difficult if not impossible. You can't manage what you can't measure -- and if you can't easily experiment with what you are doing, management is seriously handicapped.
 Kaizen means that the companies currently in an industry have an inherent advantage over new entrants. Entrants have to guess what will work; the companies that are already operating can experiment and find out. 
 This information advantage doesn't preclude new entries; it just makes it more costly since the learning curve is steeper.
 Amazon has some worthy competition in online department stores. But how likely is it that a new entrant will emerge from nowhere and successfully compete in this area? The experience that existing online retailers like Amazon, Buy.com and eBay have built up is hard to duplicate. A new entrant, even one as strong as Wal-Mart, finds the online world rough going.
 This is not to say that new entry is impossible. As the old saying goes, ''You can always tell the pioneers, they're the ones with the arrows in their backs.''
 New entrants have the advantage of avoiding earlier mistakes. They can copy successful operations and, in many cases, improve on them. Newer, faster and more flexible information systems can sometimes confer a competitive advantage on new entrants over the pioneers stuck with the last generation of computing infrastructure.
 But the ability to experiment easily is a critical factor for Web-based applications. The online world is never static. There is a constant flow of new users, new products and new technologies. Being able to figure out quickly what works and what doesn't can mean the difference between survival and extinction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAN MFG (91%); QUALITY CONTROL (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (86%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); WEB 2 (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (64%); SEARCH ENGINES (62%) United States Economy; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (80%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (80%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: Hal R Varian

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



168 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: After Record Profit, Chief Says He'll Leave

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Charles W. Goodyear, the affable Texan and chief executive who adroitly steered BHP Billiton, the Australian mining company, through China's bull market for resources, told shareholders on Wednesday that he would leave in December, and he delivered an early farewell gift: record half-year earnings and a $10 billion stock buyback.
 ''After nine years with the company, and what will be five years as C.E.O., I have decided it is an appropriate time for the organization to transition to the next generation of leadership,'' Mr. Goodyear said in a statement. ''Change and regeneration are part of corporate life, just as they are part of life.'' 
The timing was unexpected, but Mr. Goodyear, 49, had always made clear that he did not intend to stay at BHP permanently. 
 He presided over a boom that has made record profits almost the norm. On Wednesday, the company announced record earnings for the second half of 2006. Net profit in the six months that ended Dec. 31 rose 41 percent, to $6.2 billion, from $4.43 billion, led by soaring Chinese demand for copper and nickel. BHP does not report quarterly results. 
 The company also said that first-half revenue rose 22.3 percent, to $22.1 billion, from $18.1 billion, led by strong growth in sales of copper and nickel. Nickel, an essential ingredient in the manufacturing of stainless steel, is booming because of strong demand from China's automobile and petrochemical industries.
 BHP said it would buy back $10 billion of its own shares, tripling the amount of cash it plans to hand back to shareholders. News of BHP's strong results helped send the Australian benchmark stock index up 0.5 percent to a record close. BHP's shares rose 5 percent.
 Barring a major calamity before his departure, Mr. Goodyear will leave behind a company with a much brighter outlook than when he joined in 1998. 
 ''It's still quite positive and quite robust,'' said Craig Chambers, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in Melbourne. Finding a new chief executive is unlikely to pose a challenge, he said, adding that two strong internal candidates are already being mentioned. ''They'll also look externally for a replacement, and they've got plenty of time to find someone.''
 But it will be difficult to find anyone with the kind of low-key charisma that has made Mr. Goodyear such a solid addition to Australia's corporate scene since 2003, when BHP's board dismissed its chief executive and called Mr. Goodyear back from a ski vacation in Sun Valley, Idaho, to appoint him to the post.
 Stories of Chip -- as he is known in Australia -- cycling to work and sharing the elevator with employees in his biking shorts have endeared him to a country renowned for its love of sports and distaste for pretension. 
 He once brought his children to an earnings briefing to demonstrate to them, he said, that their father did more at work than watch television. 
 China's voracious demand for iron ore, coal and copper has turned Australia's economy into something like California during the Gold Rush. In the resource-rich west and northeast, the boom has created labor shortages, pushing up wages and prompting a surge in migration that has sent property prices soaring. 
 Amid concerns that the boom may prove a bubble, Australia's news media pore over Mr. Goodyear's utterances on demand from China, like pundits parsing the Congressional testimony of the Federal Reserve chairman.
 Mr. Goodyear has made a habit of pointing to charts likening the China-led commodities boom to the Industrial Revolution. Wednesday's presentation included a chart comparing growth in Chinese demand for copper with similar booms for the metal in the United States in the 1880s to explain why a United States economic slowdown was unlikely to dent global demand for the metal.
 Such buoyant demand complicates the task of assessing Mr. Goodyear's contribution to BHP. 
 ''He's put a stamp on the company,'' said Mark Pervan, an analyst at Daiwa Securities in Melbourne. ''But let's face it: he's been lucky with the market.'' 
 Analysts say Mr. Goodyear's impact on BHP may not be entirely visible until several years after his departure. Only then, once supply finally manages to catch up with demand, will the kind of financial discipline Mr. Goodyear helped introduce prove its mettle, they said.
 A former investment banker with degrees from Yale and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Goodyear was recruited as chief financial officer from Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold as BHP was floundering in a commodities slump caused by the Asian financial crisis of 1997. Just the year before, BHP had spent $3.2 billion to buy Magma, a copper producer in the United States, only to end up writing off the entire purchase. 
 Mr. Goodyear helped impose discipline over new projects, subjecting them to a more rigorous analysis that he has helped to maintain since BHP's 2001 merger with Britain's Billiton. 
 BHP adopted a sophisticated risk management system and created trading desks in Singapore and London that not only enabled it to keep tabs on the markets for its products, but also to buy fuel for its mines more cheaply. Pricing power has helped BHP maintain fat profit margins even as costs for fuel, equipment and labor climb. 
 While such parsimony suited the chastened company, it left it ill-prepared to cope with China's sudden emergence into the commodities market this decade. With analysts doubting the longevity of the boom, Mr. Goodyear sallied forth in 2005 and snatched rival WMC Resources away from Xstrata, the Swiss miner, for $7 billion in cash.
 Viewed at the time as an expensive way to increase BHP's supply of copper and nickel, the deal proved a masterstroke in the company's drive to offset its exposure to minerals by venturing further into energy. 
 WMC owned the world's largest-known reserve of uranium. Last year, Australia signed a deal to start selling uranium to China, which plans to build at least 40 nuclear plants in the next 15 years. Uranium prices have more than doubled since the WMC purchase.
 Analysts say gambles like that one justify Mr. Goodyear's $6.5 million compensation in the company's most recent financial year. 
 As Mr. Pervan at Daiwa said: ''He's not going to have to be singing for his supper when he leaves.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles W. Goodyear, right on screen, the chief of BHP Billiton, announcing $6.2 billion in profit via video from London yesterday to a gathering in Sydney, Australia. Earnings were led by soaring Chinese demand. (Photo by Mark Baker/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); NICKEL MINING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (64%); CYCLING (60%); PETROCHEMICALS (50%) Company Reports ; Records and Achievements; Mines and Mining; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Bhp Billiton

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (95%); BIBLT (JSE) (95%); BBL (NYSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (95%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (95%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (95%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (95%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: MARK BAKER (58%) Charles W Goodyear; Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (58%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (73%) AUSTRALIA (96%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



169 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Mormon Candidate Braces for Religion as Issue

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and LAURIE GOODSTEIN; Adam Nagourney reported from Washington, and Laurie Goodstein from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
As he begins campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, is facing a threshold issue: Will his religion -- he is a Mormon -- be a big obstacle to winning the White House?
 Polls show a substantial number of Americans will not vote for a Mormon for president. The religion is viewed with suspicion by Christian conservatives, a vital part of the Republicans' primary base.
Mr. Romney's advisers acknowledged that popular misconceptions about Mormonism -- as well as questions about whether Mormons are beholden to their church's leaders on public policy -- could give his opponents ammunition in the wide-open fight among Republicans to become the consensus candidate of social conservatives.
 Mr. Romney, in an extended interview on the subject as he drove through South Carolina last week, expressed confidence that he could quell concerns about his faith, pointing to his own experience winning in Massachusetts. He said he shared with many Americans the bafflement over obsolete Mormon practices like polygamy -- he described it as ''bizarre'' -- and disputed the argument that his faith would require him to be loyal to his church before his country. 
 ''People have interest early on in your religion and any similar element of your background,'' he said. ''But as soon as they begin to watch you on TV and see the debates and hear you talking about issues, they are overwhelmingly concerned with your vision of the future and the leadership skills that you can bring to bear.''
 Still, Mr. Romney is taking no chances. He has set up a meeting this month in Florida with 100 ministers and religious broadcasters. That gathering follows what was by all accounts a successful meeting at his home last fall with evangelical leaders, including the Rev. Jerry Falwell; the Rev. Franklin Graham, who is a son of the Rev. Billy Graham; and Paula White, a popular preacher. 
 Mr. Romney said he was giving strong consideration to a public address about his faith and political views, modeled after the one John F. Kennedy gave in 1960 in the face of a wave of concern about his being a Roman Catholic. 
 Mr. Romney's aides said he had closely studied Kennedy's speech in trying to measure how to navigate the task of becoming the nation's first Mormon president, and he has consulted other Mormon elected leaders, including Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, about how to proceed. 
 Mr. Romney appears to be making some headway. Several prominent evangelical leaders said that, after meeting him, they had grown sufficiently comfortable with the notion of Mr. Romney as president to overcome any concerns they might have about his religion. 
 On a pragmatic level, some said that Mr. Romney -- despite questions among conservatives about his shifting views on abortion and gay rights -- struck them as the Republican candidate best able to win and carry their social conservative agenda to the White House. 
 ''There's this growing acceptance of this idea that Mitt Romney may well be and is our best candidate,'' said Jay Sekulow, the chief counsel for the American Center for Law and Justice, a conservative legal advocacy group, and a prominent host on Christian radio.
 Mark DeMoss, an evangelical public relations consultant who represents many conservative Christian groups, said it was ''more important to me that a candidate shares my values than my faith,'' adding, ''And if I look at it this way, Mr. Romney would be my top choice.''
 Mormons consider themselves to be Christians, but some beliefs central to Mormons are regarded by other churches as heretical. For example, Mormons have three books of Scripture other than the Bible, including the Book of Mormon, which Mormons believe was translated from golden plates discovered in 1827 by Joseph Smith Jr., the church's founder and first prophet. 
 Mormons believe that Smith rescued Christianity from apostasy and restored the church to what was envisioned in the New Testament -- but these doctrines are beyond the pale for most Christian churches.
 Beyond that, there are perceptions among some people regarding the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as the church is formally known, that account for at least some of the public unease: that Mormons still practice polygamy (the church renounced polygamy in 1890), that it is more of a cult than a religion and that its members take political direction from the church's leaders. 
 Several Republicans said such perceptions could be a problem for Mr. Romney, especially in the South, which has had a disproportionate influence in selecting Republican presidential nominees. 
 Gloria A. Haskins, a state representative from South Carolina who is supporting Senator John McCain for the Republican nomination, said discussions with her constituents in Greenville, an evangelical stronghold, convinced her that a Mormon like Mr. Romney could not win a Republican primary in her state. South Carolina has one of the earliest, and most critical, primaries next year.
 ''From what I hear in my district, it is very doubtful,'' Ms. Haskins said. ''This is South Carolina. We're very mainstream, evangelical, Christian, conservative. It will come up. In this of all states, it will come up.''
 But Katon Dawson, the state Republican chairman, said he thought Mr. Romney had made significant progress in dealing with those concerns. ''I have heard him on his personal faith and on his character and conviction and the love for his country,'' Mr. Dawson said. ''I have all confidence that he will be able to answer those questions, whether they be in negative ads against him or in forums or in debates.''
 Mr. Romney's candidacy has stirred discussion about faith and the White House unlike any since Kennedy, including a remarkable debate that unfolded recently in The New Republic. Damon Linker, a critic of the influence of Christian conservatism on politics, described Mormonism as a ''theologically unstable, and thus politically perilous, religion.'' 
 The article brought a stinging rebuttal in the same publication from Richard Lyman Bushman, a Mormon who is a history professor at Columbia University, and who said Mr. Linker's arguments had ''no grounding in reality.''
 Mr. Romney is not the first Mormon to seek a presidential nomination, but by every indication he has the best chance yet of being in the general election next year. His father, George Romney, was a candidate in 1968, but his campaign collapsed before he ever had to deal seriously with questions about religion. 
 Senator Hatch said his own candidacy in 2000, which was something of a long shot, was to ''knock down prejudice against my faith.'' 
 ''There's a lot of prejudice out there,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''We've come a long way, but there are still many people around the country who consider the Mormon faith a cult.''
 But if Mr. Romney has made progress with evangelicals, he appears to face a larger challenge in dispelling apprehensions among the public at large. A national poll by The Los Angeles Times and Bloomberg News last June found 37 percent said they would not vote for a Mormon for president. 
 Mr. Romney offered assurances that seemed to reflect what Kennedy told the nation in discussing his Catholicism some 50 years ago. Mr. Romney said the requirements of his faith would never overcome his political obligations. He pointed out that in Massachusetts, he had signed laws allowing stores to sell alcohol on Sundays, even though he was prohibited by his faith from drinking, and to expand the state lottery, though Mormons are forbidden to gamble. He also noted that Mormons are not exclusively Republicans, pointing to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader.
 ''There's no church-directed view,'' Mr. Romney said. ''How can you have Harry Reid on one side and Orrin Hatch on the other without recognizing that the church doesn't direct political views? I very clearly subscribe to Abraham Lincoln's view of America's political religion. And that is when you take the oath of office, your responsibility is to the nation, and that is first and foremost.''
 He said he was not concerned about the resistance in the polls. ''If you did a poll and said: 'Could a divorced actor be elected as president? Would you vote for a divorced actor as president?' my guess is 70 percent would say no. But then they saw Ronald Reagan. They heard him. They heard his vision. They heard his experience. They said: 'I like Ronald Reagan. I'm voting for him.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitt Romney gave the first major policy speech of his presidential campaign yesterday in an address to the Detroit Economic Club. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLYGAMY (73%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ABORTION (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Mormons (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints); Election Issues; Church-State Relations; United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Conservatism (US Politics); Evangelical Movement; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 1960; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (90%) Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); ORRIN HATCH (58%) Mitt Romney; Adam Nagourney; Laurie Goodstein; Jerry (Rev) Falwell; Franklin (Rev) Graham; Paula White; John Fitzgerald (1917-63) Kennedy; Jay Alan Sekulow; Mark DeMoss; Harry (Sen) Reid

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



170 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: TAKEOVER BATTLE ENDS WITH SALE OF BIG LANDLORD

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
''Roses are red, violets are blue; I hear a rumor, is it true?'' 
 That strained line of poetry set off the fiercest buyout battle since the epic contest for RJR Nabisco in the late 1980s, a struggle that was captured in the book ''Barbarians at the Gate.''
The line, written by the real estate mogul Samuel Zell in an e-mail message last month, invited a rival bid topping a $48.50 a share offer for his Equity Office Properties, the biggest office landlord in the nation, with buildings in Manhattan, Chicago, Atlanta and other major cities.
 The reply: ''Roses are red, violets are blue. I love you Sam, our bid is 52.'' 
 The rhyme was true, but the comeback was not good enough. 
 The private equity giant Blackstone Group, which was the initial bidder, won the bidding war for Equity Office yesterday with an offer of $55.50 a share, or $39 billion.
 The takeover battle, perhaps the most entertaining of recent years because of the big financial players -- and big egos -- involved, was called ''New York at the Gate,'' because it pitted two very different New York financiers against each other: Stephen A. Schwarzman of Blackstone, the leading figure in Manhattan's financial and charity circuit in recent years, and Steven Roth of Vornado, the onetime strip mall king of New Jersey.
 The deal for Equity Office encapsulates two of the hottest trends in deal-making: the wave of capital flooding into commercial real estate and the growing power of private money. 
 While residential real estate has slowed, commercial real estate, office buildings in particular, looks more attractive as the market finally shakes off the effects of the burst technology bubble in 2000. Many investors expect office vacancy rates to continue to decline in the next couple of years, with a corresponding rise in rents.
 And private equity firms like Blackstone have been among some of the most aggressive investors in commercial real estate. These firms have accumulated huge war chests: even now Blackstone is raising a new $10 billion real estate fund. The surge in buyouts -- which accounted for a fifth of the record $3.8 trillion in deals last year -- shows no sign of slowing. 
 The Equity Office deal is the biggest leveraged private equity buyout ever, surpassing last summer's $32 billion deal for the hospital chain HCA, which itself was the first to surpass the previous high-water mark, the $30 billion deal for RJR Nabisco.
 Memories of that earlier contest were much on the minds of the bidders for Equity Office. At internal meetings when Blackstone would debate how to counter Vornado, Mr. Schwarzman would remind his bankers: ''We don't want to be K.K.R.,'' referring to the buyout of RJR Nabisco that turned out a disappointment to Mr. Schwarzman's archrival, Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company. 
 ''We need to remember this is just another deal,'' Mr. Schwarzman said, according to people close to the firm. 
 Blackstone had a huge incentive to make the deal. The firm will pay itself an ''acquisition fee'' worth about half of 1 percent of the deal -- the equivalent of about $200 million just for winning the auction, no matter how well the investment turns out. (Blackstone is not alone. Its advisers, Goldman Sachs and the law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, will also earn millions of dollars in fees.)
 And Blackstone will waste no time disposing of some of its newly acquired assets, taking advantage of the hot Manhattan real estate market. All but one of Equity Office's eight buildings in New York -- the Verizon building at 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas -- are expected to be sold to Harry Macklowe for about $7 billion, some simultaneously with Friday's closing. 
 Blackstone was a winner, but Mr. Zell, 65, a raspy-voiced tycoon with a penchant for doggerel, music boxes and Ducati motorcycles, was an even bigger one. Even his detractors are saying he ran a masterly sale, encouraging a bidding war that drove up the price for Equity Office by $3 billion. Mr. Zell stands to make more than $130 million on his shares and options in the company. 
 ''When Sam steps into the prime decision-making role,'' said Timothy H. Callahan, a former chief executive of Equity Office, ''no one is better able to be strategic. That's what shareholders have seen in the past, and that's why he will continue to wear the mantle as one of the leading lights of real estate.''
 It may have helped that Mr. Zell knew the bidders so well. As he said in an interview yesterday, ''This was like a family outing in the Turkish bath.''
 The son of Jewish immigrants who fled Poland hours before the Nazi invasion, Mr. Zell grew up in Chicago. He showed an entrepreneurial streak at an early age, buying issues of Playboy magazine from newsstand vendors and selling them at a marked-up price to his friends.
 Mr. Zell first made his fortune in the 1970s by buying distressed real estate and fixing it up, earning him the nickname ''the grave dancer.'' In contrast to real estate moguls like Donald J. Trump, he shied away from trophy buildings, preferring strong financials to prestige. With his branding and financial acumen, he was one of the first to transform commercial real estate from a local affair to a national business. 
 But a year ago, his company was selling for $29 a share. After several missteps, including buying $7.2 billion worth of Silicon Valley property just before the technology bust, Mr. Zell's reputation as the sage of the real estate industry was in serious jeopardy. Now the sale has restored his reputation.
 The battle for Equity Office started much earlier than any headline suggested. Last July, Mr. Roth secretly proposed merging Vornado with Equity Office to Mr. Zell. The two friends began negotiating back and forth for months.
 Not long after, Jonathan D. Gray, a 37-year-old rising star within Blackstone's real estate group, took Equity Office's president, Richard D. Kincaid, for breakfast at the Peninsula New York hotel in Midtown Manhattan. After small talk, Mr. Gray, who looks even younger than his age despite a 5 o'clock shadow, asked whether Equity Office's board would ever consider selling the company. 
 Mr. Kincaid told him: ''If you came with a 'Godfather' price the board would have to listen.''
 Two months later, Mr. Gray, calling from his wood-paneled office on the 32nd floor of Blackstone's headquarters on Park Avenue, asked Equity Office's banker at Merrill Lynch, Douglas W. Sesler: ''What would a Godfather price be?'' 
 A price that could not be refused, he was told, would be at least $45 and closer to $50.
 In November, Blackstone reached a deal with Equity Office for $48.50 a share, and the assumption of $16 billion in debt, for a total of $36 billion. The deal by Blackstone floored Mr. Roth, who had been kept in the dark. 
 Despite the huge price tag, industry insiders thought it was remarkably low. Barry S. Sternlicht, the founder of Starwood Hotels and chairman of Starwood Capital, called the deal ''the greatest heist of all time'' on a panel at a Bear Stearns conference last fall. Vornado's president, Michael D. Fascitelli, was also on that panel.
 Mr. Roth decided to mount a new bid. He reached out to several possible partners, including General Electric and Cerberus Capital Management, among others, according to people involved in the process. Vornado was interested in owning Equity Offices properties in major markets, but was looking to sell properties in ancillary markets.
 Mr. Sternlicht and Neil Bluhm, a Chicago real estate mogul who was Mr. Sternlicht's mentor in the late 1980s, approached Mr. Roth before Christmas about working together and buying those ancillary properties.
 They declared war on Jan. 18, lobbing in a bid of $52 a share. Mr. Schwarzman and Mr. Gray scrambled to salvage their deal. They negotiated to increase their offer to $54 a share if Equity Office would raise the breakup fee to $500 million, from $200 million. 
 Mr. Roth, holed up in his office above Penn Station with expansive views of Manhattan, plotted return fire. A week later, Vornado bid $56 a share in cash and stock. While it was a higher offer, it also was much less certain because some of the payment was in stock and it would take months to be completed compared with Blackstone's bid, which could be completed this week. 
 Equity Office, which was advised by Merrill Lynch and the law firm of Sidley Austin, said it would still back Blackstone and set a shareholder vote for yesterday. 
 Mr. Roth spent the weekend considering his options. He did not want to raise his bid, thinking that paying more than $56 a share was too much. And Blackstone had exercised its right to prevent Vornado from talking to Equity Office or having access to electronic data about the company. But he needed to do something. 
 Flanked by his advisers, including James. B. Lee of JPMorgan Chase and Mark G. Shafir of Lehman Brothers, they decided to fire another shot on Sunday night. Vornado would not pay more, but it agreed to pay a larger cash portion and pay it much more quickly, making its bid more attractive.
 The new offer hit the tape just as the Super Bowl started. Mr. Gray of Blackstone, a Chicago native who had given up his seats to the game to stay in New York, missed seeing a remarkable kickoff return by the Chicago Bears as he jumped on the phone to strategize about what to do.
 The next day, Blackstone went to Equity Office with a new bid of $55.25 a share. Mr. Zell asked for another 25 cents; in exchange, the breakup fee was increased to $720 million. 
 And then everyone waited for Mr. Roth's response. But there was none. Blackstone had won. 
 By chance yesterday morning, Mr. Zell and Mr. Roth found themselves having separate breakfast meetings at the Carlyle Hotel on Manhattan's Upper East Side. It was 7:30 a.m., nearly two hours before Vornado would say that it was out of the race.
 Barred by Equity Office's agreement with Blackstone from having a conversation before the vote, Mr. Zell said he smiled at Mr. Roth. Mr. Roth smiled back. 
 ''I love you, Stevie,'' Mr. Zell said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Kincaid, the chief of Equity Office Properties, announced the merger with Blackstone yesterday. Blackstone beat Vornado's offer. (Photo by Joe Tabacca for The New York Times)
Jonathan D. Gray of Blackstone. (Photo by The Blackstone Group)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Battle for a Building Empire''Over the last month, the Blackstone Group and a group of investors led by Vornado have been bidding for America's biggest office landlord, Equity Office Properties Trust. Blackstone came out on top with an all-cash offer worth $39 billion.Graph shows EQUITY OFFICE STOCK PRICE from November 2006-February 2007.Vornado's bids were a mixture of cash and stock, which Equity Office said was a riskier proposal.Blackstone's bids were all-cash offers.Some Equity Office buildingsNEW YORK: Worldwide PlazaBOSTON: One Post OfficeATLANTA: Promenade IICHICAGO: Civic Opera BuildingSEATTLE: Columbia CenterSAN FRANCISCO: One MarketLOS ANGELES: Two California Plaza(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
Equity Office Properties)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Biggest One Yet''The top leveraged buyout deals announced, including debt.TARGET: 1. Equity Office PropertiesACQUIRER: Blackstone GroupVALUE IN BILLIONS: DEAL$39 ANNOUNCED: Nov. '06TARGET: 2. HCAACQUIRER: Bain Capital
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
Merrill Lynch Global Private EquityVALUE IN BILLIONS: 32DEAL ANNOUNCED: July '06TARGET: 3. RJR NabiscoACQUIRER: Kohlberg Kravis RobertsVALUE IN BILLIONS: 30DEAL ANNOUNCED: Oct. '88TARGET: 4. Kinder MorganACQUIRER: GS Capital Partners
AIG
Carlyle Group
Riverstone HoldingsVALUE IN BILLIONS: 27DEAL ANNOUNCED: May '06TARGET: 5. Harrah's EntertainmentACQUIRER: Apollo Management
Texas Pacific GroupVALUE IN BILLIONS: 27DEAL ANNOUNCED: Oct. '06TARGET: 6. Clear Channel CommunicationsACQUIRER: Bain Capital Partners
Thomas H. Lee PartnersVALUE IN BILLIONS: 27DEAL ANNOUNCED: Nov. '06TARGET: 7. Georgia-PacificACQUIRER: Koch Forest ProductsVALUE IN BILLIONS: 20DEAL ANNOUNCED: Nov. '05TARGET: 8. Freescale SemiconductorACQUIRER: Texas Pacific Group
Blackstone Group
Permira Beteiligungsberatung
Carlyle GroupVALUE IN BILLIONS: 17DEAL ANNOUNCED: Sept. '06TARGET: 9. AlbertsonsACQUIRER: SuperValu
CVS
Cerberus Capital ManagementVALUE IN BILLIONS: 17DEAL ANNOUNCED: Jan. '06TARGET: 10. Univision CommunicationsACQUIRER: Saban Capital Group
Madison Dearborn Capital
Providence Equity Partners: Texas Pacific Group
 Thomas H. Lee PartnersVALUE IN BILLIONS: 13DEAL ANNOUNCED: June '06(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); POETRY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); DIVESTITURES (79%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (67%); TRENDS (64%); RETAILERS (64%); HOSPITALS (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Real Estate; Records and Achievements; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (85%); EQUITY OFFICE MANAGEMENT LLC (84%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Equity Office Properties Trust; Blackstone Group; Vornado Realty Trust

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (90%); JONATHAN GRAY (72%); RICHARD D KINCAID (70%); STEVEN ROTH (50%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Terry Pristin; Stephen A Schwarzman; Steven Roth; Samuel Zell; Harry Macklowe; Jonathan D Gray; Richard D Kincaid

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



171 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Adds Safety Measures in Response to Rise in Construction Deaths

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Responding to an alarming spike in fatal construction accidents, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a raft of measures yesterday to improve worker safety. These steps include creating a new inspection team at the Buildings Department, increasing regulations and training, and sharply increasing the penalties for violations.
 The measures follow the recommendations of a task force formed in November, just after the death of Ramiro Jara, 25, a laborer who fell about 15 stories after making a misstep while moving across a building near Union Square. 
The city has been under pressure to address the increase in deaths. Advocates for the workers have complained that regulators are failing to safeguard them during a construction boom that is expected to yield some $45 billion worth of building over the next 10 years. 
 Statistics released last fall showed that in the 12 months preceding Sept. 30, 29 laborers died in work-related accidents, with 17 of them falling to their deaths. That was an increase of 61 percent over the previous year, when 18 construction workers were killed, 9 in falls.
 ''I know a lot of people will say, 'Oh more regulation,' but there were 29 people that died last year,'' Mr. Bloomberg said as he made the announcement at City Hall. ''It is appropriate when you can really save lives, even though it is costly and it is annoying. But the bottom line is things that come first are the lives of the people that are living and working in the city.''
 Toward that end, Mr. Bloomberg said, the city is setting aside $4 million to create a unit at the Buildings Department to improve safety on scaffolding suspended from the tops of buildings. That unit will include 10 new inspectors to conduct sweeps and enforce safety regulations by, for example, making sure workers wear harnesses when working on the scaffolds.
 ''It's dangerous working at great heights, and there's not a lot of room for error,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''But we think that if we are careful and insist that workers use harnesses, we can make a very big dent in the tragedy that every year seems to befall the people who are making our city better.''
 In addition, officials have submitted legislation to the City Council that would allow the city to oversee the most common type of suspension mechanism involved in the fatalities, called a C-hook, which is currently unregulated. The bills would require advance notification of the use of a scaffold suspended by C-hook, would allow the city to stop work and revoke licenses and would increase the range of penalties for violations to $1,250 to $15,000, from $500 to $2,500.
 An additional $2 million will pay for enhanced training and outreach for contractors and laborers, in many of the languages spoken in the construction industry, like Spanish, Chinese, Polish, Russian and Urdu, officials said.
 Although workers' advocates praised the moves, they said they were only the beginning.
 Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers' Association, who is on the task force, challenged the administration to continue looking for ways to ensure that the regulations were followed by workers and employers at nonunion job sites, which he said accounted for the vast majority of deaths.
 ''Mr. Mayor, I hope that after today when we close this chapter, we can open up another chapter and discuss overall construction safety in New York City,'' Mr. Coletti said at the news conference.
 ''We need to take a look at setting standards for everybody to comply to, and that whether you're union or nonunion, so we can end this tragic occurrence in an economy that is growing by unprecedented levels,'' he said.
 Joel A. Shufro, another member of the task force, who is the executive director of the New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health, a nonprofit education and advocacy group, called the measures ''the first step in the right direction.'' He said the mayor should be congratulated for ''moving forward quickly to try and deal with what is an epidemic of fatalities in our city.''
 Still, Mr. Shufro said, the hanging scaffolds were only one part of a much larger problem. He said it was unclear whether 10 inspectors would be able to police an entire city's worth of construction projects, especially given the proliferation of employers who do not provide their workers with proper safety equipment. Mr. Shufro said that adding criminal penalties might have been a more effective deterrent than just increasing the fines.
 ''We would have been happier if there had been criminal sanctions written into the law,'' Mr. Shufro said. ''We believe that nothing focuses employers' attention better than the prospect of spending time in jail for not following safety precautions.''
 Asked whether the administration had considered such an approach, which some other places have used, Mr. Bloomberg said that the city was focused more on deterrence.
 ''What we're going to do is prevent people from getting killed,'' he said. ''If unfortunately somebody does, then we'll let the law play itself out. But our objective is not to get vengeance; our objective is to prevent the need for calling in the cops.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); STATISTICS (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); DEREGULATION (60%) Building (Construction); Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Fines (Penalties); Falls

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



172 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart and a Union Unite, at Least on Health Policy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
They have established one of the fiercest rivalries in the American economy, attacking one another's organizations through dueling blogs, newspaper advertisements and news conferences. 
 But this morning, in an extraordinary meeting in Washington, the chiefs of Wal-Mart Stores and the Service Employees International Union stood together and agreed on a series of goals for achieving universal health coverage, according to people briefed on the matter.
The meeting between H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart, and Andrew L. Stern, president of the S.E.I.U., which capped months of secret conversations, could be the beginning, however tentative, of a detente between the nation's largest employer and its labor critics. 
 At least on one issue. But the issue -- providing affordable health insurance -- is arguably the biggest facing both Mr. Stern and Mr. Scott. Wal-Mart, which insures fewer than half its workers, has identified health care as potentially the biggest vulnerability to its image and business, and the S.E.I.U., one of the country's biggest unions, has called it the No. 1 priority for its members.
 So during today's meeting, Mr. Stern and Mr. Scott announced a campaign to seek public acceptance of several principles of health policy. One goal is universal health coverage by a specific date, somewhere around 2012. Another is the idea of shared responsibility, emphasizing that individuals, businesses and government all play roles in financing health care and expanding coverage.
 Executives from AT&T, Intel and several nonprofit organizations also participated in today's meeting.
 The agreement is unlikely to end the rancor between Wal-Mart and unions, largely because the retailer's fiercest critic is the United Food and Commercial Workers, the union behind WakeUpWalMart.com.
 In a statement, WakeUpWalMart.com divulged last night for the first time that it had met with a Wal-Mart executive in December to discuss the company's health insurance, among other things, but decided the retailer was not serious about significantly improving its benefits. 
 ''No one, in good conscience or without a real commitment from Wal-Mart to make substantive changes,'' the statement said, ''could look the other way and ignore the awful fact that Wal-Mart still fails to provide company health care to over half of its employees.''
 Mr. Stern is likely to keep criticizing Wal-Mart on several fronts, according to people who work with him who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to talk publicly. 
 But the fact that Mr. Scott and Mr. Stern are speaking, let alone agreeing on something, is somewhat surprising. 
 In 2004, Mr. Stern authorized the creation of an S.E.I.U.-backed group, called Wal-Mart Watch, that has relentlessly criticized the retailer, leaked internal company documents to the news media and pressed it to change its labor policies. 
 Mr. Scott, in turn, has lashed out at union-backed critics like the S.E.I.U. and Wal-Mart Watch, calling them special-interest groups spreading misinformation and half-truths about the chain. 
 But in July, the icy relationship between the men began to thaw after Mr. Stern wrote an op-ed article encouraging large corporations to work with unions to create alternatives to the employer-based health coverage system, which he said was collapsing. Mr. Stern sent the article, by certified mail, to hundreds of chief executives seeking their help. 
 Mr. Scott, who has already expanded Wal-Mart's health care benefits, responded, beginning a confidential series of conversations that culminated in today's news conference. 
 Harley Shaiken, a professor specializing in labor issues at the University of California, Berkeley, said the meeting represented ''a combination of pragmatism, idealism and desperation on the part of Wal-Mart and S.E.I.U; health care has become a devastating issue for both.''
 But Mr. Shaiken said that with Wal-Mart's reputation for fighting unionization and Mr. Stern's advocacy for the labor movement, the pair are unlikely to become the best of friends. Wal-Mart is not unionized in United States.
 ''Lee Scott is willing to sit in the same room with Andy Stern,'' Mr. Shaiken said, ''he just doesn't want to sit across a bargaining table from Andy Stern.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); INTEL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



173 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Two Things to Get Us Out of Iraq

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Yes, We Can Find the Exit'' (column, Feb. 7):
 Thomas L. Friedman should take his plan to withdraw from Iraq one step further.
 We keep saying that Iraq is an independent democratic nation. So we should ask the Iraqi Parliament to hold an up-or-down majority vote on whether United States and coalition forces should leave by Dec. 1, as Mr. Friedman suggests. In that way, we are simply leaving in accordance with the vote of a sovereign nation.Richard S. GreeleySt. Davids, Pa., Feb. 7, 2007To the Editor:
 Thank you, Thomas L. Friedman, for what seems to be a workable solution to the deadly situation in Iraq. 
 Setting a higher price on gasoline will encourage more commuters to limit their use of cars and find alternative means -- public transportation or car-pooling. 
 Leaving the Sunnis and the Shiites to solve their own problems by bringing our troops back to the United States could save the lives of 3,000 more uniformed men and women. 
 We should not be sending 20,000 more troops as fodder for the warring tribes.Jacqueline RichmanDelray Beach, Fla., Feb. 7, 2007To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's plan to get the troops out of Iraq may not be clear to everyone, but it is quite sound and very possible. It might even be acceptable to all the parties of whom he asks so much.
 But there is one improvement that should be made, and that is the exit date. Dec. 1 allows too much time for an unacceptable loss of American (and Iraqi) lives and greater expenditure of American dollars. 
 The recent change of generals can lead to a swifter exit than the drastically botched entry and should be well under way and perhaps near completion by June 1. All Americans could then really celebrate our Independence Day on the Fourth of July.Gaeton D. LauriEvanston, Ill., Feb. 7, 2007To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman's proposal for a $3.50 floor on domestic gasoline sales is sensible and long overdue, both to attenuate our dependence on Middle East oil and to put our country on a credible conservation track. 
 The resulting incentive for alternative-energy development could drive whole new industries over the next couple of decades, with impressive net benefits for the nation. 
 But let's not forget that the postwar United States economic infrastructure was fed and shaped by cheap energy, which has enabled sprawl, large and inefficient motor vehicles, and woefully inadequate public transportation. 
 The transition to higher gasoline costs will not be trivial, especially if prices continue to be ratcheted upward to ensure real, sustained conservation. 
 Among the most critical consideration will be how to offset the impact on the working poor and lower middle classes, who depend on automobiles to get to jobs and schools often far from their residences. 
 The challenge of this brave new energy future is formidable but worth the struggle, so long as the most vulnerable members of our society are protected along the way.Peter J. Kennedy Jr.Glastonbury, Conn., Feb. 7, 2007The writer, a principal of the Futures Strategy Group, has done consulting work for the federal government.To the Editor:
 The Iraq war has been fought with the time, toil, money, muscle and blood of the middle and lower classes. 
 In contrast, the upper and ruling classes have not missed a single day at the office or a weekend at the beach during this national nightmare. 
 By and large, they have spilled no blood of their own or of their children. They have made obscene profits in the markets and turned them into gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s, oil-gorging McMansions and large donations to the cynical politicians who have orchestrated this bull market of a war. 
 And now Thomas L. Friedman is suggesting one more sacrifice for middle America that is guaranteed to have no impact on the Lincoln Navigator class: $3.50-per-gallon gasoline.
 It is time for the profiteers to feel the pinch of this war. It is time for those who help shape national attitudes to use their estimable analytic skills to find solutions to this fiasco that protect and defend ordinary people.Steven LewisNew Paltz, N.Y., Feb. 7, 2007To the Editor: 
 Thomas L. Friedman is correct that a sharp fall in the price of oil could cause all kinds of problems for Iran and its ayatollahs (''The Oil-Addicted Ayatollahs,'' column, Feb. 2). But a sharp rise in the price of oil, which would surely follow a United States or Israeli attack on Iran, would create all kinds of problems for the United States and other industrial countries and probably cause a world recession. 
 What would be better for the United States, a fall or a rise in the price of oil?Yale RichmondWashington, Feb. 2, 2007

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Felix Sockwell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); GASOLINE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Atomic Weapons; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: Futures Strategy Group

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%) Thomas L Friedman; Richard S Greeley; Jacqueline Richman; Gaeton D Lauri; Peter J Jr Kennedy; Steven Lewis; Yale Richmond

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



174 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Insurer's Financial Weakness May Imperil Trade Center Project

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A new financing gap may be about to open in the rebuilding plan for ground zero. One of the insurance companies that provided coverage for the World Trade Center is in financial trouble and may not be able to pay the $250 million claim that the developer Larry A. Silverstein and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey say they are owed as a result of the destruction of the complex by terrorists in 2001.
 The money from Royal & SunAlliance USA, the American subsidiary of a big British insurer, Royal Sun Alliance, represents less than 3 percent of the total cost of the massive project, now estimated at $9 billion. But with a fragile budget and rapidly escalating construction costs, every dollar counts. Mr. Silverstein's aides say he may miss construction deadlines if the insurer fails to pay up, or he could be forced to scale back the project, which includes the 1,776-foot-tall Freedom Tower and three other skyscrapers. 
 ''This puts at risk the schedule and the budget for the rebuilding,'' said Janno Lieber, the World Trade Center project director for the Silverstein organization. ''It creates new uncertainty, which is just what downtown doesn't need.''
 It has always been a struggle to get enough money to rebuild ground zero.
 The insurance proceeds, about $4.6 billion, only covered about half the total cost. The other half had to be made up with a combination of state, federal and private financing.
 The insurance dispute grew out of a move by Royal Sun Alliance to sever its relationship with Royal & SunAlliance USA, which provided a part of the trade center coverage. 
 The subsidiary has been in financial trouble for several years. Now, the parent company says it no longer wants to prop up the American unit. With a final cash infusion of $287.5 million, Royal Sun Alliance hopes to turn the subsidiary over to a group of American executives and be done with it.
 ''We are a business, not a charity,'' said George Culmer, the chief financial officer for the British insurer, at a hearing called by the Department of Insurance in Delaware, where the company has its American headquarters. 
 The hearing officer, Lawrence A. Hamermesh, a professor at Widener University Law School, concluded that Royal & SunAlliance USA, which would change its name to Arrowpoint Capital Corporation, has enough money to pay its claims to Mr. Silverstein, General Motors and other American corporations. He has recommended that the deal be approved. 
 But Mr. Silverstein's group and other American corporate customers argue that Mr. Hamermesh is overly optimistic about the financially troubled company's ability to pay up. ''If the parent company pulls out, we don't think we'll get paid anything like what we're owed,'' said Marc Wolinsky, a lawyer for Mr. Silverstein.
 The Silverstein Group and other policyholders have been given until tomorrow to file objections. 
 Last fall, state and city officials, the Port Authority and Mr. Silverstein agreed on a framework for rebuilding the 16-acre trade center site by 2012. The Port Authority, which owns the land, took financial responsibility for building the Freedom Tower, whose projected cost stands at $3 billion.
 The Port Authority is also building a $2.2 billion transit hub and working with government officials and private business leaders to erect a memorial and museum.
 Mr. Silverstein, in turn, is building three other towers along the eastern edge of the site, with a combination of insurance proceeds, tax-free Liberty Bonds and private borrowing, with the intent to lease space to the Port Authority and other agencies. 
 The developer and others have long complained that the insurers have been slow to pay. The problem with Royal & SunAlliance USA has been slowly evolving. The company encountered financial difficulty several years ago because of claims from the trade center attack and because of a wave of new claims on policies it sold years ago to General Motors and other corporations as protection against lawsuits over illnesses caused by asbestos. 
 In 2003, the company stopped selling insurance, dismissed most of its 6,317 employees and went into what insurers call ''runoff,'' a condition in which an insurer does nothing but pay claims. 
 A runoff is almost never good for customers. That is because with no new income from sales and with the prospect of new claims arising, managers have to ration the available money. They generate income by investing that money and they also try to persuade policyholders to settle claims for less than they expected -- in other words, take a financial haircut. If there's money left over after all claims have been resolved, it goes to the insurance company and its owners. 
 The World Trade Center was already in danger of receiving less than the $255 million that a federal court had ruled Royal Sun's subsidiary owed as part of the $4.6 billion that the courts ordered all of the trade center's insurers to pay. Mr. Wolinsky, the lawyer for Mr. Silverstein, said the risk jumped sharply in September when the British parent first moved to abandon the subsidiary. 
 If the British insurer continued doing business in the United States, Mr. Wolinsky acknowledged, it would have the same incentive to pay as little on claims as possible. But paying nothing, or next to nothing, would damage its standing with rating agencies and customers, Mr. Wolinsky said. In self-defense, he said, the British firm would be forced to put more money into the American unit. 
 ''There have been several runoffs in the United States in which a parent has kept the subsidiary going because of the reputational interest,'' Mr. Wolinsky said. 
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said that there would be serious financial problems with the rebuilding effort if Royal failed to pay the full amount. So far, he said, the insurer had paid only $5.6 million of the original $255 million claim. 
 ''It would create a major hole and there's no obvious replacement,'' he said. ''Our rebuilding plan depended on insurers living up to their obligations, which have been affirmed by the Court of Appeals.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); AIRLINES (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Insurance; Area Planning and Renewal; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

COMPANY: ARROWPOINT CAPITAL CORP (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance

TICKER: RSA (LSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster; Charles V Bagli; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2007



175 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Housing Slump Damps Market's Mood

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street pulled back yesterday after new signs of weakness in the housing market prompted investors to look past a rebound in major retailers' sales figures.
 A weak forecast from Toll Brothers, the nation's largest builder of luxury homes, rekindled concerns about whether the slumping housing market would hurt the economy. And HSBC Holdings, the European bank, announced an increase in its provisions for failed mortgage loans, which hurt shares of United States banks.
Investors were hoping for developments that would send stocks higher after days of largely meandering trading, but they did not find it in generally favorable retail sales reports. Wal-Mart topped Wall Street's forecast, although the month's increase was modest. 
 Likewise, the market seemed little moved by the Commerce Department's report that wholesale inventories fell 0.5 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $393.76 billion, or by a Labor Department report that indicated the job market remained solid. 
 The Dow industrials fell 29.24, to 12,637.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.71, at 1,448.31, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 1.83, to 2,488.67. 
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 0.19, or 0.02 percent, to 816.39.
 Energy traders rushed back into the market as frigid temperatures reigned in parts of the United States and after a fire led Occidental Petroleum to shut a field in California. Light crude settled up $2, at $59.71 a barrel, its highest price this year on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 In Europe, both the Bank of England and the European bank left interest rates unchanged, mirroring a decision by the Federal Reserve last week. The European bank hinted, however, that a rate increase might be in the offing.
 Worries about the housing market started with HSBC, which said it was seeing an increase in delinquencies in the American subprime lending market. HSBC, which is traded in American depositary receipts on the New York Stock Exchange, fell $2.44, to $89.78.
 Citigroup fell 51 cents, to $54.44, while JPMorgan Chase was off 28 cents, at $50.93. Adding to concerns about mortgages, the mortgage lender New Century Financial fell $10.92, to $19.24, a 52-week low, after it said it did not properly account for some of the home loans it had to buy back.
 Toll Brothers fell $1.04, to $33.39, after saying its first-quarter home building revenue would fall by 19 percent. Hovnanian Enterprises, another builder, was off $1.55, at $34.74.
 Walt Disney, which owns its namesake theme parks and the ESPN and ABC television networks, reported better-than-expected fiscal first-quarter earnings after strong DVD sales for its ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' films. Disney slipped 19 cents, to $35.29.
 Electronic Data Systems' fourth-quarter profit nearly doubled, and contract signings, which help indicate how strong revenue will be in the future, rose sharply. The company rose 84 cents, to $27.92, after issuing a 2007 forecast that topped Wall Street's expectations.
 Wal-Mart's January same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year, rose 2.2 percent, and the company predicted that same-store sales would rise 1 percent to 2 percent in February. Wal-Mart shares fell 27 cents, to $48.31.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 99 6/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.73 percent, from 4.74 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction for 30-year bonds. (000 omitted in dollar figures)High Price: 99.020High Yield: 4.812Low Yield: 4.770Median Yield: 4.790Total applied for: $22,965,789Accepted: $9,825,627Noncompetitive: $9,175Interest set at: 4 3/4%The 30-year bonds mature February 15, 2037.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); INVENTORIES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOVIE REVENUES (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); EMPLOYMENT (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Credit; Interest Rates; Government Bonds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (73%); WALT DISNEY CO (62%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); HSBA (LSE) (73%); HSB (PAR) (73%); HBC (NYSE) (73%); 0005 (HKSE) (73%); DIS (NYSE) (62%); HOV (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); OXY (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (62%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (62%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (62%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (62%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (54%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



176 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Fall, Hinting at Rebound In Manufacturing

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Inventories at the nation's wholesalers declined in December by the most since May 2003 as sales surged, suggesting a manufacturing rebound in coming months. 
 The 0.5 percent decrease in inventories followed a revised 1.1 percent gain a month earlier that was less than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Sales at wholesalers rose 1.8 percent in December, the most in seven months and twice the increase a month earlier.
The amount of goods on hand at the current sales pace fell to the lowest level since August, suggesting companies are making progress in paring inventories. The figures follow a report last week that showed December factory orders rose by the most in nine months, pointing to production gains.
 ''For manufacturers, it's fairly good news,'' said Adam York, an economist at the Wachovia Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. ''If sales stay up, it means good things for future orders.''
 The value of wholesale inventories fell to $393.8 billion in December from $395.8 billion in November. Sales increased to $337.1 billion from $331.2 billion. 
 Stockpiles of durable goods at wholesalers decreased 0.4 percent in December, the biggest decline since August 2003.
 Inventories of autos fell 2.8 percent, the most since April 1998, while stockpiles of hardware declined by the most since August 2003. Sales of vehicles, computer equipment and hardware rose.
 Inventories of nondurable goods decreased 0.7 percent in December. Sales of nondurable goods rose 2.5 percent.
 In another economic report yesterday, the Labor Department said claims for jobless benefits rose by 3,000, to 311,000, last week, suggesting strength in the labor market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%) United States Economy; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Sales

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Commerce Department

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



177 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 16909 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Feb. 9 - Feb. 15

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.TheaterApproximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.Previews and Openings'ADRIFT IN MACAO' In previews; opens on Tuesday. Primary Stages presents Christopher Durang and Peter Melnick's new musical sendup of the sexy, shadowy world of film noir (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA: SALVAGE' In previews; opens on Feb. 
18. Tom Stoppard's epic trilogy about 19th-century Russian intelligentsia comes to an end with this final installment, which once again stars a vigorous and immense cast, including Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Martha Plimpton and Ethan Hawke. Jack O'Brien directs (2:30). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.'DYING CITY' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on March 4. Lincoln Center presents a new play by Christopher Shinn (''Four'') about a therapist who receives a visit from her deceased husband's twin brother (1:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 362-7600.'THE GAZILLION BUBBLE SHOW' Fan Yan holds the world's record for the largest bubble ever blown, and in an even more amazing feat, he's parlayed this oddball stunt into a bubble-themed, family-friendly show (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.'HOWARD KATZ' In previews; opens on March 2. Roundabout Theater presents a new play by Patrick Marber (''Closer'') about a down-on-his-luck talent agent. Doug Hughes directs. (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.'JOURNEY'S END' In previews; opens on Feb. 22. This English transfer of R. C. Sherriff's early-20th-century antiwar play stars the Tony winners Boyd Gaines and Jefferson Mays (2:40). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.'KING LEAR' Previews start today. Opens on March 7. He played Hamlet. He played Falstaff. It was only a matter of time before Kevin Kline took on this proud, misguided patriarch. James Lapine directs. The Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 260-2400. 'THE MADRAS HOUSE' In previews; opens on Thursday. Yet another modern-sounding play by Harley Granville Barker (''Waste'') comes out of the woodwork: a 1909 drama about business battles, family values and sex (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231.'MARY ROSE' In previews; opens on Feb. 20. Although it can sometimes seem otherwise, J. M. Barrie wrote stories besides ''Peter Pan,'' including this one about a girl who might be a ghost. Tina Landau directs (1:45). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303.'SEALED FOR FRESHNESS' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on February 24. Set in the '60s, Doug Stone's new play features a group of midwestern housewives at a Tupperware party. Comedy ensues (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.'TALK RADIO' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on March 11. Eric Bogosian's darkly funny portrait of a late-night talk show host returns for a Broadway revival starring Liev Schreiber. Robert Falls directs. Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200.'A VERY COMMON PROCEDURE' In previews; opens on Wednesday. Michael Greif (''Rent'') directs MCC Theater's new play about a married woman who has an affair with a doctor (1:20). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200.Broadway'THE APPLE TREE' The amazing Kristin Chenoweth gives Imax-screen-size life to three curvaceous doodles who by rights shouldn't be any larger than figures in the Sunday funnies. Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's 1966 musical, directed by Gary Griffin, shows its age but is given theatrical verve by Ms. Chenoweth, Brian d'Arcy James and Marc Kudisch (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Ben Brantley)'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA' The exhilarating first two installments of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about 19th-century Russian intellectuals dreaming of revolution, these productions pulse with the dizzy, spring-green arrogance and anxiety of a new generation moving as fast as it can toward the future. Jack O'Brien directs a fresh, vigorous and immense cast that includes Brian F. O'Byrne, Jennifer Ehle, Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920s stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, it has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) * 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' The comedy of manners, a form widely believed to be extinct in the American theater, has actually resurfaced on Broadway with all its vital signs intact in Douglas Carter Beane's breezy but trenchant satire about truth and illusion, Hollywood style. With the wonderful Julie White as the movie agent you hate to love (but just can't help it) (2:00). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) * 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood) 'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley) * 'TRANSLATIONS' The estimable Irish director Garry Hynes (a Tony winner for Martin McDonagh's ''Beauty Queen of Leenane'') has assembled an ensemble of an extraordinarily high caliber and consistency for the third major New York production of Brian Friel's 1980 play. Set in rural Ireland in 1833, as the local tongue is being supplanted by the language of the English occupying forces, the play explores the seriocomic truth that language can divide as easily as it unites, and can never hope to translate the rich music in our souls with the delicacy we yearn for. A top-flight Broadway revival (2:15). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) Off Broadway'ALL THAT I WILL EVER BE' In this false-feeling comedy-drama by Alan Ball, creator of ''Six Feet Under,'' a gay hustler undergoes an identity crisis when he finds himself falling for one of his clients. Slick but mostly stale in its analysis of a society afraid of emotional engagement (2:15). The New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'ANON.' Kate Robin's savvy, dark romantic comedy about sexual addiction doesn't live up to its potential (2:10). Atlantic Theater Company, Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore)'DAI (ENOUGH)' Iris Bahr's unnerving one-woman show doesn't have much to add to the Middle East debate, but it sure leaves a lasting impression. Ms. Bahr plays an assortment of characters who have the misfortune of being in a Tel Aviv cafe that is about to be visited by the havoc common to such establishments. The attack is rendered in jarring fashion, repeatedly; you watch the play on pins and needles, waiting for the next burst. Gimmicky? Sure. But viscerally effective (1:40). Culture Project, 55 Mercer Street, at Broome Street, SoHo, (212) 253-9983. (Neil Genzlinger) 'DUTCHMAN' A revival of the poet Amiri Baraka's screed on race and American values, 43 years after its Greenwich Village debut, aims for all the fire and might of a Malcolm X speech but none of the rhetorical elegance. It shouts so loudly that you can't hear a thing (1:00). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, between Barrow and Bedford Streets, West Village (212) 239-6200. (Ginia Bellafante)'EVIL DEAD: THE MUSICAL' This likable horror comedy based on Sam Raimi's gory movies wants to be the next ''Rocky Horror Show.'' To that end, it offers deadpan lyrics, self-referential humor and geysers of stage blood (2:00). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Anita Gates) 'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'THE FEVER' Wallace Shawn performs his provocative monologue about a guilt-riddled bourgeois everyman sweating his way through a moral crisis. The rich, often hypnotic writing draws us into his tortured mindscape, as he shifts between shame over his sense of entitlement and reasoned arguments that sacrifice is unnecessary and pointless. Meanwhile, in the third world, the violence and poverty continue unabated (1:30). Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)'FRANK'S HOME' Peter Weller plays Frank Lloyd Wright in Richard Nelson's dreary bio-drama, which lingers lovingly on its subject's feet of clay while paying arid lip service to his genius (1:45). Playwrights Horizons Mainstage, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 719-4200. (Isherwood) 'GUTENBERG! THE MUSICAL' A very funny if not terribly original satire of musical theater features what must be the worst backers' audition of all time. The excellent duo Jeremy Shamos and Christopher Fitzgerald make the pitch (2:05). The Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men and two women perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Gates)'MEET ME IN ST. LOUIS' This musical is too big for its stage, but the young turn-of-the-last-century sweethearts have great chemistry, and there are four terrific songs (2:00). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Gates) 'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' and 'THE JEW OF MALTA' F. Murray Abraham plays two Elizabethan villains in repertory for the Theater for a New Audience. Mr. Abraham's sinister but still moving Shylock is the dark heart of Darko Tresnjak's chilly, powerful staging of one of Shakespeare's unfunniest comedies. As Barabas in David Herskovits's goofy, postmodern ''Jew of Malta,'' he's the lively center of a carnival that doesn't do justice to Christopher Marlowe's harsh satire on Christian hypocrisy and venality (each 2:30). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'MY MOTHER'S ITALIAN, MY FATHER'S JEWISH AND I'M IN THERAPY' Steve Solomon does skillful impersonations in his one-man show, but some of his jokes are as old as the hills (1:30). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) 'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Genzlinger)'A SPANISH PLAY' The great Zoe Caldwell returns to the New York stage after an absence of a decade, in the fine company of Linda Emond, Denis O'Hare and Larry Pine. That's the good news. The bad? The play. Yasmina Reza's pseudo-philosophical and metatheatrical trifle is utterly forgettable (1:50). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Isherwood) * 'TOYS IN THE ATTIC' Austin Pendleton's fine revival of Lillian Hellman's last play faithfully attacks the corrosive attachments of family. What good is a family, and thus a society, the play implicitly asks, that can only look in the mirror? (2:30) Pearl Theater, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Bellafante)'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban) 'VICTORIA MARTIN: MATH TEAM QUEEN' Must all stage teenagers speak in that exaggerated surfer-dude style in which ''awesome'' and ''totally'' make up about 50 percent of any conversation? Yes, apparently they must, from the evidence presented in this thin comedy, which is about a high school girl who finds herself on the all-male math team. The playwright, Kathryn Walat, seems to have been trying to grab the coattails of a certain spelling-bee-related show. She missed (2:00). The Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger)* 'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WAKE UP MR. SLEEPY! YOUR UNCONSCIOUS MIND IS DEAD!' Richard Foreman's latest film-theater hybrid is a memorial service, of sorts, for the intuitive self, killed by a surface-worshiping world. It is also a dazzling exercise in reality shifting that is as invigorating as it is mournful (1:05). Ontological Theater at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley) Off Off Broadway'AT LEAST IT'S PINK' Bridget Everett and her big, bad attitude co-star in this mini-musical about sex and unsatisfying jobs in the city. Directed by Michael Patrick King (of ''Sex and the City,'' as it happens), who is also the co-author, and with songs written by Ms. Everett and Kenny Mellman, the piano-playing half of Kiki & Herb. Raucous and rude, it's a bit like a one-woman episode of ''Jerry Springer'' (1:20). Ars Nova, , 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Isherwood) 'T J AND DAVE' The comics T. J. Jagodowski and Dave Pasquesi miraculously improvise a one-hour play at every performance. This is an impressive feat of mental athletics, but the results are also observant, complex and frequently enormously funny (1:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates) Long-Running Shows'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' Often more entertaining than the real thing (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley) 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 254 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood) 'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley) Last Chance'ESTIMATED TIME OF ARRIVAL' Five vignettes about finding love and keeping it as immature in attitude as they are thin in substance. The filmmaker Anthony Minghella, whose offering here is a short play called ''Hang Up,'' provides the silliest (1:30). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, (212) 868-4444; closes tomorrow. (Bellafante) 'GONE' In this 90-minute meditation on grief and mourning, composed as a pastiche of texts from Proust, Sophocles, Allen Ginsberg and others, the playwright Charles Mee's habitual postmodern techniques prove utterly inadequate to his subject matter. The piece is fuzzy and diffuse and leaves an impression of evading the suffering it refers to (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200; closes on Sunday. (Jonathan Kalb) 'THE GREAT DIVORCE' The Magis Theater Company makes a creditable effort to explore spiritual matters in this adaptation of C. S. Lewis's story about a bus trip through the afterlife. In well-acted vignettes, characters are led to examine their lives and ruling loves. It's often intriguing, and rarely preachy (1:30). Salvation Army Theater, 315 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444; closes on Sunday. (Genzlinger)'NO GREAT SOCIETY' The brainy experimentalists of Elevator Repair Service provide a madcap and almost dreamlike re-enactment of a 1968 episode of William F. Buckley's ''Firing Line,'' which features Mr. Buckley squaring off with Jack Kerouac (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Zinoman)'THE SCENE' Theresa Rebeck's latest is a sharp-witted, sharp-elbowed comedy about the savage economies of sex and show business in Manhattan. Tony Shalhoub plays an out-of-work actor, Charlie, happily married -- but not really -- to Patricia Heaton's frazzled chat show booker. Enter the femme fatale Clea, played by the gifted Anna Camp, and goodbye, Charlie (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood) MoviesRatings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.'ALPHA DOG' (R, 117 minutes) Based on a true Southern California crime, Nick Cassavetes's entertaining exploitation flick features a lot of attractive, talented young actors shimmying across the screen while embodying the collective parental nightmare. Do you know where your children are? Well, in this film they're getting busy, chilling out, smoking blunts and chugging coolers faster than a toothless wino. Oh, and committing murder. (Manohla Dargis) 'ARTHUR AND THE INVISIBLES' (PG, 94 minutes) Luc Besson serves up a hybrid of live actors and computer-generated figures to tell a not-endearing-enough story about a boy (Freddie Highmore) who shrinks to microscopic size to find some gems and his missing grandfather. Lots of famous names (Madonna, Robert De Niro, David Bowie, Snoop Dogg) lend their voices to the computerized part of the movie, but only briefly near the end does everything click. (Neil Genzlinger)'BABEL' (R, 143 minutes, in English, Spanish, Japanese, Berber, Arabic and sign language) This hugely ambitious movie tells four loosely linked, not quite simultaneous stories set on three different continents, with dialogue in several languages. The themes, to the extent they are decipherable, include loss, fate and the terrible consequences of miscommunication. Written by Guillermo Arriaga and directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, the movie is an intellectual muddle but a visceral tour de force, and the power of the filmmaking almost overcomes the fuzziness of the ideas. Almost. (A. O. Scott)'BECAUSE I SAID SO' (PG-13, 102 minutes) Diane Keaton and Mandy Moore as mother and daughter. What did she say, exactly? Whatever it was, it wasn't as funny as it should have been. (Scott) 'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn misery into entertainment. (Dargis) 'BREAKING AND ENTERING' (R, 119 minutes) This high-toned, feel-bad exercise in liberal guilt comes from Anthony Minghella, who brings the same earnest humorlessness to present-day London that he has brought to the historical past. Jude Law is an architect; Juliette Bi noche is a Bosnian seamstress; and Vera Farmiga provides a glimmer of wit and liveliness as a Russian prostitute who shows up to drink coffee, show her underwear and discuss the themes of the movie. (Scott) 'BURNING ANNIE' (No rating, 95 minutes) This thoroughly postmodern romantic comedy concerns a college student (Gary Lundy) whose obsession with Woody Allen's movie ''Annie Hall'' stunts his ability to live in reality and have normal relationships. While thoroughly professional in its execution, it unfortunately has no life of its own, apart from its fascination with Mr. Allen's film. (Matt Zoller Seitz) 'CATCH AND RELEASE' (PG-13, 124 minutes ) Jennifer Garner is a young woman in Boulder, Colo., coping with the sudden death of her fiance, who she discovers had another, secret life. Although there are signs that the first-time director Susannah Grant (screenwriter of ''Erin Brockovich'') was reaching for something more layered than a formulaic ''chick flick,'' the story never achieves basic credibility. At least its affection for its characters doesn't seem cynical. (Stephen Holden) * 'THE CHILDREN OF MEN' (R, 100 minutes) The end is nigh in this superbly directed political thriller by Alfonso Cuaron about a nervously plausible future. Based on the P. D. James book, the film stars an excellent Clive Owen and features equally sterling support from the actors Michael Caine, Danny Huston and Chiwetel Ejiofior, among others, as well as the great cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki. (Dargis) 'CONSTELLATION' (PG-13, 96 minutes) The writer-director Jordan Walker-Pearlman's drama about a biracial extended family of Alabamans convening to bury a matriarch, Carmel (Gabrielle Union), explores the generational aftershocks of racist violence with frank honesty and manages to be a decent ensemble romantic comedy in the bargain. If only the film weren't so boringly conceived. The powerhouse cast -- which includes David Clennon, Billy Dee Williams and Lesley Anne Warren -- escapes unscathed. (Seitz) * 'THE DEPARTED' (R, 150 minutes) Martin Scorsese's cubistic entertainment about men divided by power, loyalty and their own selves is at once a success and a relief. Based on the crackling Hong Kong thriller ''Infernal Affairs,'' it features fine twinned performances from Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio, and a showboating Jack Nicholson. (Dargis) 'DREAMGIRLS' (PG-13, 131 minutes) The Broadway musical arrives on the screen, capably directed by Bill Condon, ardently acted and sung by Jamie Foxx, Eddie Murphy, Beyonce Knowles and (especially) Jennifer Hudson, but undone by mediocre and anachronistic songs. (Scott)* 'EAST OF HAVANA' (No rating, 82 minutes, in Spanish) With Jauretsi Saizorbitoria and Emilia Menocal as co-directors, this compelling nonfiction feature shows young Cuban rappers exercising the artist's prerogative to tell the truth in a country that muzzles free speech. The filmmakers -- who are Cuban-American themselves -- zero in on a collective called El Cartel. Although the film is set in 2004 -- during the run-up to the International Festival of Rap Cubano and in the shadow of Hurricane Charley -- there's no phony urgency to the setup. The filmmakers are mainly interested in hearing the music and learning about the musicians' compelling personal stories. (Seitz) 'EPIC MOVIE' (PG-13, 86 minutes) A cheap, dumb parody of expensive, dumb movies. (Scott)'FACTORY GIRL' (R, 91 minutes) It's not entirely inappropriate that this film, George Hickenlooper's biography of Edie Sedgwick, the most glamorous of Andy Warhol's so-called superstars, should suggest a magazine layout masquerading as a film. The world through which Sedgwick (Sienna Miller) blazed and burned out was one that lived and died by the camera. It existed to be seen and drooled over. But God help you if you actually lived in it. (Holden) 'IN THE PIT' (No rating, 84 minutes, in Spanish) In his absorbing documentary about work and the transformation of men into laborers, the Mexican filmmaker Juan Carlos Rulfo gets down and dirty, literally and existentially. (Dargis) 'THE ITALIAN' (PG-13, 99 minutes, in Russian) This dark fairy tale from Russia pulls you into a richly atmospheric, persuasively inhabited world teeming with young foundlings and pathos, and upended by one remarkable little boy. (Dargis)'THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND' (R, 121 minutes) Kevin Macdonald paints a queasily enjoyable portrait of the Ugandan dictator Idi Amin from inside the palace walls. Forest Whitaker plays the mad king, while James McAvoy plays the fool. (Dargis)* 'LETTERS FROM IWO JIMA' (R, 141 minutes, in Japanese) Another masterwork from Clint Eastwood's astonishing late period, and one of the best war movies ever. Ken Watanabe is especially fine as the general commanding Japanese troops in the doomed defense of the island of Iwo Jima. (Scott)* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott) * 'Little Miss Sunshine' (R, 101 minutes) A bittersweet comedy of dysfunction that takes place at the terminus of the American dream. The excellent cast includes Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano and that national treasure, Alan Arkin. (Dargis)* 'MAFIOSO' (No rating, 99 minutes, in Italian) This 1962 film, revived by Rialto Pictures, is a rambunctious, astonishing blend of farce, thriller and social satire. The director, Alberto Lattuada, follows an up-and-coming Fiat manager (Alberto Sordi) on a visit from Milan to his native village in Sicily. His homecoming is full of surprises -- painful for him, altogether delightful for the audience. (Scott) 'NOTES ON A SCANDAL' (R, 92 minutes) Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett play a misogynistic game of cat and mouse from which no one emerges unscathed, including the audience. Adapted by Patrick Marber from a novel by Zoe Heller and directed by Richard Eyre. (Dargis) * 'PAN'S LABYRINTH' (R, 119 minutes, in Spanish) Guillermo del Toro's tale of a young girl's ordeal in post-Civil-War fascist Spain is either a fairy tale in the guise of a political allegory or vice versa. In either case it is a moving, enchanting, strange and humane example of popular art at its very best. (Scott) 'THE PAINTED VEIL' (PG-13, 125 minutes) Nicely directed by John Curran, this version of the W. Somerset Maugham novel draws you in by turning a distaff bildungsroman into a fine romance with Naomi Watts and Edward Norton. (Dargis)'THE PURSUIT OF HAPPYNESS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) How you respond to this fairy tale in realist drag may depend on whether you find Will Smith's performances so overwhelmingly winning that you buy the idea that poverty is a function of bad luck and bad choices, and success the result of heroic toil and dreams. (Dargis) 'PUCCINI FOR BEGINNERS' (No rating, 81 minutes) Snappy repartee with the ring of real conversation among people who are never at a loss for a remark is something every self-respecting Manhattan sophisticate imagines can be channeled into a screenplay with the crackle of vintage Woody Allen. That elusive tone is sustained through enough of Maria Maggenti's film ''Puccini For Beginners'' to make this screwball comedy of sexual confusion with lesbian inclinations a rarity. (Holden) * 'THE QUEEN' (PG-13, 103 minutes) Directed by Stephen Frears from a very smart script by Peter Morgan, and starring a magnificent Helen Mirren in the title role, ''The Queen'' pries open a window in the House of Windsor around the time of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, blending fact with fiction. (Dargis) * 'REGULAR LOVERS' (No rating, 175 minutes, in French) Philippe Garrel's tender portrait of late-1960s French youth stars the filmmaker's son, Louis Garrel, as a 20-year-old Parisian struggling through the fires of revolutionary promise and its smoldering remains. Magnificent. (Dargis) 'SERAPHIM FALLS' (R, 111 minutes) Archetypes and symbols solemnly parade through ''Seraphim Falls,'' a handsome, old-fashioned western of few words and heavy meanings that unfolds with the sanctimonious grandeur of a Biblical allegory. In this drama of pursuit, revenge and forgiveness, set in 1868, Pierce Brosnan and Liam Neeson are soldiers who fought on opposite sides of the Civil War and are now engaged in a life-and-death chase that takes them from the Ruby Mountains of Nevada to a final showdown in the desert. (Holden)'THE SITUATION' (No rating, 106 minutes, in English and Arabic) Connie Nielsen stars as a correspondent sniffing around wartime Iraq in a narcoleptic thriller directed by Philip Haas from a screenplay by the journalist Wendell Steavenson. (Dargis) 'SMOKIN' ACES' (R, 107 minutes) Absolute garbage. (Scott)'STOMP THE YARD' (PG-13, 109 minutes) Brotherhood is powerful in this sometimes compelling, sometimes complacent movie about stepping and African-American fraternity life at an Atlanta institution called Truth University. D J (Columbus Short), a street-style dancer, needs to find his place in a university ruled by Gammas and Thetas and stepping. (Rachel Saltz)'TEARS OF THE BLACK TIGER' (No rating, 113 minutes, in Thai) A western weepie from Thailand, filmed in garish color. In spite of the relentless genre pastiche, it has a charming sincerity. (Scott)'AN UNREASONABLE MAN' (No rating, 122 minutes) A very reasonable documentary about the long career of Ralph Nader as a consumer advocate and, more recently and vexingly to some of his former admirers, a perennial presidential candidate. (Scott) 'VENUS' (R, 91 minutes) A modest, diverting, touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest -- avuncular and also erotic -- of an aging actor, played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole. (Scott) * 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott) Film SeriesFRANK BEYER: IN MEMORIAM (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Mr. Beyer, who died in October at 74, was one of the few filmmakers in East Germany able to establish a personality of his own, while occasionally slipping subversive political messages into his work. This two-film program at MoMA includes the internationally successful Holocaust drama ''Jacob the Liar.'' Starring Vlastimil Brodsky as a Jewish man who broadcasts falsely optimistic news from his apartment in a Polish ghetto, ''Jacob'' will be introduced tonight by Professor Barton Byg, the director of the East German film collection at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. (The film will be repeated on Sunday). Tomorrow, Mr. Beyer's ''Naked Among Wolves'' (1963) is set at the Buchenwald concentration camp, where a group of inmates sacrifice everything to protect a small boy, unaware that the Allied liberation forces are approaching. ''Naked'' will be repeated on Thursday. (Through Feb. 22.) Museum of Modern Art, Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)CRITICS CHOICE: GREAT DOCUMENTARIES (Tomorrow and Sunday) This two-month program of recent documentaries chosen and introduced by members of the New York Film Critics Circle continues with Andrew Sarris of The New York Observer presenting Barbet Schroeder's 1974 film ''General Idi Amin Dada'' (tomorrow); Marshall Fine of Star introducing Barbara Kopple's 1991 ''American Dream,'' with Ms. Kopple present (tomorrow, followed by a screening of her own new film, directed with Cecila Peck, ''Shut Up and Sing''); Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly showing Adam Curtis's epic ''The Century of the Self'' (Sunday); and David Edelstein of New York magazine presenting ''Our Brand Is Crisis,'' Rachel Boynton's study of James Carville working on the 2002 Bolivian presidential campaign (Sunday; Ms. Boynton will attend a post-screening discussion.) (Through Feb. 25.) Museum of the Moving Image, 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, www.movingimage.us; $10. (Kehr)FILM COMMENT SELECTS (Wednesday and Thursday) A two-week series of overlooked recent films chosen by the editors of Film Comment, the publication of the Film Society of Lincoln Center. The series begins on Wednesday with Jean-Claude Brisseau's controversial ''Exterminating Angels,'' his loosely autobiographical account of how a French filmmaker was brought before the justice system for taping auditions of young actresses masturbating for his camera. On Thursday it's the local premiere of one of the most accomplished, elegant and exciting action films of the year, Johnnie To's Hong Kong gangster film, ''Exiled,'' in which two gangs of Triad hoodlums cross swords over the lucrative Macau market. (Through Feb. 27.) Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $10. (Kehr)PopFull reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.LILY ALLEN (Tomorrow) A 21-year-old British singer who became a MySpace favorite with deceptively sweet, ska-infused pop songs, Ms. Allen is at her best putting down exes and disagreeable suitors. ''Smile,'' a No. 1 hit in England, is pure schadenfreude, and ''Knock 'Em Out'' is a catalog of snappy answers to bad pickup lines: ''I've got to go 'cause my house is on fire. I've got herpes. No, I've got syphilis.'' At 6:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Ben Sisario)APPLES IN STEREO (Thursday) This Denver band made a splash in the mid-'90s with power-pop songs in loud primary colors, like the Beach Boys reborn as a New Wave act. After five years of silence, they have a new album, ''New Magnetic Wonder,'' released by the actor Elijah Wood's record label, Simian. It makes one thing clear: it wasn't really the Beach Boys or the Beatles that Apples in Stereo was emulating all those years; it was Electric Light Orchestra. With Casper and the Cookies, and Cause Commotion. At 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $15. (Sisario)* ARCADE FIRE (Tuesday through Thursday) Three years ago, with its jubilantly clamorous album ''Funeral,'' this guitars, violins and accordion collective from Montreal performed a kind of musical miracle: making navel-gazing indie-rock seem not only fresh and sincere but also deeply meaningful. Its brilliant second record, ''Neon Bible'' (Merge), to be released next month, is darker and more preoccupied but nearly as cathartic, and next week the band begins a five-night stand at the Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village. At 7:30 p.m., 55 Washington Square South, (212) 260-4700, bowerypresents.com; sold out. (Sisario)DAVID BROMBERG (Tuesday) Mr. Bromberg can play just about anything with strings -- guitar, dobro, mandolin, fiddle -- and his knowledge of American music spans blues, bluegrass, country and rock. He also has a gift for elaborate verbal riffs that turn his long-suffering blues into comedy. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $25. (Jon Pareles)BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) This ageless queen of genteel piano bar jazz plays everything from Sondheim to Monk with grace and authority. She sings too. Her rendition of ''Old Friends,'' from ''Merrily We Roll Along,'' will bring tears to your eyes. At 2 p.m., Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331, algonquinhotel.com; $58, with brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)JUDY COLLINS (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Collins, a folk songbird for seemingly longer than anybody else has been a folk songbird, begins a three-week cabaret engagement at the Cafe Carlyle. At 8:45 p.m., Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600, thecarlyle.com; $100 cover at tables, $65 at the bar. (Sisario) * 'CONCIERTO DEL AMOR' (Tomorrow) Someday all Valentine's Day music will be Latin pop, which revels in both the passionate and the treacly. This annual concert at Madison Square Garden features two salsa giants: Victor Manuelle, a leading young sonero, or improvising singer, who is not above dipping into reggaeton to score a hit, and Gilberto Santa Rosa, an unswerving traditionalist for three decades. Also on the bill are the great Latin jazz pianist Eddie Palmieri; Don Omar, a reggaeton star; the merengue regulars Elvis Crespo and Millie Quezada; and the Mexican pop duo Sin Bandera. At 8 p.m., (212) 307-7171 or (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $59.50 to $129.50. (Sisario) MARSHALL CRENSHAW (Wednesday) Mr. Crenshaw's songs seem to roll off the guitar in a casual blend of pre-1970s styles -- folk-rock, surf-rock, country and above all the Beatles -- that put melody first. With his winsome tenor, he delves into the ways love goes right and goes wrong, from distant yearning to the aftermath of infidelity, hiding turmoil within the chiming tunes. With Matt Roach. At 8 p.m., the Tap Bar at the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Pareles)* PACO DE LUCIA (Tomorrow and Sunday) One of the world's greatest guitarists, Mr. de Lucia is both a traditionalist and an adventurer, dipping into jazz and salsa but always retaining a solid grounding in flamenco. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7000, carnegiehall.org; sold out. Sunday at 7 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; $22 to $78 . (Sisario)* DIAMANDA GALAS (Wednesday) Though she is invariably dressed in black, with her face in witchy streaks of makeup, Ms. Galas needs only her voice to terrify and seduce. She slides from a low, sensual growl to painful yet musically precise shrieks, and has a vast repertory; for two ''Valentine's Day Massacre'' sets, she will tear apart love songs by Peggy Lee, Marlene Dietrich, Chet Baker and Edith Piaf. At 6:30 and 9:30 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $20. (Sisario)GIRL TALK, PARTS AND LABOR (Tonight) Girl Talk is a Pittsburgh musician named Gregg Gillis who, when not on his computer job at a medical instrument company, makes a zany and frequently hilarious kind of short-attention-span dance-pop by stitching together brief samples from hit songs. He shares a bill with Parts and Labor, a squally Brooklyn three-piece that manages the tricky task of being both anarchic and anthemic. At 9, Studio B, 259 Banker Street, between Meserole Avenue and Calyer Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-1880, clubstudiob.com; $15. (Sisario)* GYUTO MONKS (Sunday) The Gyuto monks of Tibet studied Buddhism and meditated for five centuries in their college in Lhasa before the Chinese invasion of 1959. One-tenth of the 900 monks followed the Dalai Lama into exile, and they re-established their monastery in India. They chant as they meditate with a technique that produces multiple overtones over their deep bass notes: an otherworldly sound that seeks to heal the world, punctuated by the clang of cymbals and the roar of long trumpets. At 7 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 545-7536, the-townhall-nyc.org or worldmusicinstitute.org; $35 and $40. (Pareles)HINDER (Tuesday) This Oklahoma band has little to distinguish it from the dozen or two other well-coiffed, heavily commercialized groups being pushed on hard-rock radio -- some day try a taste test of Hinder, Nickelback, Three Days Grace and Fuel -- except for its hit ''Lips of an Angel.'' An unfairly addictive power ballad about falling back in love with your ex (''My girl's in the next room/Sometimes I wish she was you''), it helped make Hinder's ''Extreme Behavior'' (Universal) the 10th-best-selling album of 2006. With Finger Eleven and Black Stone Cherry. At 7:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; sold out. (Sisario)KIKI AND HERB (Sunday) A few years ago this brilliantly perverse cabaret duo played their farewell show at Carnegie Hall. Then came a run on Broadway. And some late-night gigs at Joe's Pub. And the annual, inimitable Christmas show. (Highlight: a medley of ''Smells Like Teen Spirit'' and ''Frosty the Snowman.'') Kiki and Herb can't stay away from the stage, and New York is the better for it. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $20. (Sisario) LIFETIME (Tomorrow) In most ways, this New Jersey band was standard-issue 1990s hardcore punk, with lots of slashing guitars and angry, accusatory lyrics. But in a genre that is virtually uniform in sound as well as attitude, Lifetime stood out for slightly more attention to melody and a slightly more uplifting tone, and it became an important influence on emo. The band reunited recently after almost a decade, and just released a new, self-titled album on Decaydance, the label run by Pete Wentz of Fall Out Boy. With World/Inferno Friendship Society and Crime in Stereo. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)LINCOLN CENTER'S AMERICAN SONGBOOK (Tonight and tomorrow night) Now in its ninth season, this series has greatly expanded from its origins as a home for the midcentury pantheon of Harold Arlen, Richard Rodgers and the like. Tonight features the 36-year-old theater composer Jason Robert Brown (''Parade,'' ''Urban Cowboy''), and tomorrow Betty Buckley is joined by Kenny Werner and Quintessence for some music that is actually a little underrepresented in this series: classics of the American songbook. Tonight at 8:30, tomorrow night at 8:30 and 10:30, Allen Room, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; sold out tonight, $40 to $90 tomorrow (8:30 show sold out). (Sisario)RAUL MALO ( Wednesday and Thursday) The leader of the Mavericks, Mr. Malo has never let himself be bound by the strictures of country. His music looks back to the 1950s and '60s with a clear-eyed nostalgia, and he has the soaring tenor voice of a dedicated Roy Orbison fan. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $30 (Wednesday sold out). (Pareles)MIDLAKE (Tonight) This Texas quintet specializes in a lilting acoustic folk-rock sprinkled with soft piano and winds. With the Czars and St. Vincent. At 8:30, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)MOONEY SUZUKI (Thursday) One of the sharpest and loudest garage-rock bands in town -- in sound as well as in dress -- Mooney Suzuki draws on the frantic energy of mid-'60s British mod groups like the Who, as well as on the bruising blues-rock of Led Zeppelin. With General & Majors and Johan. At 8:30 p.m., Rebel, 251 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 695-2747, rebelnyc.com; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Sisario)SHIYANI NGCOBO (Tonight) Making his American debut, this singer and guitarist is a master of maskanda, a Zulu folk style in South Africa that relies on virtuosic guitar picking and arrangements of fiddle and concertina that sound comfortingly country. At 8:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7000, carnegiehall.org; $30 to $42. (Sisario)STEVE RILEY AND THE MAMOU PLAYBOYS (Sunday) The accordionist Steve Riley leads one of the best bands from the Louisiana bayous. It reaches back to some of the oldest Cajun tunes and can play them in traditional style, but it's not afraid of swamp-rock or a touch of country, either, and this weekend comes to New York for a Mardi Gras show. At 7:30 p.m., with a free zydeco dance lesson at 6:30, Connolly's, 121 West 45th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-7597 or (212) 597-5126, letszydeco.com; $22. (Pareles) SLAYER (Thursday) One of the architects of modern heavy metal, Slayer emerged in the early 1980s with a hellish, claustrophobic sound -- all foreboding skies and tormented vocals, delivered at whip-crack speeds -- and has stuck steadfastly to it. With Unearth. At 7:30 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; sold out. (Sisario) ROD STEWART (Wednesday) His four Great American Songbook albums may not represent the most distinguished readings of those songs -- ditto his Bob Seger and Creedence Clearwater Revival covers on the recent ''Still the Same Great Rock Classics of Our Time'' (J) -- but when Rod Stewart lets go of his smugness, that whisky tenor of his can be a powerful interpretive instrument. Doesn't happen often, though. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 307-7171 or (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $55 to $129.50. (Sisario) VETIVER, VASHTI BUNYAN (Tomorrow) Last weekend Ms. Bunyan, an obscure light in the 1960s British folk scene with an impossibly fragile voice, and Vetiver, a hushed neofolk band that is one of the inheritors of her tradition, played at Carnegie Hall as part of David Byrne's Perspectives series. Their small sound was somewhat dwarfed by the place, but this gig, at Southpaw in Brooklyn, is more their size. At 9 p.m., 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $15. (Sisario)JazzFull reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.ERNESTINE ANDERSON (Tuesday through Thursday) Ms. Anderson, a soulful and underrated jazz singer, reunites with another estimable veteran, the reliably gallant tenor saxophonist and flutist Frank Wess. (Through Feb. 18.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Nate Chinen)SAM BARDFELD'S STUFF SMITH PROJECT (Thursday) Mr. Bardfeld, a violinist with a wide-ranging resume, pays tribute to a swing-era hero of his instrument with help from the pianist Anthony Coleman, the bassist Sean Conly and the guitarist and vocalist Doug Wamble. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)ELI DEGIBRI QUARTET (Sunday and Tuesday) An Israeli saxophonist with a taste for burnished sonorities, Eli Degibri explores his own music with help from the bassist Ben Street, the drummer Jeff Ballard and either the pianist Aaron Goldberg (on Sunday) or the guitarist Jonathan Kreisberg (on Tuesday). Sunday at midnight, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $10; $5 for students, with a $10 minimum. Tuesday at 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)JOHN ELLIS QUARTET (Tonight) John Ellis is a tenor and soprano saxophonist drawn to loose-limbed funk, but he also has an interest in spacious modern jazz. His quartet features a guitarist with similar inclinations, the versatile and thoughtful Mike Moreno. At midnight, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $10; $5 for students; with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)VICTOR GOINES QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) While best known as a big-band player and educator, the multireedist Victor Goines knows how to put together a solid combo. Here he cedes a portion of the spotlight to a guest singer, Vanessa Rubin. (Through Feb. 18.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)AYELET ROSE GOTTLIEB (Tuesday) Ms. Gottlieb is a commanding vocalist whose recent album ''Mayim Rabim'' (Tzadik) featured scriptural texts in the original Hebrew. She appears here with stalwart accompanists, like Michael Winograd on clarinet and Loren Stillman on saxophone. At 8 and 9:30 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)ONAJE ALLAN GUMBS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Gumbs, a pianist with extensive credits in film and television, celebrates the release of his latest album, ''Sack Full of Dreams'' (Showplace). At 9:30, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)BARRY HARRIS (Tuesday) A crisp and courtly pianist firmly in the bebop idiom, Mr. Harris performs a recital for the Abby Whiteside Foundation, the venerable piano institution for which he is an instructor. At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $35. (Chinen)VINCENT HERRING (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Herring, a voluble alto saxophonist, rolls out a locomotive brand of post-bop with colleagues like the pianist Gerard D'Angelo and the drummer Carl Allen. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)WILLIAM HOOKER QUARTET (Monday) Strenuous abstraction, courtesy of the drummer William Hooker, the trumpeter Matt Lavelle, the multireedist Joe Rigby and the bassist Todd Nicholson. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)ARTHUR KELL QUARTET (Tomorrow) On his last album, ''Traveller'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the bassist and composer Arthur Kell pursued a searching strain of modern jazz. He has worthy partners here in the alto saxophonist David Binney, the guitarist Brad Shepik and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. At 8 p.m., Tillie's of Brooklyn, 248 DeKalb Avenue, at Vanderbilt Avenue, Fort Greene, (718) 783-6140, tilliesofbrooklyn.com; cover, $5. (Chinen)* GUILLERMO KLEIN (Thursday) Mr. Klein, a restlessly creative Argentine pianist and composer now based in Barcelona, returns to New York for the premiere of ''Tetris Suite,'' featuring Mr. Klein and Jorge Rossy on dual pianos; ''Diminished Suite,'' based on a diminished scale; and ''Present Suite,'' for a group of musicians including the tenor saxophonist Bill McHenry and the guitarist Ben Monder. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330, merkinconcerthall.org; $25; $20 in advance. (Chinen)ADAM LANE QUARTET (Wednesday) The bassist Adam Lane leads a free-form ensemble consisting of Avram Fefer on reeds, Reut Regev on trombone and Igal Foni on drums. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10 per set. (Chinen)MICHAEL MARCUS AND TED DANIEL (Sunday) The prospect of unaccompanied clarinet-trumpet duets may not sound inherently promising, but Mr. Marcus (clarinet) and Mr. Daniel (trumpet) make it work on ''Duology'' (Boxholder), an effervescent new album. At 9 p.m., Jimmy's 43 Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)BEN MONDER (Sunday) Mr. Monder is an uncommonly proficient guitarist, and an assertive though introspective one; he leads a trio with the bassist Chris Lightcap and the drummer Mark Ferber. At 9 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800, bar4.net; cover, $5. (Chinen) * NUBLU ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) To celebrate the release of its self-titled debut on Nublu Records, this ambient avant-garde groove ensemble, conducted by the sagacious Butch Morris, headlines a concert with half-hour opening sets from the coolly cosmopolitan bands Brazilian Girls, Kudu and Love Trio. Doors open at 7 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $17. (Chinen)MILES OKAZAKI (Sunday) Mr. Okazaki, a confident and well-traveled guitarist and composer, revisits music from ''Mirror,'' his recent self-released album, with help from the alto saxophonist David Binney, the multireedist Christof Knoche, the bassist Thomas Morgan and the drummer Dan Weiss. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)JEAN-MICHEL PILC (Tonight) Mr. Pilc's piano playing has a joyous bounce no matter how dark or furious the extemporization, as he is likely to demonstrate in a solo recital at Fazioli Salon, a series at the Klavierhaus piano workshop. At 8 p.m., Klavierhaus, 211 West 58th Street, Midtown, (212) 245-4535, pianoculture.com; $25. (Chinen)CHRIS POTTER'S UNDERGROUND (Tuesday through Thursday) The saxophonist Chris Potter has an improvisational approach that's intellectual and athletic in equal measure. He dives headlong into tumultuous fusion with this group, featuring Adam Rogers on guitar, Craig Taborn on keyboards and Nate Smith on drums. (Through Feb. 18.) At 9 and 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)WALLACE RONEY (Tonight) Mr. Roney has lately been advancing a variety of Afrocentric futurism inherited and adapted from his trumpet mentor, Miles Davis. His working band includes Robert Irving on piano, Clarence Seay on bass, Eric Allen on drums, Val on turntables, and Antoine Roney, his brother, on saxophone. At 8, Abrons Arts Center, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101, henrystreet.org; $25. (Chinen)JIM ROTONDI QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Jim Rotondi is an accomplished trumpeter with a predilection for hard bop; his band includes the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander, the pianist David Hazeltine, the bassist John Webber and the drummer Joe Farnsworth. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen) * SCULPTURED SOUNDS MUSIC FESTIVAL (Sunday) This artist-run avant-garde concert series continues with Great Friends, a dream-team collective of Billy Harper and Sonny Fortune on saxophones, Stanley Cowell on piano, Reggie Workman on bass and Billy Hart on drums; and a quintet led by the accomplished drummer Rashied Ali. At 7 p.m., St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street, (212) 642-5277, sculpturedsounds.com; suggested donation, $20. (Chinen)TODD SICKAFOOSE AND JENNY SCHEINMAN (Tonight) Mr. Sickafoose, a bassist, and Ms. Scheinman, a violinist, share an attraction to streamlined harmonic progressions and texture-conscious grooves. Their rhythm section here consists of Mike Gamble on guitar and Ches Smith on drums. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)JANIS SIEGEL (Wednesday) On ''A Thousand Beautiful Things'' (Telarc), Ms. Siegel explores the same brand of popular eclecticism she enjoys in Manhattan Transfer, but in a way that's a few degrees less cloying. She has good company on Valentine's Day: Edsel Gomez on piano, Edmar Castaneda on harp, Ben Street on bass and Steve Hass on drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)TESSA SOUTER (Tonight and Wednesday) Ms. Souter, a singer of broad imagination, regularly works with the guitarist Spiros Exaras and the percussionist Kahlil Kwame Bell. On Valentine's Day her cohort expands to include the cellist Dana Leong, the bassist Essiet Essiet and the drummer Marco Pellitteri. Tonight at 6, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover. Wednesday at 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)E. J. STRICKLAND QUINTET (Thursday) The drummer E. J. Strickland -- like his brother Marcus, who joins him here on tenor saxophone -- hails from a generation fluent in jazz conventions but not beholden to them. The alto saxophonist Jaleel Shaw, the pianist Luis Perdomo and the bassist Hans Glawischnig round out his quintet. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $12. (Chinen)TIERNEY SUTTON (Tuesday) With her new album, ''On the Other Side'' (Telarc), Ms. Sutton applies her pristine vocal style to a bouquet of songs about happiness or unhappiness in love. Her emotional oscillation is purposeful, sometimes transparently so: the Harold Arlen tune ''Get Happy'' appears first as a puzzling dirge and then, more convincingly, as a fizzy delight. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)JOHN TCHICAI QUINTET (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday) The Danish saxophonist and clarinetist John Tchicai performs tonight and tomorrow with a version of the band heard on ''Good Night Songs'' (Boxholder), his most recent album; on Sunday and Wednesday he joins forces with the bassist Adam Lane. Tonight and tomorrow night at 9 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. Sunday at 7 p.m., Jimmy's 43 Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. Wednesday at 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)YOSVANY TERRY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Terry, a dynamic saxophonist and percussionist, chases post-bop ideals without abandoning the pull of his native Cuba. For his ''Afro Cuban Roots,'' a new piece inspired by Yoruban cultural traditions, he features the accomplished bata drummer Orlando (Puntilla) Rios and the dancer Felix (Pupi) Insua, along with an ensemble that includes Osmany Paredes on piano and Yunior Terry, Mr. Terry's brother, on bass. At 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15. (Chinen)TORN + BERNE + RAINEY = CHOURMO (Tonight) The resourcefully subversive guitarist David Torn recently recorded an album for ECM Records featuring his longtime colleagues Tim Berne, on alto saxophone, and Tom Rainey, on drums. Until its release this spring, the only way to hear the music is in person, at one of Mr. Torn's infrequent performances. At 9 and 10:30, Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, near Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested donation, $5. (Chinen)* VANDERMARK 5 (Wednesday and Thursday) The Chicago-based multireedist Ken Vandermark applies a go-anywhere ethos to his signature ensemble, along with a dash of punk-rock cohesion. His co-conspirators are the saxophonist Dave Rempis, the cellist Fred Lonberg-Holm, the bassist Kent Kessler and the drummer Tim Daisy. Wednesday at 9:30 p.m., Pianos, 158 Ludlow Street, at Stanton Street, Lower East Side, (212) 505-3733, pianosnyc.com; cover, $15. Thursday at 8 p.m., Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; cover, $12. (Chinen)MATT WILSON'S ARTS AND CRAFTS (Tonight through Sunday night) ''The Scenic Route'' (Palmetto) is the latest appealing album by this ebullient band, led by the drummer Matt Wilson and featuring the trumpeter Terell Stafford, the pianist and organist Gary Versace and the bassist Dennis Irwin. At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25; $20 on Sunday. (Chinen)ClassicalFull reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.Opera'CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA' AND 'PAGLIACCI' (Tomorrow) Salvatore Licitra again plays iron-man tenor, singing both ends of this beloved double-header. Dolora Zajick and Krassimira Stoyanova are the noteworthy sopranos. At 1:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Bernard Holland) * 'EUGENE ONEGIN' (Tonight and Tuesday night) For her first Met performances in the Russian role of Tatiana, the impressionable heroine of Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' the soprano Renee Fleming will be inspired, no doubt, and possibly a little daunted by her Russian colleagues in this revival of Robert Carsen's 1997 production. The baritone Dmitri Hvorostovsky sings Onegin, a role he seems born to portray, and Valery Gergiev will conduct. The Mexican-born tenor Ramon Vargas sings Lenski. This looks to be a highlight of the season. At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Anthony Tommasini)* 'JENUFA' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) The charismatic Finnish soprano Karita Mattila is riveting in the title role of Janacek's grim, insightful and, by the end, consoling Czech opera ''Jenufa,'' the Met's revival of its 2003 production. Ms. Mattila's gleaming voice, with its cool Nordic colorings, and vibrant sensuality are ideal for this character, a foolishly trusting young woman in a Moravian village who has become pregnant by her cousin, the town rake who owns the local mill. The ageless German soprano Anja Silja is at once terrifying and pitiable as Jenufa's stern stepmother, Kostelnicka. Jiri Belohlavek conducts a sensitive and sweeping account of Janacek's teeming score, presented in its 1908 version. (The mezzo-soprano Judith Forst sings Kostelnicka in tomorrow evening's performance.) At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $42 to $220 tomorrow, $15 to $175 on Wednesday. (Tommasini) 'I PURITANI' (Thursday) The reason the Met dusted off its stodgy, old 1976 production of Bellini's ''Puritani'' was to present the glamorous and brilliant soprano Anna Netrebko as Elvira. For the final performance on Thursday, the admirable soprano Elizabeth Futral takes over for Ms. Netrebko, not an enviable assignment. Still, Ms. Futral is an impressive vocalist and an exciting interpreter of the Bel Canto repertory. She made her 1999 Met debut in the title role of Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' and recently created the role of Princess Yueyang in Tan Dun's ''First Emperor.'' At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Tommasini)'LA TRAVIATA' (Monday) For its revival of Verdi's ''Traviata,'' in Franco Zeffirelli's extravagant 1998 production, the Met is rotating casts, with three sopranos sharing the role of Violetta this season. Mary Dunleavy, who made her company debut in 1993, takes over the role on Monday night, with the tenor Jose Luis Duval as Alfredo, and the baritone Charles Taylor as Germont. Carlo Rizzi conducts. At 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Tommasini)Classical MusicAMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Tonight) Leon Botstein's latest interesting program looks at conductors who compose, including George Szell, Paul Kletzki, Harold Farberman and Leonard Bernstein. At 8, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $27 to $55. (Holland) BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) Tonight on the barge, the pianist Jonathan Irving plays Schubert Impromptus and the Sonata in A minor (D. 784). Tomorrow and Sunday the DaPonte String Quartet plays Beethoven's Quartet in F (Op. 135), Gershwin's ''Lullaby'' and Wolf's ''Italian Serenade.'' The program concludes with Dvorak's Quintet for Piano and Strings in A (Op. 81), for which the quartet will be joined by Michael Kimmelman, a pianist and chief art critic (and a former music critic) of The New York Times. On Valentine's Day -- champagne and chocolates included -- the pianist Steven Beck plays Liszt, Chopin and Beethoven, and on Thursday, the program includes piano trios by Brahms and Beethoven. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m.; and Wednesday at 7 p.m., Fulton Ferry landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35 tonight and Thursday, $40 tomorrow and Sunday, $50 on Wednesday. (Vivien Schweitzer) * BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Monday) Not quite an oratorio, nearly an opera, Berlioz's ''Damnation de Faust'' skips back and forth between the opera house and the concert hall, and more and more frequently, it seems, in recent years. The nonstaged option allows the listener a novel-reader's freedom of imagination and perhaps a deeper immersion in the colors of the score, probably mined deeply in the reading of James Levine. Heading his cast is the veteran bass-baritone Jose van Dam as Mephistopheles. Yvonne Naef, Paul Groves and Andrew Gangestad are the other accomplished soloists, backed up by the Tanglewood Festival Chorus. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $39 to $127. (Anne Midgette) CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday and Tuesday) For what it is calling its Winter Festival, the Chamber Music Society is exploring English music, with an emphasis on works composed between 1900 and 1930. On Sunday the ensemble begins a bit earlier, with a Fantasia by Purcell, and then offers music by Vaughan Williams, Bliss and Warlock. The centerpiece on Tuesday is the Vaughan Williams song cycle ''On Wenlock Edge,'' to be sung by Russell Thomas, the tenor, on a program that also includes works by Goossens, Ireland and Bax. Sunday at 5 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; $28 to $50. (Allan Kozinn)* CONTINUUM (Tuesday) The Israel Philharmonic recently played two concerts in New York without offering music by a single Israeli composer. For that, you have to turn to Continuum, which is looking at Israeli music, with an emphasis on works by immigrants from the former Soviet Union. The composers represented include Josef Bardanashvili, Michael Liebman, Benjamin Yusupov, Uri Brener, Valentin Bibik and Hana Ajiashvili. At 8 p.m., the J.C.C. in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, (646) 505-5708, continuum-ensemble-ny.org; $15. (Kozinn)PHILIP GLASS AND WENDY SUTTER (Tuesday) As part of the Baryshnikov Arts Center's Movado Hour series of free, informal concerts, the composer and pianist Philip Glass and the cellist Wendy Sutter are collaborating on a program of Mr. Glass's music, including the premiere of his ''Songs and Poems'' for cello. At 7 p.m., 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (917) 934-4966, baryshnikovdancefoundation.org; free, but reservations are required. (Kozinn)HUNGARIAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Tomorrow) Welcome to the brave new world of arts sponsorship in the ex-East Bloc: while on this 100-year-old orchestra's first United States tour, its conductor announced during a concert that the ensemble had lost its main sponsor and would be dissolving. (Distressed spinmeisters countered that it would only be shrinking into a chamber ensemble.) So tomorrow may be both a first and a last chance for New Yorkers to hear this particular survivor of Central European tradition in Liszt's Second Piano Concerto (with Paavali Jumppanen), Dvorak's mighty Eighth Symphony and Mussorgsky's ''Night on Bald Mountain.'' At 8 p.m., Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org; $48 to $90; $3 off for 65+. (Midgette) * JOHANNES STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow) The members of this acclaimed quartet make time in their busy outside careers to perform together. Peter Stumpf is the principal cellist of the Los Angles Philharmonic, and C. J. Chang is the principal violist of the Philadelphia Orchestra. The violinists are both based in New York: Soovin Kim, the first American to win the Paganini Violin Competition in 24 years, and Jessica Lee, who won the 2005 Concert Artists Guild International Competition. Music lovers can hear them at a bargain price tomorrow when the essential Peoples' Symphony Concerts presents the quartet in works by Beethoven, Schubert and Mozart. At 8 p.m., Washington Irving High School, Irving Place at 16th Street, Manhattan, (212) 586-4680, pscny.org; $9. (Tommasini)JENNIFER KOH (Wednesday) The dynamic violinist Jennifer Koh, who has proven her mettle in repertory from Bach to Ligeti, is a vigorous champion of new music. On Wednesday she will perform the New York premiere of Jennifer Higdon's ''String Poetic,'' which was written for Ms. Koh and the pianist Reiko Uchida, her frequent collaborator. The lively program also includes Janacek's Sonata, Schubert's Sonatina in D and Schumann's Sonata No. 2. Ms. Koh will also perform excerpts from Kurtag's ''Signs, Games and Messages.'' At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $40; $25 for age 35 and under. (Schweitzer) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM ARTISTS IN CONCERT (Tonight) The Metropolitan Museum's resident chamber group -- Andrew Armstrong, pianist; Colin Jacobsen and Yosuke Kawasaki, violinists; Nicholas Cords, violist; and Edward Arron and Raman Ramakrishnan, cellists -- opens its season with an eclectic program. Included are a Purcell Fantasia, a Boccherini String Quintet, the Brahms F minor Piano Quintet and a recent work, ''Viaggio in Italia,'' by the Italian post-Minimalist Giovanni Sollima. At 8, (212) 570-3949, metmuseum.org; $30. (Kozinn)* MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA (Tuesday and Wednesday) The Finnish conductor Osmo Vanska has helped make the Minnesota Orchestra one of the most compelling in America right now, not least with a vivid Beethoven symphony cycle on CD that's satisfying, fresh, and continuing. (Symphonies 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 have all been released.) Beethoven's delightful and underplayed Fourth Symphony and his classic Fifth feature on consecutive nights in concerts that balance them against the fourth and fifth symphonies of Mr. Vanska's compatriot Jean Sibelius. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $26 to $88 (Midgette)NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Today, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday) Piano fans, rejoice. This weekend offers a chance to hear the conductor Alan Gilbert, whose sobriquet is morphing from ''rising'' to simply ''hot,'' in Debussy's ''Images''; a piece called ''Parodos'' by Daniel Bortz, a Swedish composer; and Beethoven's first piano concerto with the soloist Lars Vogt. Next week, Lorin Maazel leads off the orchestra's Brahms festival with the Serenade No. 1 and the first piano concerto as played by Emanuel Ax. Today at 11 a.m., tomorrow at 8 p.m., Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $24 to $99. (Midgette) ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S (Thursday) The British conductor Roger Norrington returns to St. Luke's with music by Goldmark and Brahms. The American violinist Hilary Hahn plays Goldmark's elaborate A minor Concerto, and Mr. Norrington conducts the Brahms Fourth Symphony. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $23 to $ 75. (Holland)JOHN SCOTT (Tomorrow) Mr. Scott, the organist and director of music at St. Thomas Church, plays the third concert in his 10-part series exploring the complete organ works of Buxtehude, in honor of the forthcoming 300th anniversary of the composer's death. Built in 1996 in a style similar to those of north Germany and the Netherlands in the 17th and 18th centuries, St. Thomas's Taylor & Boody organ is ideal for such a venture. At 4 p.m., Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 757-7013; saintthomaschurch.org; free. (Schweitzer) DanceFull reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.* BIG DANCE THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow) Annie-B Parsons and Paul Lazar, Big's wildly imaginative choreographer and director, explore the stories of the contemporary novelist Masuji Ibuse just in time for the start of Japan Society's celebration of its yearlong centennial. Tonight at 7:30, tomorrow at 3 and 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org; $35. (Jennifer Dunning) * CHEZ BUSHWICK PRESENTS (Tomorrow) Performing in this cheerfully subversive series will be Jennifer Allen, Malinda Allen, American Bob, David Hammons and Dean Moss, with conversation from Barbara Bryan and Kim Doegler, the new directors of Movement Research. At 8 p.m., Grace Exhibition Space, 840 Broadway, between Ellery Street and Park Avenue, Bushwick, Brooklyn, (718) 594-0642, gracespace.multiply.com; $5. (Dunning)CHINESE NEW YEAR SPECTACULAR (Wednesday and Thursday) Well, it certainly does sound spectacular, celebrating the Year of the Pig with dance and music presentations that include a multimedia depiction of heaven, complete with angels, fairies and gods drifting by on clouds. (Through Feb. 17.) Wednesday at 8 p.m., Thursday at 11 a.m. and 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $42.50 to $184.50. (Dunning) DanceBrazil (Tuesday through Thursday) Jelon Vieira, the artistic director of this vibrant company from Bahia, has been particularly successful at fusing the techniques of capoeira, the Afro-Brazilian martial art, with modern dance forms. To celebrate the company's 30th anniversary, he has created a new work, ''The Ritual of the Roda,'' that traces the history of capoeira; the kickboxing fireworks artfully transformed into dance should be well worth seeing. (Through Feb. 18.) Tuesday and Wednesday at 7.30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $42; Joyce members, $32. (Roslyn Sulcas) DANCEWAVE'S KIDS COMPANY (Tomorrow and Sunday) These child performers will dance pieces created by children throughout the city, as well as choreography by Twyla Tharp and Andrea Woods. At 3 p.m., Kumble Theater, Long Island University, Brooklyn Campus, Flatbush and DeKalb Avenues, downtown Brooklyn, (718) 488-1624, www.kumbletheater.org; $20; $12 for children 12 and younger. (Dunning)* D D DORVILLIER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Dorvillier describes her new ''Nottthing Is Importanttt'' as a cinema performance, incorporating video and a ''dark and sound environment.'' Whatever all that means, Ms. Dorvillier's wild, intuitive and visual imagination is usually reason enough to take the plunge. Tonight at 10:30, tomorrow at 8, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, Ext. 11, thekitchen.org; $12. (Dunning) Alex Escalante (Thursday) A new trio, ''Swallow Sand,'' by Mr. Escalante, has a live score by Jon Moniaci. According to press materials, the piece features an installation of hundreds of copper tin cans and ''investigates social desensitization bought on by a hyper frenetic environment.'' Would that be New York? (Through next Friday.) At 7.30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 691-6500, dtw.org; $20; $12 for students, artists and 65+. (Sulcas) KINETIC DANCE THEATER (Sunday) Directed by Joanna and Ryan Greer, the company will perform ''I'll Take Summer,'' a new cabaret-dance piece that celebrates that sunny season. (Repeated next Friday at 8 p.m. and Feb. 19 at 7 p.m.) At 8 p.m., Don't Tell Mama, 343 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 757-0788, kineticdancetheater.org; $10 cover, with a two-drink minimum. (Dunning)Regina Nejman & Company (Thursday) Ms. Nejman's new ''Frozen Baby'' is described as a ''dance installation,'' which might indicate that there won't be too much dancing. But Ms. Nejman is a choreographer who revels in sheer physicality, and there should be plenty of high-energy movement to watch. The work is set to commissioned music by Mio Morales, whose last score for Ms. Nejman was a compelling mix of Brazilian pop and sharp electronic rhythyms. (Through Feb. 18.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 334-7479; $20; $17 for students. (Sulcas) * NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Thursday) The company's marketers have devised snappy titles for 10 winter season repertory programs. But words appear to have failed them when it came to tonight's collection of ballets, repeated on Sunday and Thursday, which is rather dully called ''Contemporary Quartet.'' It consists of ''Carousel (A Dance),'' ''Intermezzo No. 1,'' ''Slice to Sharp'' and ''Friandises.'' No matter. We still have ''Balanchine and Robbins: Masters at Work'' (''Serenade,'' ''Dybbuk'' and ''Stravinsky Violin Concerto,'' tomorrow afternoon); ''Essential Balanchine'' (''Square Dance,'' ''Liebeslieder Waltzer'' and ''Stars and Stripes,'' tomorrow night); ''Visionary Voices'' (''Klavier,'' ''Russian Seasons'' and ''The Four Temperaments,'' on Tuesday) and ''For the Fun of It'' (''Circus Polka,'' ''Walpurgisnacht Ballet,'' ''Jeu de Cartes'' and ''Firebird,'' on Wednesday). (Through Feb. 25.) Tonight and Thursday night at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m. and Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $20 to $95. (Dunning) * NY FLAMENCO FESTIVAL (Thursday) Paco de Lucia, the renowned guitarist, actually precedes the first dance programs of this passionate and ambitious celebration of an ancient Gypsy art. But who cares about music? The dance component opens with Gala de la Bienal de Sevilla, featuring Joaquin Grilo, Isabel Bayon and the rising flamenco stars La Moneta, Manual Linan, Olga Pericet and Marco Flores. At 7:30 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 545-7536, worldmusicinstitute.org; $30 to $85; $200 for a gala ticket, which includes a reception. (Dunning)92ND STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL: LEE SAAR THE COMPANY (Wednesday and Thursday) This gutsy, brainy modern-dance company, founded seven years ago in Tel Aviv, will open this five-week festival with new and repertory dances. (Through Feb. 18.) Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500, 92Y.org; $20. (Dunning) OYU ORO (Thursday) This company of Afro-Cuban performers will present ''Palenque,'' which incorporates popular and traditional dances from both cultures. (Through Feb. 25.) At 7:30 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org; $20; $15 for students. (Dunning)REBECCA RICE DANCE (Tonight and tomorrow night) From Boston, Ms. Rice and her modern-dance company focus on what she describes as organically centered dance rich in energy and texture. Tonight at 9, tomorrow night at 8, Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (978) 852-3863, rebeccaricedance.com; $20 and $35; $15 for students.(Dunning) Jill Sigman/thinkdance (Tonight through Sunday) A serious calf injury and travels in India, Berlin and New Orleans were among the ingredients that prompted Jill Sigman's new ''Rupture,'' which features hundreds of broken eggshells, an original score for voice and electronics, live video and actual dancers. Ms. Sigman has a reputation for quirky originality that she seems to be about to live up to. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30, Sunday at 7.30 p.m., Danspace Project, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194; $15; $10 for members. (Sulcas)SUNDAYS @ THREE (Sunday) Magbana Drum and Dance will present new and reconstructed pieces rooted in Guinean traditional and modern styles. At 3 p.m., 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92Y.org; $3. (Dunning)THE 2007 A.W.A.R.D. SHOW! (Sunday) Participants in this month's installment of this series, which features short dances and discussion, are Kate Weare, Dana Ruttenberg, Evangelos Dance, Daniel Clifton and Nelly van Bommel. At the end of the evening, the audience chooses a choreographer or work that will be featured as a finalist, in May. At 7 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479, netacompany.org; free. (Dunning) WIDEMAN/DAVIS DANCE (Tonight) This company, starring the former Dance Theater of Harlem principal Tanya Wideman-Davis, will perform Thaddeus Davis's new piece, ''The Bends of Life,'' a dance that follows two characters from slavery to sharecropping to gaining the right to vote, focusing on the quiltmaking women of Gees Bend, Ala. At 7:30, Mary Johnson Performing Arts Center, Calhoun School, 433 West End Avenue, at 81st Street, Manhattan, (212) 497-6528, calhoun.org; $10; $5 for students. (Dunning) ArtMuseums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums* American Folk Art Museum: MARTiN RAMiREZ, through April 29. Ramirez, a Mexican peasant who immigrated to Northern California and died there at 68 in 1963, spent the last 32 years of his life in a mental hospital making some of the greatest art of the last century. He had his own way with materials and color and an unforgettable cast of characters (most notably, a mounted caballero and a levitating Madonna crowned like the Statue of Liberty.) But most of all, Ramirez had his own brand of pictorial space, established by rhythmic systems of parallel lines, both curved and straight, whose mesmerizing expansions and contractions simultaneously cosset and isolate his figures. This show should render null and void the distinction between insider and outsider art. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)* American Museum of Natural History: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. This astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples -- larded with fascinating facts and tales -- ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org. (Smith)* Chelsea Art Museum: 'DANGEROUS BEAUTY,' through April 21. A timely update of a well-worn idea, this show of contemporary works in a variety of mediums by 18 artists examines the beauty myth in art, advertising and the fashion industry. Eloquent but blunt imagery of anorexic girls, chiseled male beefcake and close-ups of surgically deformed faces predominates, reminding us of the violent extremes to which some people will go in pursuit of society's ideal of beauty. The rest of the show -- often pointing an accusatory finger at skinny models, cosmetic labels and the mass media -- feels familiar in its critique, but the premise about the ideology of beauty is beyond argument. 556 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-0719, chelseaartmuseum.org. (Benjamin Genocchio)* Grey Art Gallery: 'Semina Culture: Wallace Berman & His Circle,' through March 31. The artist Wallace Berman (1926-76) may ring only a faint bell to many New Yorkers, but he was a central, charismatic figure in an underground of West Coast artists and poets in the 1950s and 60s. A collagist, poet, photographer and the publisher of an influential journal, Semina, he inspired others to make art too, sparking hidden aptitude in startling places. After meeting him, drifters, movie stars, ex-marines and petty criminals found themselves starting to paint and write. And a traveling love company of them has come to Grey Art Gallery, trailing dreams, delusions and marijuana clouds. New York University, 100 Washington Square, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780. (Holland Cotter)* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'Spanish Painting from El Greco to Picasso, TIME, TRUTH, AND HISTORY' through March 28. This show is carried along on its sheer star power and optical finesse. There are dozens of Goyas and Velazquezes and Zurbarans and El Grecos and Riberas and Dalis and Picassos, many famous, many not. I can't tell you how often I was stopped by a picture so good or unexpected that it made me do a double take. Velazquez's painting of a dwarf is alone worth crossing a continent to see. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Michael Kimmelman) International Center of Photography: 'Henri Cartier-Bresson's Scrapbook: Photographs, 1932-46,' through April 29. Arrived by way of the Fondation Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris, this show has more than 300 of the prints the photographer glued into an album and toted to New York for curators at the Museum of Modern Art to cull. Captured by the Nazis, he had been presumed dead when the Modern planned his retrospective. Then he turned up alive -- the ''posthumous'' exhibition opened, with him in attendance, in 1947. The current exhibition reconstructs as best as possible the original layout of the scrapbook. It's an eye-straining affair, but it surveys the revolutionary work he shot in Spain, Italy, Mexico, Britain and France. His taste for uncanny detail linked him to Surrealism and Surrealist wit, but unlike many Surrealists, he remained committed to human values. Boys mug at his camera. Prostitutes swan. Their gazes equalize them with us. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Kimmelman) International Center of Photography: 'Martin Munkacsi: Think While You Shoot!' through April 29. Munkacsi, who inspired Cartier-Bresson, was, by contrast, self-taught, a creature of his own devising. This is the most complete retrospective, with a thick catalog (not too well researched) and dozens of vintage prints from the 1920s through the early '60s. He favored scenes of daily life, absorbing avant-garde ideas about odd angles and abstract compositions. In 1928 he moved to Berlin and traveled the world on assignment to Brazil, Algeria and Egypt. Munkacsi was a stylist, and he made catchy images the only way he knew how, in a modernist mode, which, being an opportunistic form, could serve any master. He became a celebrity in America. He photographed Fred Astaire dancing and Joan Crawford poolside. In the breezy layouts of Harper's Bazaar, the work looked brilliant. (See above.) (Kimmelman) * THE METropolitan museum of art: 'GLITTER AND DOOM: GERMAN PORTRAITS FROM THE 1920s,' through Feb. 19. The 100 paintings and drawings on display here are by 10 artists, including George Grosz, Christian Schad and Karl Hubbuch, and most conspicuously the unrelentingly savage Otto Dix and his magnificent other, Max Beckmann. In their works the Weimar Republic's porous worlds reassemble; we look into the faces of museum directors and cabaret performers, society matrons and scarred war veterans, prostitutes and jaded aristocrats who were watching their world slide from one cataclysm to the next. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith) * The MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Sept. 3. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer, and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck) Morgan Library & Museum: 'Private Treasures: Four Centuries of European Master Drawings,' through April 8. This show is drawn entirely from an anonymous private collection. Despite the veil of secrecy, a couple of things are obvious: the collector had significant capital for investing in old masters and either an exceptional eye or a good adviser (or both). The works span more than 400 years, from the 16th to the early 20th century, and include drawings in ink and pencil, watercolor, chalk and gouache. The earliest works come from a period when drawing wasn't an autonomous practice but was used as a form of exercise, to apply one's craft, to experiment and to make preliminary sketches for larger works. The best example is a black chalk drawing, ''The Dead Christ'' (1529-35), by Agnolo Bronzino. With more than 90 drawings in the show, being a diligent observer quickly becomes exhausting. In which case, put down the guide, find a few drawings you like, and enjoy them while you can. After all, you don't know where they came from, where they're going or when you'll see them again. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Martha Schwendener) Storefront for Art and Architecture: 'Clip/Stamp/Fold,' through Feb. 24. This show examines the world of those small magazines from the early 1960s to the end of the 1970s, when the field of architecture was still marked by a playful intellectual and political independence. Often thrown together on a shoestring budget, the magazines have an intoxicating freshness that should send a shudder down the spine of those who've spent the last decade in the glow of the computer screen. But this is not an exercise in nostalgia. It's a piercing critique, intended or not, of the smoothness of our contemporary design culture. These magazine covers map out an era when architecture was simmering with new ideas. You're bound to leave the show with a nagging sense of what was lost as well as gained during the last three decades. 97 Kenmare Street, Little Italy, (212) 431-5795, storefrontnews.org. (Nicolai Ouroussoff) Galleries: Chelsea* JACCO OLIVIER Yet another painter working in animation might seem a little tiresome. But these wistful filmed animations of loosely brushed seascapes and landscapes by Mr. Olivier are perfectly lovely. It is no revelation that he is from the Netherlands -- Dutch artists more or less invented landscape imagery in the late 16th century. This artist updates the genr. The imagery is marvelously painterly, with the individual frames sometimes bordering on abstraction, though the narrative structure owes much to the techniques of film. Mr. Olivier's peculiar genius is to have effortlessly combined them. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street, (212) 680-9889, www.marianneboeskygallery.com, through Feb. 17. (Genocchio) Last Chance* COSMOLOGIES This flawed but also irresistible survey of the longstanding human desire to account for the universe in a holistic, often holy manner ranges eclectically across continents, centuries, mediums and religions. Its nearly 70 objects and artworks include African ritual objects, Tibetan and Mongolian mandalas, rare European prints and books and the efforts of over 30 contemporary artists. Unsurprisingly, the circle is the dominant form here, which befits the way you may find yourself orbiting through the panoply of material. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-9500; closes tomorrow. (Smith)* Freeman/Phelan: 'The Long Goodbye' As a collaborative duo, Jonah Freeman and Michael Phelan turn the American cultural landscape into a kind of job lot shop of the damned. Synthetic carpeting heaves across the gallery floor. Glass display cases display only themselves. Pictures that look abstract and a little Chinese-y are actually photographs of aluminum foil. Some interesting young artists are turning design into a lethal critical weapon, and Mr. Freeman and Mr. Phelan are two of them. Josh Connelly Presents, 625 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 337-9563, johnconnellypresents.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)* 'Material for the Making' This auspicious first show organized by Elizabeth Dee's new director, Jenny Moore, has work by four good artists. Mai Brau's heap of shredded newspaper is a realistically undecipherable edition of the news of the day. Gail Thacker's sequential Polaroids of a dancing man covered in shaving cream is Dada Eadweard Muybridge. Kori Newkirk fills a wall with a giant snowflake painted in pomade. An eerie video by Kerry Tribe recreates, in sonambulistic shock-time, the experience of a car accident in a snow storm. Elizabeth Dee, 545 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 942-7545, elizabethdeegallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) * CARRIE MOYER: THE STONE AGE, NEW PAINTINGS Although a little cautious, Ms. Moyer's new paintings have a bracing visual and conceptual complexity. Feminism, biology, geology, prehistoric goddesses and vessels are evoked in thin, precisely calibrated layers that add new twists to both the geometry and the gesturalism of male-dominated formalist painting. It's post-political abstraction. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, near Hester Street, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631; closes on Sunday. (Smith) * Museum of Modern Art: 'DOUG AITKEN: SLEEPWALKERS' Produced in concert with Creative Time Inc., this monumental video projection, screened nightly (from 5 to 10) on three sides of the sleek exterior of the newly expanded Museum of Modern Art, consists of short, silent and rather too glamorous meditations on the working nights of five emblematic New Yorkers played somnolently by actors and musicians who include Donald Sutherland and Tilda Swinton. But Mr. Aitken's astute and restless cinematic ambition and commanding sense of scale are in full force, especially in the more abstract portions of the piece, resulting in a fitting ode to the city that never sleeps and that the camera has always loved. (212) 708-9400; closes on Monday. (Smith)* Stephen G. Rhodes: 'Recurrency' It's great when someone gets ambitiously complicated and makes it work, as the young Los Angeles-based artist Stephen G. Rhodes does in his first solo show. Formally, he juggles video, sculpture, photographs and drawings, and hooks them up in a circling narrative that ricochets from 19th-century fiction to B films to Hurricane Katrina. The play of history, fiction and recent reality that results is memorably atmospheric. Guild & Greyshkul, 28 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 625-9224, www.guildgreyshkul.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)* Saul Steinberg: works from the 50's-80's Steinberg's side-winding art may be in full cry at the Morgan Library, but this wonderful short-form retrospective doesn't skimp. Ranging from the early 1950s to the late 1980s, its 40 objects include one of the artist's studio-table sculptures, accoutered with whittled versions of tools and works-in-progress and a facsimile of his many notebooks that feels like the real thing, especially since it can be handled. Adam Baumgold Gallery, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338; closes tomorrow. (Smith) Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Kiki Smith: A Gathering, 1980-2005' Many things fly and float here: men and women, harpies and angels, birds and beasts, toadstools and stars. And some things fall to earth, or rather to the museum's black stone floors, maybe to rise again, maybe not. The whole show, a midcareer retrospective, suggests a Victorian fairy tale, its tone at once light, grievous and dreamlike. But fanciful as it is, Ms. Smith's art is also deeply, corporeally realistic. It wears moral and mortal seriousness on its sleeve, if not tattooed on its wrist. It is about life and death, the essential things. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676, whitney.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A jazz listing in Weekend yesterday for Miles Okazaki at 55 Bar in the West Village gave an incorrect date for his appearance. It is Monday, not tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLASSICAL -- The Finnish soprano Karita Mattila, above, performs the title role in the Metropolitan Opera's revival of its 2003 production of ''Jenufa.'' Page 26. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
ART -- ''Head of a Young Girl in Profile'' (about 1895) by Odilon Redon, left, is one of the works from an anonymous private collection that is on display at the Morgan Library & Museum. Page 27.
 POP -- The salsa singer Gilberto Santa Rosa, center below, and several other Latin stars are performing tomorrow in the annual Concierto del Amor at Madison Square Garden. Page 26. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); FILM GENRES (77%); FILM (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



178 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: A Fugue for Good German Men

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
''The Lives of Others'' is haunted by a piece of music called ''Sonata for a Good Man,'' composed for the film by Gabriel Yared and, at the same time, magically familiar to some of its characters. Like the story that surrounds it -- a suspenseful, ethically exacting drama, beautifully realized by the writer and director Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck -- Mr. Yared's piece is melancholy, elegant and complicated. 
 Goodness, as a subject for art, risks falling prey to piety and wishful thinking, but ''The Lives of Others,'' one of the nominees for this year's best foreign-language film Oscar, never sacrifices clarity for easy feeling. Posing a stark, difficult question -- how does a good man act in circumstances that seem to rule out the very possibility of decent behavior? -- it illuminates not only a shadowy period in recent German history, but also the moral no man's land where base impulses and high principles converge. Mr. von Donnersmarck, born in West Germany in 1973 and making his feature film debut, demonstrates astonishing visual and narrative rigor. Even more remarkably, he is able to reach back into the totalitarian past and over the Berlin Wall into the grim, brutal absurdity of the late, unlamented German Democratic Republic, and lay bare the anxious, cruel psychology of socialism as it once existed.
There are two good men in ''The Lives of Others,'' which starts in Berlin in 1984, and they are presented in counterpoint, never on screen at the same time. One, Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch), is a successful playwright; the other, Capt. Gerd Wiesler (Ulrich Muhe), is the Stasi officer who spies on him. Georg, tall and handsome, with a mane of brown hair and a natural grace that stops just short of arrogance, leads something of a charmed life, enjoying a measure of official favor without losing the respect of his fellow artists, who are not all as lucky, or as circumspect, as he is. He shares a roomy apartment in an old building (the kind a capitalist real estate agent would describe as ''full of character'') with his girlfriend, Christa-Maria Sieland (Martina Gedeck), a tall, lovely actress who also stars in his plays. 
 Wiesler, in contrast, appears at first to be a virtual caricature of the unsmiling Stalinist bureaucrat, with a touch of the old Gestapo thrown in for good measure. Wiry and bald, he lives alone in a drab, brutalist high-rise apartment building, distracting himself with state-run television (which reports on chicken farming and declares that ''the 10th Party Conference economic policy is solid'') and a quick visit from a prostitute. 
 He is first seen lecturing a room full of aspiring secret policemen in the techniques of interrogation, and he addresses this task and his surveillance of Georg with the proud discipline of a professional and the zeal of a true believer. (To imply that ''our humanistic system'' would persecute an innocent person, he tells one of his prisoners, is itself potentially grounds for arrest.)
 It is not inaccurate to describe ''The Lives of Others'' as the story of how both men become disillusioned and hasten each other's disillusionment. But the paradoxes inherent in this story -- which are central to Mr. von Donnersmarck's brilliant exposition of the Orwellian logic of East German Communism -- are worth pausing over. It is not simply that Wiesler, the state-sanctioned, clandestine predator, develops a measure of sympathy for his quarry as he listens in on Georg's private, unguarded moments (''presumably they have intercourse,'' he types in his daily report after eavesdropping on Georg's birthday party). Surely his training would have inoculated him against this kind of reverse Stockholm syndrome.
 Rather, even as Georg is driven toward actions that implicate him, for the first time, in dissident activity, Wiesler becomes convinced of Georg's essential innocence and takes steps to protect him. The plot, as it acquires the breathless momentum of a thriller, also takes on the outlines of a dark joke. The poet and the secret policeman -- both writers, in their differing fashions -- may be the only two true patriots in the whole G.D.R.; in other words, the only people who take the Republic's stated ideals at face value. But since the nation itself functions by means of the wholesale and systematic betrayal of those ideals, the only way Wiesler and Georg can express their loyalty is by committing treason. 
 Wiesler is at first suspicious of Georg, whose social polish and air of entitlement certainly don't seem very proletarian. But he soon discovers the real reason for his investigation. Minister Hempf (Thomas Thieme), a government official and former Stasi bigwig, is infatuated with Christa-Maria (who is unable to fend off his grotesque attentions), and he wants some dirt on his rival. Wiesler's boss, Colonel Grubitz (Ulrich Tukur) -- the closest thing Wiesler has to a friend -- is happy to advance his own career prospects by going along with the minister's wishes. Faced with such corruption and cynicism at the highest reaches of the party, what is a good man -- or, for that matter, a dutiful Communist -- to do? 
 There is a bracing, old-fashioned quality to Mr. von Donnersmarck's film, which supplies us with good guys to root for and villains to despise. But it also shows, with excruciating precision, the cruelty with which a totalitarian state can exploit the weakness and confusion of its citizens. And even as they are, to some extent, enacting a morality play, the actors also seem like real, vulnerable people forced into impossible choices. This is especially true of Ms. Gedeck, whose natural nobility -- her height, her carriage, the strong line of her jaw -- makes Christa-Maria's half-hidden fragility all the more poignant. 
 The suspense comes not only from the structure and pacing of the scenes, but also, more deeply, from the sense that even in an oppressive society, individuals are burdened with free will. You never know, from one moment to the next, what course any of the characters will choose. Mr. Muhe conveys Wiesler's curious evolution with appropriate meticulousness and reserve. It is only in retrospect that you appreciate the depth and subtlety of emotion that underlie his performance.
 A terrible sadness lies at the heart of ''The Lives of Others'' -- a reckoning of lives and talents wasted by a state with no good reason to exist apart from the maintenance of its own power. But there are comic, even farcical elements as well: a dictatorship that calls itself a democratic republic is inherently ridiculous as well as malignant. 
 In 2007 we, of course, know in advance the punch line that history will deliver in the autumn of 1989. But the easy, complacent distance that informs much historical filmmaking is almost entirely absent from this supremely intelligent, unfailingly honest movie. 
 Early in the film, Minister Hempf condescendingly mocks the faith in humanity Georg expresses in his plays: ''People don't change,'' he says. And in some ways Mr. von Donnersmarck endorses the minister's point of view, even as he turns its cynicism into cause for hope. Georg and Captain Wiesler, though they occasionally waver and worry, remain true to their essential natures, and thus embody the film's deepest, most challenging paradox: people don't change, and yet the world does.The Lives of OthersOpens today in Manhattan. Written (in German, with English subtitles) and directed by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck; director of photography, Hagen Bogdanski; edited by Patricia Rommel; music by Gabriel Yared and Stephane Moucha; produced by Quirin Berg and Max Wiedemann; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 137 minutes. WITH: Martina Gedeck (Christa-Maria Sieland), Ulrich Muhe (Capt. Gerd Wiesler), Sebastian Koch (Georg Dreyman), Ulrich Tukur (Lieut. Col. Anton Grubitz), Thomas Thieme (Minister Bruno Hempf), Hans-Uwe Bauer (Paul Hauser), Volkmar Kleinert (Albert Jerska) and Matthias Brenner (Karl Wallner).

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Lives of Others, with Ulrich Muhe, left, as Wiesler, and Ulrich Tukur as Grubitz, opens today in Manhattan. (Photo by Hagen Keller/Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. E1)
 Martina Gedeck as Christa-Maria Sieland in ''The Lives of Others,'' a film written and directed by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck. (Photo by Hagen Keller/Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. E17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MEN (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); WRITERS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); ETHICS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); THEATER (57%); CHICKEN FARMING (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: A O Scott; Florian Henckel Von Donnersmarck; Martina Gedeck; Ulrich Muhe; Sebastian Koch

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%) NEW YORK, USA (64%) GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



179 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: From the Corner Bodega, the Music of Everyday Life

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Coffee, light and sweet, is the fuel that keeps a busy world in motion in the new musical ''In the Heights,'' a singing mural of Latin-American life that often has the inspiriting flavor of a morning pick-me-up on a warm summer day. Light and sweet are actually just the words to describe this amiable show, which boasts an infectious, bouncy Latin-pop score by a gifted young composer, Lin-Manuel Miranda, an unfortunately underspiced book by Quiara Alegria Hudes, and a stage full of energized, energetic performers you can't take your eyes off and won't want to.
 The engaging Mr. Miranda himself is front and center for much of ''In the Heights,'' which opened last night at 37 Arts. He plays the central role of Usnavi, who dispenses all that cafe con leche at the local bodega, the regular pit stop for a neighborhood full of outspoken characters. 
In the terrific title number that opens the show, Mr. Miranda raps a cityscape into vibrant life over the rumbling rhythm of a bass line. Shredding the air with his arms, rhymes percolating on his tongue, he introduces us to the men and women whose daily troubles -- overdue bills, overheated romances and overtaxed hearts -- will form the episodic story that provides a slender spine for Mr. Miranda's musical valentine to the barrio.
 Abuela Claudia (Olga Merediz) is Usnavi's surrogate grandmother, whose purchase of her daily lottery ticket on this hot summer morning just before the Fourth of July will have significant consequences for almost everyone in the 'hood. Camila and Kevin Rosario (Priscilla Lopez and John Herrera) run the gypsy cab company next door to Claudia's home -- incongruously still called O'Hanrahans, but who could afford a new sign?
 Benny (Christopher Jackson), their prized employee, harbors a secret (and forbidden) crush on their daughter, Nina (Mandy Gonzalez), who has just returned from her freshman year at Stanford with a conscience troubled by the economic stress the family is enduring to keep her there. Down the block Nina's arrival adds a welcome new strand to the dense fabric of gossip woven daily by the women working in the hair salon owned by the tart-tongued Daniela (Andrea Burns), who is happy to fabricate artificial news to go with the fake nails, if necessary. 
 Although it is rendered with exacting, gritty verisimilitude by the set designer Anna Louizos (right down to the flashing red lights atop the George Washington Bridge in the background), this sun-drenched block of Washington Heights could almost be mistaken for Main Street at Disneyland, or ''Sesame Street'' without the puppets. Stretches of Midtown would inspire greater anxiety. 
 Mr. Miranda and Ms. Hudes's panorama of barrio life is untagged by any graffiti suggesting authentic despair, serious hardship or violence. In this rosy image of the urban underclass, the most pressing question animating local conversation is whether the girl who made good will choose to return to that fancy university. 
 Not surprisingly this subplot doesn't accrue much emotional tension or dramatic momentum. Nor do any of the others, as the kernels of conflict troubling the block are resolved with sentimental simplicity in the musical's flimsy second act.
 Still, the emotional heart of the show is the ambivalence most of the characters feel about their neighborhood -- and their lives -- and this uncertainty is given powerful expression in Mr. Miranda's songs. Almost all these people are exiles from a history of greater economic want somewhere else -- Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico -- but their affection for the community they've forged in a rundown neighborhood is shadowed by a desire to escape once again, to a life of surer promise. Unfortunately, with gentrification oozing inexorably up the West Side Highway, they are more likely to be forced across the bridges into more precarious neighborhoods; Daniela has already signed a lease in Queens.
 A clever shout-out to Cole Porter in the opening song attests to Mr. Miranda's scholarly affection for musical theater. (In many ways ''In the Heights'' suggests an uptown ''Rent,'' plus some salsa fresca and without the sex, drugs and disease.) Some of the more earnest anthems, effective as they are, run in grooves derived equally from Broadway formulas and the new power-pop idioms employed with such exhausting frequency on ''American Idol.'' But even the weaker songs are sung with heart, urgency and solid showmanship. The sweet Ms. Gonzalez, the saucy Ms. Burns and the fierce Karen Olivo, who plays Usnavi's love interest, have particularly rich, powerful voices.
 In the up-tempo numbers and the rapping solos and duets, Mr. Miranda's musical voice shines forth most pleasingly. The hip-swaying rhythms of Latin music have not gained much traction in theater, so it is a pleasure to hear an unfamiliar sound finding fresh expression onstage. The director, Thomas Kail, keeps the stage humming with activity, as characters dance, prance or merely walk in time to the ecstatic bursts of brass and the insistent beats of Mr. Miranda's rap.
 Mr. Kail is aided in this mission for motion by Andy Blankenbuehler's joyous choreography, which synthesizes street styles and Broadway athleticism, showcasing the fabulously elastic bodies of the ensemble. A particular standout is Seth Stewart, playing a sweet-hearted graffiti artist, who seems to have little springboards in his sneakers.
 An uncalculated exuberance touches almost all of the performances at one time or another. (I delighted throughout in the comic flair of Robin de Jesus, a young charmer, as Usnavi's would-be lothario cousin.) And when the collective dance numbers catch fire, heat fills the stage and starts flowing outward. On a chilly winter evening, scruples about the show's not inconsiderable flaws start to evaporate quickly, like water from a hydrant turning to steam as it hits the asphalt on a July day. In the HeightsMusic and lyrics by Lin-Manuel Miranda; book by Quiara Alegria Hudes; conceived by Mr. Miranda; directed by Thomas Kail; choreography by Andy Blankenbuehler; music director, Alex Lacamoire; sets by Anna Louizos; costumes by Paul Tazewell; lighting by Jason Lyons; sound by Acme Sound Partners; arrangements and orchestrations by Mr. Lacamoire and Bill Sherman; music coordinator, Michael Keller; production stage manager, J. Philip Bassett; general manager, R. Erin Craig; technical supervisor, Randall Etheredge. Presented by Kevin McCollum, Jeffrey Seller and Jill Furman. At the 37 Arts Theater, 450 West 37th Street; (212) 307-4100. Running time: 2 hours, 10 minutes. WITH: Lin-Manuel Miranda (Usnavi), Andrea Burns (Daniela), Janet Dacal (Carla), Robin de Jesus (Sonny), Mandy Gonzalez (Nina), John Herrera (Kevin), Christopher Jackson (Benny), Priscilla Lopez (Camila), Olga Merediz (Abuela Claudia), Karen Olivo (Vanessa) and Seth Stewart (Graffiti Pete).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lin-Manuel Miranda, second from left, in the musical ''In the Heights.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); WOMEN WORKERS (71%); WOMEN (71%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (70%); LOTTERIES (64%); THEATER (58%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Hudes, Quiara Alegria

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Lin-Manuel Miranda

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



180 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: The Romance of a Dozen Roses, The Gritty Reality of a Truckload

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
THEY were already stockpiling roses in the New York flower district last week, some of the blossoms having recently worn little mesh caps, or condones (condoms) as the South American growers call them, to keep them from erupting too soon. If you're in the flower trade, Valentine's Day, when almost a third of all adult Americans buy cut flowers or a plant, may account for 30 or 40 percent of your yearly business, and you can't have too many roses on hand. Who cares that, according to Amy Stewart at least, roses are really lab rats, bred to live in a factory and be fed by machine.
 Ms. Stewart is the author of ''Flower Confidential,'' a book that comes out today from Algonquin and is part confession, in which she owns up to her ''generalized, smutty sort of lust for flowers,'' and part expose, in which she describes how the business has become so industrialized that a flower's greatest asset these days is not its beauty or its fragrance but its durability as freight. 
On a recent early-morning tour of the flower district, it was Ms. Stewart's smutty, lusty side that was more in evidence. A gardening writer who has also published a book about earthworms, Ms. Stewart plunged her face into bunches of phloxes and hyacinths, cooed over sweet peas, grinned with pleasure when she spotted some Esperance, a big pinkish variety of rose with subtle accents of green that is among her favorites.
 ''I just love how gritty and industrial it is here,'' she said, indicating the trucks double-parked, motors running, in the street, the guys in hooded sweatshirts pushing handcarts. ''It's kind of like these are the raw ingredients, and then you go to the restaurant and have a meal. It's flowers on the hoof.''
 The flower district, which has shrunk in recent years, is now essentially confined to the two blocks on West 28th Street between Seventh Avenue and Broadway, where stores take deliveries and then sell their wares -- some only to those in the trade, others to anyone who walks in. It's a crack-of-dawn kind of place that runs on caffeine and rock music blaring in most of the shops. It's also a place where the laws of climatology have been temporarily suspended. 
 Even in mid-winter, hydrangeas and lilacs bloom by the tubful. Amaryllis stalks, thick as bamboo, are piled like cordwood. Carnations by the cartload; lilies by the bucket. The gerbera daisies come packed in what look like shirt boxes, their happy-face blossoms all looking outward, their stems dangling down like wires from the back of a computer. The roses are wrapped, 20 to a bunch, in squares of corrugated cardboard and then stacked, business end out, on rows of metal shelves. They look like bottle rockets at a fireworks store.
 There are also shops that sell fake flowers of silk and plastic -- ''permanent botanicals,'' as they're known in the trade -- and places that specialize in hard goods: vases, floral foam, spray paint and aerosol cans of artificial fragrance. How about a case of artificial butterflies or creepy-looking phony hummingbirds? They're here too, along with plastic ladybugs, grasshoppers and praying mantises.
 But the days of all this plenty, both real and phony, may be numbered, Ms. Stewart said, explaining that West 28th Street is rapidly becoming more valuable as real estate than as a marketplace, and that the flower business has undergone a sea change. Three-quarters of all the flowers sold in the United States are now imported, she said, mostly from South America, and flowers are now available not just from florists but over the Internet and in delis and supermarkets, which puts increasing financial pressure on the wholesaler. What would make economic sense, she went on, would be for the flower market to move somewhere like the Hunts Point section of the Bronx, the new home of the Fulton Fish Market, but some flower sellers don't want to budge.
 In the meantime Ms. Stewart was delighted to find that, thanks to some lilies and narcissus by the door, the G. Page Wholesale Flowers store still smelled like a flower shop -- not a given in these days when scent is being bred out of flowers in favor of color, shape and longer shelf life. ''And look at these,'' she said, grabbing a bunch of French tulips from the Netherlands. ''This is a really high-end flower,'' she explained. ''It's not just the size, but the petal count, the delicacy of the color. It's a luxury item, like fine wine. One of the things growers are always complaining about in America is that people here have no way of comparing flowers except by price. We don't have a sense of quality.'' 
 Elsewhere in the shop she admired some pricey calla lilies, a flower that grows like a weed in her garden back home in Eureka, Calif., and some delphiniums, which she had tried and failed to grow for years. ''That was my 'Aha' moment,'' she said, explaining how she had come to be interested in the flower industry. ''I saw some delphiniums at a farmers market in Eureka, and I said, 'I can't grow these to save my life.' The seller said: 'Oh, you don't do these in a garden. You do them in a greenhouse.''
 Down the street, at Fischer & Page, she paused over some peonies from Israel; some roses of the lime-green Limbo variety, from Ecuador; some American ranunculuses. ''I predict that this is going to be the next hot flower,'' she said of the ranunculus. ''It looks a little bit like a rose, it comes in all these great colors, and it can be grown using the same greenhouse infrastructure they use for gerbera daisies, which means that the grower doesn't have a lot of downtime.'' She added: ''There's a lot that's unnatural about the flower business. It's not the garden. There's nothing garden about it.'' 
 Sun Valley Floral Farms, she added, one of the largest growers of cut flowers in the United States and a place that merits a chapter or so in her book, is just down the road from her, in Arcata, and the first time she went there was for an open house in 2001. ''I had a naive idea of what a flower farm would be,'' she said, ''but a factory is what I saw.''
 Still farther down West 28th Street, at Associated Cut Flowers, the floor was littered with leaves and greenery, and some of the shelves were already empty. It was past 9 a.m., and the flower district was winding down. There were even some parking spaces, as the last few vans loaded up and headed uptown, to hotels maybe, or to the kind of corporate offices that have a monthly flower budget. 
 ''That's the one thing I don't like about the flower business,'' Ms. Stewart said. ''Everyone gets up so damn early. It's even worse in Amsterdam. I think maybe my next book should be about bartenders.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''It's flowers on the hoof,'' the writer Amy Stewart said, describing the New York flower district. (Photo by Robert Wright for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Roses are red and lime-green: A customer sniffs the wares at Fischer & Page at West 28th Street in Chelsea. (Photo by Julien Jourdes for The New York Times)(pg. E19)Map of Manhattan highlighting the flower district and points of interest: The New York flower district is at its busiest Mondays through Saturdays, from 4 a.m. to noon. More information is at fmanyc.org. (pg. E19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); FLORISTS (89%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); LITERATURE (74%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%); CLIMATOLOGY (50%); POP & ROCK (50%) Flowers and Plants ; Books and Literature

PERSON: Charles Mcgrath; Amy Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



181 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Modernist in Loincloth and Feathers

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Unless you have spotted his single smoke-puff of a painting in the Museum of Modern Art, Armando Reveron probably means nothing to you. Why should he? Reveron, who died in 1954, spent most of his life in a shack by the sea in his native Venezuela. Many of his contemporaries dismissed him as nuts. His white-on-white pictures are practically unphotographable. 
 But chances are that if you visit the Reveron retrospective opening at MoMA on Sunday, you'll find yourself thinking about him a lot. His art and his story are like few others, and MoMA puts both across in an inspired installation: a single long corridor with compartmentlike rooms of paintings on each side, and at the very end, against a sea-green wall, a life-size doll with giant bat wings floating above her.
 Dolls? Bats? White-on-white? Permit me to introduce Reveron. 
 Born in Caracas in 1889, the only child of a wealthy couple who had no interest in being parents, he was farmed out to another family. Withdrawn and prone to illness, the young Reveron found an early interest in art. As a teenager he studied painting in Caracas, then traveled to Spain and Paris to study some more, devouring Velazquez and Goya, Cezanne and Degas as he went.
 Back in Venezuela he joined a group of anti-academic artists known as the Circulo de Bellas Artes, and under the sway of an emigre Russian Symbolist, Nicolas Fernandov, he did a series of paintings in shades of blue. The most striking of them, ''The Cave'' (1920), is based on Goya's pictures of seductive women known as majas. But Reveron's majas, hazily defined and set in some twilight space, are more plump water nymphs than vamps. 
 The model who posed for one of the figures was a young woman of Indian and Spanish descent named Juanita Rios, who would become Reveron's lifelong partner. She arrived just in time. In 1917, a year before he met her, he had a nervous breakdown, the first of several. The diagnosis: schizophrenia. In the same year Venezuela's repressive government cracked down on artists as enemies of the state, breaking up the Circulo de Bellas Artes. 
 Reveron's response was to flee, moving from place to place, until 1921, when he and Ms. Rios moved to a fishing village called Macuto on the Caribbean coast. There they built two huts with woven palm-frond walls. Before long the huts grew into a small walled compound with a studio, a pool and a Gaudi-esque chapel. Reveron called the place El Castillete, the Tiny Castle, and made its walls higher year by year.
 He and Ms. Rios shared the space with pets -- a parrot; two monkeys, Pancho and Chiquito; a dog named Mirador -- and often dressed as Indians, or the way they imagined Venezuela's aboriginal population had dressed, in loincloths and feathers. Reveron encouraged visitors to do the same.
 He had many visitors. Macuto was only partly wilderness; it was also an upper-class resort, and Reveron gained a reputation -- one he seems to have fostered -- as a tourist attraction. If you went to Macuto, you had to drop by El Castillete and watch the crazy artist at work, dashing at his canvas with jabs and swipes, using ''brushes'' made of cloth, sticks and bones. Afterward you might buy a picture as a souvenir. That was the idea.
 The landscapes he painted there between 1926 and 1934 are remarkable. Done mostly in white oils, they depict the immediate beachside surroundings, but as if in a blinding glare, or a light-shot mist. They're like Whistler nocturnes at tropical high noon.
 Often referred to as ''white paintings,'' they actually have touches of blue, gray and aquamarine, and areas of scraped-away pigment that reveal the beige canvas or burlap ground. The compositions, though simple, are astonishingly varied. A pair of tall, thin palm trees forms an ethereal architecture. A foamlike spattering seethes with hidden life, like Rodolphe Bresdin's foliage. A picture titled ''Light Behind My Arbor'' -- an image of light seen through the porous walls of Reveron's house -- is like a Malevich filtered through Agnes Martin. 
 If these landscapes are Reveron at his most innovative, others from the 1940s are no less experimental. Their subject, surprisingly, is the industrial port of La Guaira, near Macuto, which was thriving thanks to an oil boom that brought Venezuela economically into the modern world. 
 Did La Guaira attract Reveron's attention as a symbol of modernity, which he embraced in his art but retreated from in his life? Or because he figured that the paintings might sell? His images of the place are hardly triumphalist. The docks and sheds seem scratched and pricked into being. The colors are liverish, sad and grimy. Mountains rising behind the town threaten to slide down into its streets.
 Always he was painting women. Those from the 1930s gain a certain mystery from being done in close-valued whites and sepias. But basically they're standard academic nudes, slippery and slumberous. In the 1940s the tones darken, and the figures grow stranger.
 By this time El Castillete had some new residents: a set of life-size stuffed dolls that Reveron and Ms. Rios sewed from cast-off burlap sacks. Almost all female, they were used as models for paintings, though to Reveron they seem to have been more than mere props. Like statues of Roman Catholic saints in Latin America, they were treated as family. 
 He set up a cafe for them to relax in; he gave them musical instruments, a telephone, a tinfoil mirror, a bat-winged costume and a cage full of songbirds, all handmade from paper, tape and other grade-school materials, and all on view at MoMA. He designed their outfits and assigned them names: Niza, Serefina, Teresa, Josefina, Graciela. He expressed intense, contradictory feelings for them, protective, reproachful, domineering and erotic. Collectively they were a cross between a play group and a harem. They probably looked a little creepy when new, and now they're like tattered mummies, a macabre sight.
 Their presence makes the late paintings particularly eerie. In some the figures really look like dolls, with inert bodies and garish faces. In others they look like sexualized women, their anatomical details fetishistically rendered. (Reveron, Ms. Rios said, would paint from dolls, but give them her skin.) The confusion about what ''real'' means in this work is compounded in a series of late self-portrait drawings, in which the dolls loom up from behind the artist's Christlike head, like an army of adamant, blank-faced angels, as if aggressively crowding his space and thoughts. 
 By the time Reveron died in 1954, he was famous as a Latin American modernist pioneer. He was also romanticized as a second Gauguin or van Gogh; maybe he was inviting such comparisons in his self-portraits. He was touted as both insider and outsider, academically trained but self-developed, the creator of a persona that in the end he was unable to live without. El Castillete survived as a relic of that persona until it was destroyed in a mudslide in 1999.
 MoMA has given solo shows to only four Latin American modernists. Why should Reveron be one of them? On the surface at least he exemplifies cultural stereotypes that art historians are trying to move beyond, the Latin American artist as an exotic: instinctual, irrational, primitivizing, in tune with nature, fantasy-driven, ''spiritual,'' indebted to -- rather than in control of -- European forms. 
 Maybe there were practical reasons for the choice. Several of the paintings in the show, organized by John Elderfield, chief curator of painting and sculpture at the museum, belong to Patricia Phelps de Cisneros, a MoMA trustee with a fabulous Latin American collection, including the largest number of Reverons in private hands. (The museum's new curator of Latin American art, Luis Perez-Oramas, who consulted on this show, used to work for the Cisneros Foundation in Caracas.) 
 Whatever. The important point is that MoMA is pushing ahead in an effort to expand its definition of modernism to include the world. We may quibble over how it proceeds, but the forward, outward movement can only be good. And Reveron is here, in a magnetic, bizarre and haunting show. He is an artist I think you will be glad to know. ''Armando Reveron'' opens on Sunday and runs through April 16 at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street Manhattan; (212) 708-9400, moma.org.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Armando Reveron is the subject of an exhibition, opening Sunday at the Museum of Modern Art, that includes ''The Cave'' (1920). (Photo by Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela)(pg. E31)
Reveron made things for his dolls, including this birdcage. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)
 A 1940 doll made by Armando Reveron, who used dolls as models. (Photo by Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela)(pg. E40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); WOMEN (72%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (71%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Modern Art (NYC)

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Armando Reveron

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



182 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Museum for African Art Finds Its Place on Fifth Avenue

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The Museum for African Art, which has had a nomadic existence since it opened in 1984, will finally gain a permanent home in a soaring new building designed by Robert A. M. Stern, on Fifth Avenue between 109th and 110th Streets, officials announced yesterday. 
 Models and renderings of the new structure, which will face the northeast corner of Central Park, were unveiled at a news conference at the Guggenheim Museum, some 20 blocks south of the site. 
Presiding over the event, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg hailed the project as ''the first new construction of a museum on Museum Mile since the great Guggenheim opened in 1959.'' 
 With 90,000 square feet, including 16,000 square feet of exhibition space, the building will give the Museum for African Art a long-coveted base, said Elsie McCabe, the institution's president. Officials hope to break ground in the spring of 2008 and complete construction by the end of 2009. 
 The estimated cost is $80 million, of which $49 million has been raised, including $12 million from the city. 
 A tower of 115 luxury condominiums will be built above the museum, under a partnership between the museum and two developers, Brickman and Sidney Fetner Associates. Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the structure will be a shimmering glass wall made up of what Mr. Stern's firm calls ''dancing mullions,'' after the slender vertical members that form the division between window units
 At the museum's center will be a great hall entered from Fifth Avenue, with the mullions on the left and a soaring wall on the right, made of richly colored etimoe wood from Ghana, that curves upward to form the ceiling. 
 The wall ''suggests, if you look at it, the woven shapes of baskets and so forth -- and weaving is so much a part of African art,'' Mr. Stern said in an interview. ''It's not a literal interpretation. It's an abstract one.''
 At the rear, a cylindrical enclosure sheathed in perforated copper that Mr. Stern likened to a drum will house a staircase. Mr. Stern, who is dean of the Yale School of Architecture, called it a ''21st-century version'' of the concrete stairwell enclosures at Louis I. Kahn's Yale University Art Gallery, considered a Modernist masterpiece.
 The New York firm SCLE Architects will work with Mr. Stern on the project.
 He noted that his other works of public architecture -- the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass.; the Roger Tory Peterson Institute, an ornithology center in Jamestown, N.Y.; and a planned American Revolution Center at Valley Forge, Pa. -- have revolved to some extent around a personality.
 ''This, like the Rockwell, is a major art museum, but it's not built around a person, but around a continent,'' Mr. Stern said. ''It takes Africa out of the museums of natural history where it sometimes is -- and also out of museums of the modern art.'' He noted that over the last century, African masks and figures have sometimes been displayed as if their function were to inspire the Cubism of Braque or Picasso. 
 Founded as the Center for African Art in 1984 by Susan Mullin Vogel, now a professor of art history at Columbia University, the museum gained broad recognition for its innovative conceptual approaches to exhibiting African art.
 It occupied two adjacent town houses on East 68th Street before moving to rented quarters in SoHo in 1993. Around 2000, Ms. McCabe arranged a partnership with Edison Schools, the for-profit education company, to buy a parcel on Fifth Avenue from a housing developer. (She said the site had once housed a low-rise commercial building.) 
 Plans called for Edison to build a school and a corporate headquarters on the site while providing space for the museum to build a structure for itself. In 2001 the company's stock price nose-dived, and it abandoned the project in 2002, shortly after the museum had moved to a temporary location in Long Island City, Queens. 
 With a loan from the Community Preservation Corporation, the museum secured the land from Edison by 2003. Then, with help from two of its trustees -- John L. Tishman of the Tishman Realty and Construction Corporation and Jonathan D. Green of the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation -- the museum arranged a partnership with the two developers, Brickman and Sidney Fetner.
 The city's Economic Development Corporation recently arranged the sale of four other parcels to the partnership, clearing the way for the work to begin.
 Mr. Stern said the challenge was to design a museum with ''a strong civic public identity within the larger framework of a commercial apartment house -- and at the same time, to make a building that is glassy and open, but not a knee-jerk glass block.''
 Ms. McCabe said: ''We knew if anybody could marry us distinctively with a residential building, he could. And God bless him, he did.''
 A Harvard-trained lawyer who worked for Mayor David N. Dinkins from 1990 to 1993, Ms. McCabe has led the museum for nine years. She oversees a staff of 18 and an annual budget of roughly $3 million.
 The museum has organized about 55 exhibitions, many of them traveling across the United States and so far to 17 other countries. It has published more than 40 books and provided teacher training and curriculums to more than 350 schools. 
 Although the museum has eschewed collecting in favor of borrowing works from other institutions, it does plan a small permanent exhibition at the new site. 
 ''We're a small museum that's populated by zealots,'' Ms. McCabe said. ''We not only want to introduce children and adults to the beauty of African art, we want to introduce them in a variety of ways to the beauty and the majesty of the people who created it too.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the lobby of the new home for the Museum for African Art. (Photo by Neoscape/Robert A. M. Stern Architects) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); BIRDS (50%); ORNITHOLOGY (50%) Art; Architecture

ORGANIZATION: Museum for African Art (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Sewell Chan; Robert A M Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



183 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: $1.3 Billion Buys Giant Brooklyn Complex

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Ann Farmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
An investment group agreed at 3 a.m. yesterday to buy Starrett City, the sprawling low- and moderate-income apartment complex on Jamaica Bay in Brooklyn, for $1.3 billion, a price that experts say illustrates an exuberant real estate market.
 The sale already promises to turn into a flashpoint in the escalating battle over affordable housing for poor, working-class and even middle-class New Yorkers. The deal was only hours old yesterday morning when about 100 tenants and organizers from Acorn, a national housing group, arrived by bus at the offices of one of the buyers, David Bistricer, in Borough Park, Brooklyn, chanting: ''We love it. We need it. Don't take Starrett away.''
 The city is in the midst of a seven-year housing construction boom, yet apartment vacancies remain low and rents are spiking. At the same time, real estate investors are moving beyond glamorous office and apartment towers to pay what were until recently unheard-of prices for meat-and-potatoes housing. 
 Tenants, housing advocates, politicians and state and city officials say that the 46 brick towers with 5,881 apartments at Starrett City should remain an affordable haven for working- and middle-class families. They are concerned that the new owners will raise rents to justify the breathtaking price, or cut services at the complex, which has its own shopping center, schools, churches, synagogues, a power plant and an armed security force. Starrett is the largest federally subsidized housing complex in the country. 
 The buyers, Clipper Equity L.L.C., a partnership led by Mr. Bistricer and Sam Levinson, outbid six rivals in an auction by the longtime owners, Starrett City Associates, led by Disque Dean. They say that there is great potential to develop luxury and affordable housing on vacant parcels in the 140-acre complex wedged between Canarsie and East New York, which was recently renamed Spring Creek Towers. 
 Although Mr. Bistricer said in an interview yesterday afternoon that the new owners planned to buy out of the state's Mitchell Lama program for middle-class families, he insisted that Starrett's existing buildings would remain affordable. 
 ''We're not ready to get into specifics,'' said Mr. Bistricer, who was clearly uncomfortable in the limelight and declined to be photographed. ''We can say we're committed to long-term affordability.''
 Mr. Bistricer said he wanted to talk to tenants at Starrett and state and city officials to develop what he called a ''consensus.''
 There is no question that Clipper Equity paid a high price, roughly $221,000 for each apartment at Starrett City. Last year, Apollo Real Estate Advisors and Taconic Partners paid $90 million, or $91,556 per apartment, for Fairfield Towers, a complex opposite Starrett on Flatlands Avenue.
 ''That number is amazing,'' Dan Fusolo of Real Capital Analytics, which tracks real estate transactions, said of the Starrett City deal. ''It's much higher than it would have been even a few years back. It's a very bullish bet on the future of New York City and the eventual loosening of rent regulations.''
 That is what worries tenants and housing advocates.
 ''To me it's a safe haven,'' said Michael Adam, 19, the son of a police officer, who grew up in Starrett City and joined the protest yesterday. ''Right now my parents can help me pay for my college without being worried about being thrown out. My father just retired. He can't handle a rent increase.''
 Another resident asked, ''Where will I go?'' She is Bernice Barson, 66, a retired customer service clerk who has lived at Starrett for 18 years and pays $500 a month for her two-bedroom apartment. ''I can't afford what's outside.''
 John Brown, 68, a retired sanitation worker, who pays $1,200 for his two-bedroom apartment, said: ''At this age, where are we going? We're mostly retired people living on pensions.''
 The protesters crowded into the lobby for about an hour and slipped a letter under Mr. Bistricer's door asking the buyer to meet with Acorn. They left when the police ordered them out of the building.
 The affordable housing issue came to the fore last year, with the record-breaking $5.4 billion sale of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan. Mr. Bistricer and Mr. Levinson were part of a group led by a New York billionaire, Simon Glick, who bid for those two complexes.
 Most state and city officials kept silent about that sale, but they have been more active on the Starrett City sale. Gov. Eliot Spitzer has indicated that he wants the complex to remain affordable and economically and racially mixed. The state holds the $234.4 million interest-free mortgage for Starrett City and could, together with the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, reject the new owner.
 ''Starrett is an important and very complicated project,'' said Priscilla Almodovar, president of the state's Housing Finance Agency. ''There are three levels each of government, review and subsidy. We, therefore, need more information before we can comment.''
 Starrett City was designed in the 1970s as a subsidized, middle-class co-op under the state's Mitchell-Lama program. But the complex had some difficulty attracting tenants. Over time, it acquired a latticework of state and federal subsidies for low-, moderate- and middle-income tenants. Any new owners would have the right to drop out of the subsidy programs. But if they sought to build a new development on vacant parts of the site, the Bloomberg administration would have leverage, because that would require an environmental review and city approval.
 Real estate executives involved in the sale had initially identified another company owned by Mr. Bistricer, Berkshire L.L.C., as the buyer, but he said yesterday that those reports were mistaken. 
 Mr. Bistricer said that 90 percent of the tenants would be eligible for federal rent vouchers. He said he planned to ''devise a plan that works'' for the rest. But tenant advocates contend that hundreds of tenants could face rent increases and that some of them might have to move to smaller apartments, which may not be available.
 City and state officials did not immediately embrace the prospective owner, Clipper Equity. Indeed, Shaun Donovan, the city's housing commissioner, questioned Mr. Bistricer's role as a landlord, saying records indicated that there were 8,792 outstanding maintenance code violations involving 4,768 apartments in 71 of his buildings.
 ''The condition of Bistricer's buildings and the number of outstanding housing maintenance code violations is of serious concern,'' Mr. Donovan said. He added that the Bloomberg administration ''will do everything we can to support the state's efforts to preserve Starrett City as an affordable Mitchell-Lama complex.''
 Mr. Bistricer said that most of the violations were at Flatbush Gardens, a large and deeply troubled complex in East Flatbush that he and Mr. Levinson bought about 18 months ago. Since then, he said, they have poured millions of dollars into renovating apartments and installing new elevators in all 59 buildings. 
 ''It had troubled times in the past,'' he said. ''We saw there was an opportunity to clean it up and bring it back to life.''
 Tenant organizers from Acorn, however, said that while conditions have improved at Flatbush Gardens, which had been known as Vanderveer Estates, problems remained.
 Mr. Donovan also questioned Clipper Equities' tentative plans to develop thousands of condominiums and subsidized rental apartments at Starrett City. Mr. Bistricer estimated that there is as much as five million square feet of development space.
 He also questioned how much new housing is feasible at the site, given that much of the property is built on a landfill, with what he called ''little infrastructure.'' And if the property leaves the Mitchell-Lama program, officials estimate that property taxes would go up at least $12 million, from $3.7 million. 
 ''Because of the limited market potential in the area,'' Mr. Donovan said, ''we would expect any new development to require unusually large government subsidies to be economically feasible, and that is unlikely to happen.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Delphine Speller, a 10-year resident of the Starrett City apartments, waited yesterday with other protesters to speak to David Bistricer, one of the new owners. (Photo by Jeremy M. Lange for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Doresa Duverna, a member of Acorn, a housing advocacy group, read a tenants' statement yesterday at the office of David Bistricer. (Photo by Jeremy M. Lange for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RETAILERS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); RELIGION (64%); INTERVIEWS (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%) Housing; Starrett City Housing Development (Brooklyn); Mitchell-Lama Projects; Renting and Leasing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Ann Farmer; David Bistricer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



184 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK TO TEST WAYS TO PREVENT NUCLEAR TERROR

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
New York City is about to become a laboratory to test ways of strengthening the nation's defenses against a terror attack by a nuclear device or a radioactive ''dirty bomb.''
 Starting this spring, the Bush administration will assess new detection machines at a Staten Island port terminal that are designed to screen cargo and automatically distinguish between naturally occurring radiation and critical bomb-building ingredients.
 And later this year, the federal government plans to begin setting up an elaborate network of radiation alarms at some bridges, tunnels, roadways and waterways into New York, creating a 50-mile circle around the city.
 The effort, which could be expanded to other cities if proven successful, is a major shift of focus for the Department of Homeland Security. As it finishes installing the first generation of radiation scanners at the nation's ports and land border crossings, the department is trying to find ways to stop a plot that would use a weapon built within the United States. 
 ''How do you create deterrence against terrorism?'' said Vayl S. Oxford, director of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, the Homeland Security agency coordinating the work. ''You complicate the ability for the terrorist to do what they want.''
 But even as the new campaign begins, some members of Congress and antiterrorism experts are raising concerns that the initiative, like previous Homeland Security programs, could prove extraordinarily costly and provide few security gains.
 ''This is just total baloney,'' said Tara O'Toole, a former assistant secretary at the Department of Energy during the Clinton administration, where she oversaw nuclear weapons safety efforts. ''They are forgetting that no matter what type of engineering solution they try in good faith to come up with, this is a thinking enemy and they will look for a way around it.''
 While Homeland Security officials repeatedly declined to estimate the costs of a nationwide detection system, agency documents show they might spend more than a billion dollars on the cargo-screening equipment alone.
 Local officials in New York are sparring with Homeland Security over a plan to immediately transfer to local and state authorities the burden of maintaining and operating the network of detection machines when it is completed within several years.
 ''We are concerned they will put money forward for a piece of hardware and then move to another project,'' said Raymond W. Kelly, New York City's police commissioner. He added that while the city supports the plan, he is not convinced that the proposed detection network makes sense. ''Whether or not it works, whether or not it causes too many false alarms, which causes a whole other set of problems, all of these things are still to be determined,'' he said.
 Mr. Oxford said he is aware of the concerns about costs, which is still the subject of negotiations, and the performance of the new detection machines. But with a threat like a nuclear attack, the country cannot afford to wait until all the details are worked out, he said.
 ''Our philosophy is not to wait for perfection, because perfection never comes,'' he said.
 The Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, among the newest agencies at Homeland Security, was established in April 2005, in response to criticism that efforts to combat nuclear terrorism were too disorganized.
 The office focuses on blocking two types of plots: a nuclear weapon or a dirty bomb. A nuclear attack by terrorists is considered unlikely, because of the difficulty of obtaining the required radioactive materials, such as highly enriched uranium.
 The detonation of a dirty bomb is considered much more feasible. It only requires dynamite or another conventional explosive to detonate a widely available radioactive source -- like the cesium or cobalt in certain medical devices. The blast might cause injuries or deaths, but the radioactive residue would cover a two- to three-block area and not pose an immediate health threat. Possible panic and economic disruption could be among the most serious consequences, experts say. 
 The Securing the Cities detection network, as the New York experiment is called, is intended to stop a nuclear or radiological threat as far away from a city as possible. ''Detecting it in the core of Manhattan is too late,'' Mr. Oxford said.
 The network would most likely include truck inspection stations along highways approaching New York, which would be equipped with radiation detection devices, agency budget documents say. Devices might also be installed at highway tollbooths and at spots where rail, boat and subway traffic could be monitored.
 The detection equipment, some of which would be mobile, would be electronically connected and monitored so if a suspicious vehicle passed one spot without being stopped, it might be intercepted after passing another detector. 
 Some New York agencies already have a limited supply of radiation detection equipment, but the new system would be much more extensive and go much further outside the city.
 Mr. Kelly said that the city would, at least initially, use any new detection equipment to screen vehicles heading into Lower Manhattan. The project would complement a city program to install cameras, license plate readers and devices that can block vehicle traffic, creating a ''ring of steel'' around the financial district. 
 The actual design of the Homeland Security system and the protocols for how responses to alarms will be handled, are still being negotiated by federal officials and authorities in New York City, New Jersey, Connecticut and New York state.
 Benn H. Tannenbaum, a physicist and nuclear terrorism expert at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, said the system would never create anything close to an impenetrable barrier, particularly for a nuclear bomb, since the required ingredients have low levels of radioactivity and can easily be shielded. But the project still might be worthwhile, he said. ''If nothing else, it makes the terrorist think twice before they do something like this,'' he said.
 Ms. O'Toole, the former Department of Energy official, pointed to Homeland Security's BioWatch program, set up in about 30 cities in 2003 to monitor the air for a possible biological attack. 
 The equipment was installed quickly, but there was no detailed plan in place for how to respond to positive alarms, which meant three weeks of confusion among Houston authorities in October 2003, after tularemia, a naturally occurring pathogen, was discovered. ''There is this disconnect between these grand schemes for technology and reality,'' Ms. O'Toole said.
 Laura S. H. Holgate, vice president at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a Washington-based research group, said the government should put far more energy into a global effort to prevent nuclear materials from getting into the hands of terrorists.
 The testing planned on Staten Island at the New York Container Terminal is intended to police concerns about false alarms. 
 Three sets of new types of detection machines have been installed there. For the first time, such machines sound an alarm when something radioactive passes through, and simultaneously identify the radioactive isotope. That allows officials to distinguish between innocuous items that can emit low levels of radiation, such as granite or kitty litter, and real threats.
 Officials at the Government Accountability Office and some members of Congress are concerned that Homeland Security is moving too quickly to buy the new machines. Initial tests have shown them to be not much more effectivethan existing machines that are a fraction of the cost.
 ''We know this system is going to be expensive,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee. ''We need to be sure it will perform as promised.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A device to be tested at the New York Container Terminal on Staten Island is designed to detect critical bomb-building ingredients. (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); NATIONAL SECURITY (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); DIRTY BOMBS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); BUDGETS (66%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%) Terrorism; Radiation; Security and Warning Systems; Bombs and Explosives; Urban Areas ; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Tests and Testing; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (92%) Homeland Security Department; Domestic Nuclear Detection Office

PERSON: Eric Lipton; Raymond W (Comr) Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



185 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's No. 2 Health Official Is Held and Accused of Financing Shiite Militants

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting was contributed by Ahmad Fadam, Wisam A. Habeeb, Hosham Hussein, Khalid al-Ansary and Qais Mizher.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Iraqi and American troops arrested the second highest official in the Iraqi Health Ministry on Thursday, charging that he funneled millions of dollars to rogue Shiite militants who kidnapped and killed Iraqi civilians. 
 The United States military said in a statement that the official was suspected of using his position to run a rogue unit of the Mahdi Army, the Shiite militia that claims loyalty to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr. The statement accused the official of flooding the Health Ministry's payroll with militants, embezzling American money meant to pay for Iraq's overworked medical system and using Health Ministry ''facilities and services for sectarian kidnapping and murder.''
The military's statement did not identify the official, but several Iraqi government officials said he was Deputy Health Minister Hakim al-Zamili, a Shiite with longstanding ties to the Sadr organization. An Interior Ministry official said the authorities in recent weeks had come to believe that Mr. Zamili was using government ambulances to ferry weapons and militants across Sadr City, hiding them from American raids. 
 Mr. Zamili's detainment was the latest of several high-profile arrests or killings of commanders from the Mahdi Army in recent weeks. He was the fifth Iraqi deputy or cabinet level official to be arrested and charged with corruption since 2003, according to Iraq's Commission on Public Integrity, and the first known example of a senior Iraqi official charged with directly contributing to the country's convulsive sectarian violence. 
 He was arrested as new Iraqi Army and police checkpoints appeared all over Baghdad as part of the new security plan for the city. Though it was unclear whether Mr. Zamili's arrest was part of the new plan, it underscored the challenge that American troops faced as they tried to secure the capital while relying on an Iraqi government with questionable loyalties. 
 The Health Ministry is one of six ministries controlled by officials affiliated with Mr. Sadr. And even as Iraqi hospital officials complain of medicine and equipment shortages, the ministry has often been the site of dramatic kidnappings and killings. 
 In November, Mr. Zamili's predecessor, Ammar al-Saffar, a Shiite, was kidnapped by at least 24 gunmen wearing the uniforms of Interior Ministry policemen. Though he was abducted in a Sunni neighborhood, there were questions at the time about whether he had been removed by Shiite rivals. 
 Neither American nor Iraqi officials connected Mr. Zamili to Mr. Saffar's kidnapping, but the American statement said the arrested official was implicated in the deaths of several Health Ministry officials, including a director general in Diyala Province. 
 Though the statement from the American military said Iraqi forces had made the arrest, witnesses said American Humvees flooded the ministry building about 9 a.m., firing warning shots into the air and breaking windows before seizing Mr. Zamili, several guards and important paperwork in his office. 
 Shiite officials said Mr. Zamili's arrest was an affront to Iraqi sovereignty. The health minister, Ali al-Shammari, called the arrest an abduction and demanded proof to support the charges against his deputy. 
 Bahar al-Araji, one of 30 members of the Sadr bloc in Parliament, said American troops should have sought permission to search the ministry from the prime minister or an Iraqi court. 
 ''This is not an attack on the Sadr organization,'' he said. ''It's an attack on the Iraqi government.'' 
 His comments suggested that the Sadr organization planned to stand by its stated policy of refusing to outwardly fight American and Iraqi troops as the security plan moves through Baghdad. In recent weeks, Sadr officials have repeatedly sought to show that the Mahdi Army is only a defensive organization that aims to protect Shiite residents from Sunni attacks. 
 The American military also said in a statement that an airstrike in Anbar Province on two suspected safe houses for foreign fighters killed 13 insurgents. But witnesses said the airstrike flattened four houses, killing at least 35 people, including women and children. There was no immediate way to confirm either claim.
 Witnesses said the site of the airstrike, a mostly Sunni Arab area northeast of Amiriya, near Falluja, had been the site of vicious battles between fighters with Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and local tribes. One tribal leader said the clashes started because Al Qaeda wanted tribal leaders to join its fight, and they refused.
 Violence also continued to rage near the capital, with news agencies reporting that gunmen killed 14 men from the same Sunni family just north of Baghdad. 
 The United States military announced that four marines were killed Wednesday in separate episodes in Anbar Province. Seven other people were killed the same day when a Marine transport helicopter crashed in an insurgent-heavy region northwest of Baghdad.
 And in what appeared to be a rare case of cross-sectarian solidarity, the police in Diyala Province said a family of 25 Shiites -- moving from a Sunni area after receiving death threats -- was saved from death on Thursday when their Sunni neighbors repelled an insurgent ambush. Iraqi security forces were called in to help, and continued the battle, killing six gunmen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Iraqi employee of the Health Ministry in Baghdad inspected a door with military boot prints yesterday after the arrest of an official there. (Photo by Ali al-Saadi/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); EYEWITNESSES (76%); TERRORISM (73%); HOSPITALS (70%); MURDER (58%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (74%) Damien Cave; Hajim al- (Deputy Min) Zamili; Moktada Al- Sadr; Ahmad Fadam; Wisam A Habeeb; Khalid Al-Ansary; Hosham Hussein; Qais Mizher

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



186 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Better Ways to Spend Our Money

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Mr. Bush's Improbable Budget'' (editorial, Feb. 8):
 The Bush budget proves that the American empire is in decline. The Iraq war is now unaffordable. Even if it were a triumph of nation-building based on legitimate evidence of a threat to our security, it ravages our economic future. It makes no sense to squander our wealth on this war and assure the deconstruction of our beleaguered social programs. 
 The Great Society is teetering. Medicare is in jeopardy. Medicaid is in free fall. Next target of the Bush radicals: the New Deal. We are letting this pointless war (which we won four years ago) catalyze the restoration of the Gilded Age. H. Rex GreeneElida, Ohio, Feb. 8, 2007To the Editor: 
 Regarding your Feb. 8 editorial about the Bush administration's new budget, there is no reason to believe that the administration's goal is to balance the budget by 2012 or any other year.
 This administration came into office in 2001 with a balanced budget and a surplus and immediately proceeded to plunder it. It would be foolish to believe that after bringing the country trillions of dollars into the red, these officials have changed. Louis ErlangerBrattleboro, Vt., Feb. 8, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''The Other Defense Budget'' (editorial, Feb. 6):
 Thank you for specifying several weapons programs that we could afford to trim or delete. The money could be better spent addressing more plausible threats like climate change and infectious disease. 
 If we hope to avoid intolerable costs of global warming, we need to be investing generously in clean energy technologies.
 Similarly, we need to be investing more in the economies of the poorest countries: until your basic needs are met, you can't fret about the environment. And without economic development and female education, population will not stabilize.
 Although global warming and poverty do not have the outrage factor of threats we can attribute to evil perpetrators, they are serious threats nonetheless.Todd BuchananEldora, Colo., Feb. 6, 2007To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush Releases Budget as Plan to Erase Deficit'' (front page, Feb. 6) and ''The Other Defense Budget'' (editorial, Feb. 6):
 Our government is addicted to military spending, and it has increased at alarming rates under this administration. At some point it must be examined.
 The budget is more about subsidizing an obscenely bloated military-industrial complex than it is about supporting our troops. How many more jets and attack submarines do we need? Will hundreds of billions spent on hardware make us more secure?
 If the United States halved its military spending, it would still have the world's biggest budget by far. Lawmakers looking for fat to cut should start here. And perhaps we could put that money to use elsewhere -- like the health, education and welfare of our citizens.Howard MonaghanKendall Park, N.J., Feb. 7, 2007To the Editor: 
 The president's budget calls for eliminating the deficit in 2012, four years after he leaves office. But while in office, he turned the biggest budget surplus in history into the biggest deficit in history and borrowed more than a trillion dollars to pay for a frivolous war and reward his rich friends. 
 Now he will leave his successor to repair the damage he has done to our foreign relations and our economy on top of the damage from Katrina and other natural disasters and the domestic problems he has ignored. 
 To add insult to injury, he has the audacity to tell us that with his budget, it will be up to the Democrats to rein in federal spending. This sounds to me like the inebriated husband who after bingeing for eight years tells his wife she has to cut back on the groceries.Wayne R. KnightMcLean, Va., Feb. 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); MEDICARE (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (55%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: H Rex Greene; Louis Erlanger; Todd Buchanan; Howard Monaghan; Wayne R Knight; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%) United States; Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



187 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 746 words

PERSON: Nelson Woolf Polsby 

HEADLINE: Nelson W. Polsby, 72, Author And a Scholar of Politics

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Nelson W. Polsby, who marshaled intellectual rigor, lucid writing and a knack for drawing striking lessons from real-life observation in his enduring studies of Congress and the presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 72.
 The cause was complications of congestive heart failure, his daughter Emily Polsby said. 
Mr. Polsby, a political scientist, wrote or edited at least 15 books and scores of articles and edited The American Political Science Review, the most prestigious political science journal. He was especially known for his studies of Congress, the presidency, political parties, policy making and the media.
 In an interview with Harry Kreisler of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, in 2002, Mr. Polsby said it was all so much fun that he at first had trouble believing ''people paid you American money to study this stuff.''
 As a youth, he gobbled up newspapers, newscasts and family talk about politics. Then , as a college student he eagerly pursued his fascination with how Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the anti-Communist crusader, managed ''to scare the daylights'' out of Washington power brokers.
 Using public opinion research and his instincts, Mr. Polsby attributed McCarthy's success to support from the Republican Party, a novel notion to more senior social scientists.
 Mr. Polsby had already fallen in love with Washington while ''hanging around'' the Capitol as a student and watching lawmakers, and he was beguiled by its complexity. He perceived elites competing with one another in often unexpected ways.
 ''There are often too many facts and not infrequently too many different versions of the facts,'' he said in the Berkeley interview. ''Rather than speaking for themselves, various facts have what we have come to refer to as spokespersons.''
 Mr. Polsby taught at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and Wesleyan University before moving to Berkeley, where he was the Heller professor of political science and director of the Institute of Governmental Studies.
 Among the subjects he analyzed was how electoral rule changes in the major parties changed the political landscape. Edwin M. Yoder Jr., reviewing one of Mr. Polsby's books, ''Consequences of Party Reform'' (1983), in The Washington Post Book World, called him the ''Newton of the post-1968 political dynamics.''
 His influential works on Congress began with an article in The American Political Science Review in 1968. Titled ''Institutionalization of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1948,'' it told how the House had become more complex. 
 In 2004, in ''The Importance of Constituents,'' he attributed the shift of power in the House to demographic changes. One reason for these, he said, was the availability of residential air-conditioning, which drew Republicans to the South, where they seized the conservative banner from traditional Democrats.
 His 1984 book, ''Political Innovation in America,'' examined eight postwar initiatives, from the creation of the Council of Economic Advisers and the Atomic Energy Commission to Medicare. He told how these innovations resulted from the interaction of ''policy entrepreneurs'' like university researchers and politicians on the prowl for ideas.
 Nelson Woolf Polsby was born on Oct. 25, 1934, in Norwich, Conn. His father, a businessman, died when he was 11. He attended the Pomfret School in Connecticut and liked to visit the Capitol on breaks, when he visited his mother, who had moved to nearby Chevy Chase, Md. He attended the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, which also let him spend time in Washington.
 His doctoral thesis at Yale concerned power relationships, but differed from the case studies of cities that were popular at the time. Norman J. Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said Mr. Polsby put issues in a much broader context.
 Mr. Polsby is survived by his wife of 48 years, Linda; his daughters Emily, of Berkeley, and Lisa Susan Polsby of Naperville, Ill.; his son, Daniel, of Mountain View, Calif.; his mother, Edythe Woolf Polsby Salzberger of Washington; his brothers Daniel, of Fairfax, Va., and Allen, of Bethesda, Md.; and two grandsons.
 Mr. Polsby did not turn neoconservative, like many intellectual Democrats of his generation, but remained ruthlessly bipartisan in his prickliness. 
 ''He could rip the bark off Bill Clinton just as easily as he could George Bush,'' Mr. Ornstein said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson W. Polsby (Photo by Liz Weiner/University of California, Berkeley, circa 2000) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); HEART DISEASE (57%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (83%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



188 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Your Money at War

BYLINE: By Kristin Henderson. 
Kristin Henderson is the author of ''While They're at War: The True Story of American Families on the Home Front.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
EVERY morning that my husband was in a war zone, whether it was Afghanistan or Iraq, I woke up knowing that today could be the day my world might end. He's a Navy chaplain, but when he's convoying with the Marines, hunkering down with them under fire, he is as exposed as they are. Even those tucked away on bases over there face mortar attacks. 
 This takes a toll on the families left behind. ''Everyone up here is on Prozac,'' a wife from Fort Drum, N.Y., told me. We field phone calls from our loved ones on the frontlines. We deal with money shortfalls and anxious children. And then our combat veterans come home. In the last few years, divorces among enlisted soldiers shot up 28 percent and the suicide rate among Iraq veterans doubled. 
Though some claim that all Americans are making sacrifices for the war on terrorism, it's just not true. The few who are sent to fight and those left behind who are an intimate part of their daily lives are the ones whose mental health, finances and relationships are taking the hit. 
 A universal draft would certainly help spread the sacrifice. But we all know that the privileged will find a way to avoid serving, as they did by paying $300 during the Civil War or claiming college deferments during Vietnam.
 What we need is a war tax, dedicated to financing the support services needed by military families and combat veterans. Perhaps it would be more accurate to call it a long-term costs-of-war tax. Because the tax I'm proposing, like the needs it's intended to meet, will not end when the war does. 
 Historically, war taxes are how America finances its military conflicts -- taxes on income, beverages, tobacco, utilities and more. The federal government first imposed what became a 3 percent tax on long-distance telephone calls in 1898 to help pay for the Spanish-American War. Since then, it's been repealed, most recently last summer, and reinstated several times. 
 Some argue that sharing the sacrifice by raising taxes hurts the economy. But clearly the phone tax didn't damage the growth of the telecommunications industry. And during its last three years in existence, it brought $15 billion into the government's general fund. 
 If a phone tax were reinstated, or a tax on oil or clothing -- something we use in proportion to our income -- then all Americans would wind up shouldering at least a small portion of the burden of our nation's wars. Military families would be exempt.
 Unlike the old phone tax, however, this new tax must be dedicated to financing programs that support and heal combat veterans and their families during deployment and afterward -- combat trauma counseling, respite child care, part-time jobs for spouses trying to make ends meet, marriage counseling. These programs have always suffered from meager budgets, and while the public's interest will inevitably move on, the needs won't go away as long as America has a military.
 For those who oppose the war and spending any additional money on it, all I can say is that this isn't about financing a war. It's about reducing human suffering. And for everyone who claims to ''support the troops'' -- peace activists and war supporters alike -- put your money where your bumper stickers are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (73%); TERRORISM (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); SUICIDE (54%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) United States Armament and Defense; Taxation; Telephones and Telecommunications; United States International Relations; Families and Family Life

PERSON: Kristin Henderson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



189 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: The Complicated End of an Ex-Law Firm

BYLINE: By ELLEN ROSEN

 BODY:
At one time, the breakup of a big, prestigious law firm was rare. But since the technology boom and bust, implosions of once highflying firms like Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison and Testa, Hurwitz & Thibeault have occurred with more frequency.
 Yet the bankruptcy of Coudert Brothers still stands out. Eighteen months after the firm voted to dissolve, its unwinding continues to be a complicated, messy affair. 
Creditors and at least one former partner have filed lawsuits against the firm. Malpractice claims have accrued as well. There are allegations in court filings that three overseas lawyers sequestered money from the firm as it tried to pay off its creditors. 
 And the committee for unsecured creditors contends that payments to partners were done improperly at a time when the firm should have known it was insolvent, an assertion that lawyers for Coudert deny. Although it is difficult to determine just how much is at stake, the lawyer for the creditors' committee, David Adler of the New York office of McCarter & English, said the amount could exceed $25 million. 
 Coudert, experts say, may be an example of what happens when lawyers do not run their firm on sound business principles. 
 ''If it's not run that way, you can get into trouble,'' said Leslie D. Corwin, a shareholder at Greenberg Traurig in New York who specializes in partnership law. ''If you look at major bankruptcies among professional services firms, the facts are remarkably similar. They grew, they were not able to get adequate capital infusion and they borrowed money to bring in practice groups.'' 
 Coudert's demise also underscores the risks for firms with global ambitions. The old-line firm, founded in 1853, was known for being a pioneer with its huge international practice. But after an effort to merge with Baker & McKenzie failed, partners in the London and Moscow offices defected to Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, the firm whose merger with Dewey Ballantine was recently called off. (Many Coudert lawyers are now working at either Baker & McKenzie; Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe; or DLA Piper.) While Coudert in 2004 ranked among the 100 highest-grossing firms in the United States, according to American Lawyer magazine, it was not enough to keep the firm, with about 400 lawyers in far-flung offices, together.
 ''A lot of firms need to learn that it's riskier as a global firm than it is as a regional or a national firm because you're operating in different economic environments with different risks,'' said Ward Bower, a consultant with Altman Weil in Newtown Square, Pa. ''And both profit margins and margins for error are much thinner than they are in solely a domestic basis.''
 Other firms face the same challenges that overwhelmed Coudert.
 ''Globalization and consolidation have made it tougher for middle-tier firms to compete,'' Mr. Corwin said.
 At issue in the case is the way Coudert handled the end of its operations. Mr. Adler, the lawyer for the creditors' committee, said procedures were used ''to pay off the banks and shield the partners from personal liability.'' About $23 million in loans to Citibank and JPMorgan Chase personally guaranteed by Coudert's partners were repaid, according to court documents.
 But creditors say even more is at stake. Under bankruptcy law, payments made to insiders like law firm partners can be voided if made within 12 months of the bankruptcy filing. The creditors are questioning $28 million paid to Coudert partners in the first eight months of 2005 -- more than a year before the bankruptcy petition was filed.
 Lawyers for Coudert said in court documents that at most $8.3 million was paid after the firm knew dissolution was a possibility. But if an examiner finds that the firm doled out the funds while insolvent, Mr. Corwin of Greenberg Traurig said, the partners could be forced to return the money. ''If I were representing the creditors' committee I would kick and scream,'' he said.
 The lawyer for Coudert, Tracy Klestadt of Klestadt & Winters in New York, said there was nothing improper in the winding down of the firm. He said that the timing of the bankruptcy stemmed from an attempt to avoid unnecessary expenses. 
 ''It is not accurate to say there was a delay in filing,'' he said. ''The firm was attempting to resolve matters without filing for bankruptcy.'' 
 He added that ''because there were a number of judgments that were issued'' against the firm, bankruptcy became ''necessary to prevent assets from being attached.'' And he said that the firm at all times had ''sufficient accounts receivable that would lead to the conclusion that it was solvent on a balance-sheet basis.''
 Mr. Klestadt did acknowledge that there were overpayments to partners -- something that often happens with law firms after partnership payments are reconciled with actual profits. But he said ''that the amount that the partners owe on account of overdistribution of profits and tax advances is $8 million in the aggregate and it is irrespective of the solvency or insolvency of Coudert Brothers.''
 The latest round in the Coudert case, in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, stems from a creditors' motion filed in December seeking a trustee to oversee the case. But recently, the creditors' committee reached a compromise with Coudert and agreed to have an examiner rather than a trustee involved in the case. A trustee takes over what is left of a company, replacing management and making all decisions. An examiner would have more circumscribed duties.
 According to a Feb. 2 court order, the examiner will investigate the sale of Coudert's offices, the repayment of the bank loans, whether partners owe or are owed money and whether Coudert was insolvent before filing for bankruptcy, among other issues. Examiners are not typical in corporate insolvencies of this size, said Howard Seife, a partner at Chadbourne & Parke in New York, but are much more common in law firm bankruptcies.
 These bankruptcies, he said, are ''fraught with litigation and complications.''
 ''You can have 100 partners liable for different amounts, and sometimes an examiner is the only way to get to the bottom of things,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Adler, center, the lawyer for the creditors' committee, outside bankruptcy court in Manhattan. Creditors and at least one former partner have filed lawsuits against Coudert Brothers. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); ETHICS (73%); MERGERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (63%) Legal Profession; Ethics; Bankruptcies; Finances; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (91%); MCCARTER & ENGLISH LLP (90%); ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (85%); BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (58%); TESTA HURWITZ & THIBEAULT LLP (58%); DLA PIPER LLP (58%); BROBECK PHLEGER & HARRISON LLP (58%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Coudert Brothers (Legal Firm)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Ellen Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



190 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Calm Before and During a Storm; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Derivatives May Put the New York Fed Chief Through a Stress Test

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Timothy F. Geithner is 45, but he looks considerably younger, with an easy smile and hardly a wrinkle in sight.
 ''I think by nature Tim does not get stressed out,'' said Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who was one of his bosses before Mr. Geithner took the helm of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 2003. ''He has a calm way in the face of whatever he's facing and an irreverent sense of humor.''
He may need all the equanimity he can muster. 
 High on Mr. Geithner's to-do list is understanding and monitoring the $26 trillion credit derivatives market -- twice the size of the United States economy -- the fastest-growing financial market there is. Its explosive growth has greased the wheels of the global economy, increasing liquidity, spreading risk and minting money for Wall Street along the way. But it has surged at a time when volatility has been low, debt has been historically cheap and defaults have been virtually absent. When this market gets tested, no one knows for certain how it may react. 
 Even the heads of some of the world's biggest banks seem overwhelmed by the size and complexity of credit derivatives. ''It makes my head swim,'' said Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America.
 If the brave new world of finance is daunting, the man in charge of it is not. With a boyish charm and a dry sense of humor, Mr. Geithner has taken advantage of the current calm waters of the financial markets to take an active stance, rallying Wall Street to peel apart the market of credit derivatives to try to understand its potential risks. As a financial regulator, his style is more like a cerebral Dr. Phil than an Eliot Spitzer, the former attorney general and now governor of New York, who reveled in showdowns with Wall Street.
 Mr. Geithner is the anti-Eliot. 
 Of course, Federal Reserve bank chiefs are typically less confrontational, charged with stability, as well as being a critical part of setting monetary policy. But he has been unusually productive in tackling issues widely viewed as uncomfortably complex. 
 ''Tim loves projects, and he wraps his projects in packages that everyone wants to be part of,'' said Annette L. Nazareth, a Securities and Exchange commissioner who has known Mr. Geithner since he worked at the Treasury Department.
 As Mr. Rubin put it: ''He's elbow-less. It's really remarkable.''
 That has been amply illustrated in how he has persuaded Wall Street to take ownership of the issues surrounding credit derivatives: from the plumbing that makes the system function to more aggressive and creative stress-testing to the relationship between hedge funds and banks. His approach has aimed at helping them believe that they are masters of their own destiny rather than miscreants who need to be punished, while extracting improvements in the financial system along the way. 
 ''Tim manages to get people to work together to reach a higher place,'' said Thomas A. Russo, chief legal officer at Lehman Brothers. ''He has essentially put the plumbing of the business on equal footing with the revenue side, which is an enormous accomplishment.''
 If ever a market required creative thinking, the credit derivative market is it. 
 ''We've seen substantial change in the financial system, with the emergence of a very large universe of leveraged private funds, rapid growth in exposures to more complicated and less liquid financial instruments, all during a period of very low volatility,'' said Mr. Geithner in an interview in his elegant office in Lower Manhattan. ''This means we know less about market dynamics in conditions of stress.''
 A credit derivative is a contract by two parties that allows a participant to reduce its exposure to the risk of default on bonds, loans, government securities or corporate securities. The cornerstone of the credit derivatives market is credit default swaps, a sort of insurance policy that allows two parties to exchange the credit risk of an issuer. Originally introduced as an instrument to bet on defaults, it has evolved into a widely used trading tool, especially among hedge funds, to bet on interest rates and spreads.
 Credit derivatives are intended to reduce risk by spreading it out to as many parties as possible. That is generally considered desirable. Yet the size of the market, the lack of a history with such investments during financial stress and the worry that the clearing mechanism -- the plumbing of the system -- will function when the markets hit the skids are red flags for people in the business who know how quickly the spigot can turn off. 
 ''The fact that the banks are stronger and risk is spread more broadly should make the system more stable,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''We can't know that with certainty though. We'll have a test of that when things next threaten to fall apart.''
 Regulators struggle to imagine what the shock could be, but do know that the reaction will be far different from crises of the past. When Long-Term Capital Management tottered on the brink of collapse in 1998, the credit markets in the United States were controlled by such a small number of institutions that the New York Fed had to make calls to 14 Wall Street banks to try to resolve the crisis. Today, the number of institutions would be vastly higher. 
 Nevertheless, at the center of the universe of credit derivatives are still a handful of institutions that create, trade and manage much of the risk of these products and that also manage the risk of trading by lending to hedge funds. Mr. Geithner's job, when he is not working on monetary policy, is to make sure they are prudently managing that risk.
 He has some background in financial crises. He joined the Treasury Department in 1988 and was noticed by Lawrence Summers, then the Treasury secretary. He was the only career civil servant to become an under secretary of Treasury (for international affairs).
 Mr. Geithner uses wry humor to balance a natural wonkishness. At a recent breakfast at the Council on Foreign Relations, he was asked if he could comment on the Chinese currency's potential impact on the trade deficit. ''Just to be crisp, no,'' he responded with a sly smile. The room filled with laughter. He added that he had spent his youth preparing cards for incoming Treasury secretaries that instructed them in no uncertain terms to avoid answering any question related to the exchange rate. 
 At the same time, his intellect is apparent, captured in paragraph-long responses. During the same breakfast meeting, when someone asked about the factors that could affect the status of the dollar as a reserve currency, an animated Mr. Geithner responded ''great question,'' and then started his answer by recalling an academic paper he had read 15 years ago on the topic, citing its thesis, explaining its logic and remembering the last line as one might remember a line from ''Gone With the Wind.''
 ''He does this Columbo thing,'' Ms. Nazareth said. ''He looks like he's distracted and not listening, and then he'll say, 'Well, I don't know much about this' and then he starts talking and five paragraphs later you realize there is a logical string that connects all of it. And then you realize this kid who doesn't know anything just outdid everyone.''
 When Mr. Geithner arrived at the New York Fed, E. Gerald Corrigan, a former Federal Reserve president himself, suggested that he look at the conclusions of the Counterparty Risk Management Group Report, the report compiled after Long-Term Capital. Mr. Corrigan thought it might be usefulto look at those risks in the context of the rise of private money and the rapidly transforming credit markets. 
 In 2004, Mr. Geithner's staff conducted an extensive review of counterparty risk. But rather than dump its conclusions on the industry, he chose to stay behind the scenes while encouraging Mr. Corrigan to reconvene the group. In January 2005, Mr. Corrigan brought together a group that included some of the most senior executives on Wall Street. Six months later, the group produced a report that made 47 recommendations on issues from the very technical to the philosophical. 
 Central to the report's findings were shocking weaknesses in the way credit derivatives were being assigned and traded around without any sense of who owned what. The so-called ''assignment issue'' was simple: credit derivatives were negotiated by two parties, say JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs. But banks were ''assigning'' the contracts out to others -- like hedge funds -- without telling each other. It was a little bit like lending money to a friend who is really rich who in turn lends it to her deadbeat brother and fails to mention it. 
 ''It violated the first and most sacred principle of banking: know your counterparty,'' Mr. Corrigan said. 
 In September 2005, Mr. Geithner brought together the so-called 14 families of Wall Street and told them to fix the problems they had found. They set goals. Then he raised them. ''You want to have a tipping-point dynamic, where the targets were ambitious enough that they would be forced to put a lot of resources to work, all together, quickly, otherwise you might not get traction," he said. 
 Standards were set, and backlogs came down sharply. One particularly effective tactic was to collect data from everyone and anonymously distribute it to the group so that every bank -- and that bank's regulator -- could see how it measured up.
 The industry felt triumphant about being part of the solution. It was a classic ''collective action'' problem solved: the industry had set an abysmally low standard and no one would budge for fear of losing business, so someone had to move everyone. 
 Improving the processing of credit derivatives was only the first step. Soon after, he initiated a comprehensive examination of stress-testing, looking at how banks measure and test exposure to certain market players and market risks in different kinds of conditions, like the failure of one major firm. Working closely with European regulators, he is looking at the relationship between banks and hedge funds.
 The real test, of course, will be when a crisis hits, whatever the crisis may be. 
 He is currently reading a book about uncertainty in the medical profession. It's a familiar topic. When Mr. Rubin retired from the Treasury, Mr. Geithner provided him a list entitled ''The Rubin Doctrine of International Finance.'' The No. 1 principle? ''The only certainty in life is that nothing is certain.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Timothy F. Geithner has been president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York since 2003. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times))(pg. C1)
 E. Gerald Corrigan, a former chief of the New York Federal Reserve, suggested that Timothy Geithner study the Long-Term Capital crisis. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Credit Derivatives''The global market in credit derivatives -- largely bets on corporate debt -- has had explosive growth in recent years.Graph shows trends since June 2001.(Source by International Swaps and Derivatives Association)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (56%); KENNETH D LEWIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



191 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 798 words

 BODY:
A FOX BUSINESS CHANNEL -- Rupert Murdoch announced that the News Corporation would start a long-awaited business news channel in the fourth quarter of this year. He also vowed that the new channel would be friendlier to corporations than CNBC, the leading television business news outlet. [Page C1.] GAUGING DERIVATIVES -- The calm demeanor of Timothy F. Geithner, the head of Federal Reserve Bank of New York, is being tested as he tries to monitor the $26 trillion credit derivatives market -- twice the size of the United States economy, and the fastest-growing financial market there is. [C1.] TWO IMAGES AT KODAK -- Earlier this week, Eastman Kodak Company unveiled its long-anticipated consumer inkjet printer ''People know we are back on the offensive,'' said Frank Sklarsky, left, Kodak's chief financial officer. 
But two days later Kodak announced it would lay off another 3,000 employees, as the company continues to adjust to a new marketplace. [C1.] SNYDER BUYS RESTAURANT CHAIN -- Daniel M. Snyder, the owner of the Washington Redskins, has agreed to acquire Johnny Rockets, the 1950s-inspired restaurant chain known for employees that sing and dance to vintage pop tunes. Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but analysts estimate its value, including debt, could approach $1 billion. [C1.] TAKING AIM AT GOOGLE -- Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center, or PARC, is licensing patents and technology to a start-up with an ambitious goal: to build a search engine that could some day rival Google. [C3.] A HEDGE FUND, OUT IN THE OPEN -- The first hedge fund and private equity company to go public in the United States, Fortress Investment Group, will make its market debut today at $18.50 a share -- at the high end of its expected price range. [C2.]INVENTORIES FELL IN DECEMBER -- Inventories at the nation's wholesalers declined in December by the most since May 2003 as sales surged, suggesting a manufacturing rebound in coming months. [C2.] A SHAKE-UP AT HSBC -- HSBC's chief executive followed up the bank's first-ever profit warning with a shake-up at the American consumer finance unit where losses from home loans have exceeded expectations. Michael Geoghegan, the chief executive, said difficulties were isolated to HSBC Finance Corporation. [C3.] CREDIT FOR STANDING PAT -- The real estate magnate Steven Roth came in second in the bruising war for Equity Office Properties. But his decision to back away from the bidding may cement his image as a man who does not let his ego get the better of his judgment. [C3.] NO EMBARRASSMENT -- With an anything-goes attitude, marketers of products whose functions used to be whispered about -- like feminine hygiene products and condoms -- are throwing open the portals in their commercials. Advertising. [C6.] THREATENING A RATE INCREASE -- The European Central Bank warned that it could lift interest rates even further from an expected increase in March if European labor unions win wage gains. [C3.] A COMPLICATED END -- The break-up of a big, prestigious law firm is no longer as rare was it once was. But the bankruptcy of Coudert Brothers still stands out as a complicated, messy affair. [C7.] EXXON MOBIL SUED OVER SPILL -- New York State moved to sue Exxon Mobil and four other companies to force them to clean up a half-century-old spill of millions of gallons of oil lying under the Greenpoint neighborhood in Brooklyn. [B1.]Business BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.Circuit City Stores said that it would close about 70 stores, most of them in Canada, and that its chief merchandising officer, Douglas T. Moore, had left as the company responds to increased pressure in the electronics retail market. (REUTERS)John H. Whittier, the former head of Wood River Capital Management, pleaded not guilty to securities fraud and other charges after investors lost at least $88 million when two of its funds collapsed in 2005. (AP)Hand-drawn animation, out of fashion in the computer age, experienced a rescue worthy of a fairy tale on Thursday, when Walt Disney animators announced they would bring the art form back to the big screen. (REUTERS)The Lear Corporation, an auto parts maker, which has received a $2.31 billion buyout offer from the activist investor Carl C. Icahn, was silent on the reasons behind a long trading halt in its shares yesterday. (REUTERS)The health insurer Aetna said that its fourth-quarter profit increased 4 percent as growing medical enrollment lifted revenue from health care premiums. The company also raised its profit forecast for the full year. (AP)The Embarq Corporation said that fourth-quarter profit rose 25 percent as the communications company added more high-speed Internet subscribers and lost fewer local phone customers than expected. (DOW JONES)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows HSBC A.D.R. shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PATENTS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (54%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (93%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (62%); WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (54%); PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER (54%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); FIG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (62%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (55%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); STEVEN ROTH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



192 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Joins Fans Upset by the Plan For Extra Innings

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The pending deal to shift Major League Baseball's Extra Innings package exclusively to DirecTV starting in April is still not ready to be announced, but Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, would like to undo it.
 In that desire, he is no different from the many fans enraged that Extra Innings -- a 10-channel service that transmits out-of-market games for $179 a year -- will disappear from cable TV homes altogether, and will be available only to DirecTV subscribers or, under baseball's banner, on mlb.com.
 ''Here's what bothers me,'' Kerry said yesterday in a telephone interview. ''You get M.L.B. and DirecTV marshaling their forces to go out and make money while cutting out fans. In my judgment, more fans watching games strengthens baseball.'' 
 He added, ''There's a whole movement toward fans being screwed by consolidation which raises prices and reduces options.''
 DirecTV has agreed to pay $700 million over seven years to carry Extra Innings and a new baseball channel (which will begin in 2009).
 Kerry isn't sure the deal can be scotched, but last week he wrote to Kevin Martin, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, asking him to investigate it. 
 ''The F.C.C. doesn't have the right to say, 'You can't do this,' but they have levers that affect this business,'' said Kerry, who sits on the Senate Commerce Committee, which oversees communications. 
 Kerry's demand to alter the deal aligns with the desire of Dan Asnis, a Mets fan from South Brunswick, N.J., who started an online petition to keep Extra Innings on cable.
 ''I felt frustrated that this was happening, and that fans like me had no say in it,'' he said in a telephone interview. Asnis bought Extra Innings last season to watch teams whose games affected the Mets. He said he would not switch to DirecTV, but would buy mlb.tv, which streams games on mlb.com.
 Asnis's plea on the Internet -- petitiononline.com/MLBCABLE/petition.html -- had gathered 848 signatures by late yesterday afternoon.
 ''We just feel helpless,'' he said.
 If Asnis feels helpless, Senator Arlen Specter does not. Last year, when he was still the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican, fulminated about the antitrust implications of some of the National Football League's TV practices, such as its exclusive deals since 1994 to sell its Sunday Ticket package of out-of-market games to DirecTV. 
 Now, Specter said by telephone: ''Since I found out about the baseball deal, I've asked my antitrust people to do research to confirm my preliminary judgment that it's an antitrust violation. But I don't think I'll be able to stop it.''
 Baseball has a longstanding, Supreme Court-blessed exemption from antitrust laws, except for its labor dealings, which were removed in 1998.
 ''You can't charge baseball with an antitrust violation,'' Specter said, but Congress could continue the exemption on the condition that baseball avoids exclusive deals like the one it will soon announce with DirecTV.
 Still, even that exemption, which some say is not fully defined in its scope, may not protect baseball from a serious antitrust challenge to the DirecTV deal. Gabe Feldman, an associate professor at Tulane Law School, said, ''A few courts have said the exemption does not apply when baseball makes agreements with third parties.''
 Unlike baseball, the N.F.L. lacks a broad, if ambiguous, exemption. But it has had a narrow one (as other leagues do) to collectively sell its teams' broadcast rights as permitted by the Sports Broadcasting Act of 1961, an exemption that Specter would like to get rid of. He joked that he was selling rights to his regular squash games to DirecTV.
 In 1997, a group of DirecTV subscribers filed a class-action suit against the N.F.L. in Federal District Court in Philadelphia saying that the Sunday Ticket package violated antitrust laws partly because it was sold exclusively. The plaintiffs settled for an undisclosed sum before a definitive judgment. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld the lower court's ruling that the 1961 law applied to broadcast deals, not those made with a satellite service.
 Disgruntled former cable (or Dish Network) subscribers of Extra Innings may take a similar route to court. But their success is far from guaranteed.
 In its defense, baseball may argue that it has not restricted the output of games by selling Extra Innings to DirecTV because the games will also be on mlb.tv (and, besides, there is so much local and national baseball on TV). 
 ''Baseball might say there is a process under way that is merging Internet streaming with TV, and anyone who wants the package can go to mlb.com,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College.
 But baseball may open itself to a counterargument that because it controls mlb.com, it is offering an option to its DirecTV deal -- a type of eyebrow-arching vertical integration -- that is not purely competitive, with a price that it sets on its own. 
 Meanwhile, we wait for baseball to speak.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); PETITIONS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%) Baseball; Television

COMPANY: DIRECTV (93%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%) Directv Inc

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); ARLEN SPECTER (77%); KEVIN MARTIN (55%) Richard Sandomir; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



193 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Shiite District, Flash Point in Baghdad, Rebuilds

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Wisam A. Habeeb, Hosham Hussein and Ahmad Fadam contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Just past the main checkpoint into Sadr City, children kick soccer balls at goals with new green nets, on fields where mounds of trash covered the ground last summer. A few blocks away, city workers plant palm trees by the road, while men gather at a cafe nearby to chatter and laugh. 
 Sadr City, once infamous as a fetid slum and symbol of Shiite subjugation, is recovering, with the help of $41 million in reconstruction funds from the Shiite-led government, all of it spent since May, according to Iraqi officials, and millions more in American assistance.
But as Shiite areas like Sadr City begin to thrive as self-enclosed fiefs, middle-class Sunni enclaves are withering into abandoned ghettos, starved of government services. 
 Many residents credit a Shiite militia, the Mahdi Army, and its powerful political leader, the radical cleric Moktada al-Sadr, for keeping the area safe enough to allow rebuilding. Yet the Mahdi Army has also killed American troops and has been linked to death squads preying on Sunnis, making the district a potential target as American troops pour into Baghdad to enforce the new security plan. 
 The neighborhood, which is Baghdad's largest Shiite area and was named in honor of Mr. Sadr's father, is a web of contradictions, at once a test of whether its progress can be sustained, a flash point for sectarian tensions and the heart of the government's political and military base. 
 ''Sadr City is different because it has been left without services for 35 years,'' said Hassan al-Shimmari, a Shiite member of Parliament with the Fadila Party. ''And with the presence of the Mahdi Army, and its agenda against the Americans -- that is what makes it disturbing.'' 
 Over three days of interviews in homes, businesses and political offices, residents described their community as tight-knit, often abused and increasingly isolated. 
 Abdul Karim Kassem, the prime minister in the late 1950s and early 1960s, built the neighborhood as a public housing project for the poor. The rectangle of roughly 125,000 homes northeast of central Baghdad covered an area about half the size of Manhattan, with streets in a grid and simple brick homes of about 1,550 square feet. 
 These days, after decades of neglect under Saddam Hussein (though the area was once called Saddam City), many of the houses have been divided into apartments and many more are crumbling. 
 Sadr City officials, including Rahim al-Daraji, the elected mayor, claim that more than two million people live there, almost all Shiites but with a smattering still of Sunnis and Kurds. 
 If that number is correct, the district has a higher population density than Calcutta or Hong Kong, which demographers say is unlikely, given the low-rise architecture. 
 Undeniably, Sadr City has grown in recent months as families moved in from what Iraqis call hot zones, typically Sunni areas where violence has brought daily routines to a standstill. Schools are packed with children, rents have increased and the economy has come alive. 
 More surprising than the pyramids of fruit at the bustling market, near a park with new red fences, are the signs of leisure, like the new children's bicycles with tassels on the handlebars and the silvery computer shops.
 ''Our neighborhood is much better than other areas,'' said Hussail Allawi, 41, in a crowd of men smoking flavored tobacco, a pastime now rare in much of the city. ''The people are cooperative. There are many volunteers, including the Mahdi Army, and we are doing our best.''
 City officials said 16 sewer mains had been cleaned to eliminate the putrid waste that once collected in large puddles, while 22 roads are to be repaved. 
 Louis J. Fintor, a spokesman for the United States Embassy, said American agencies were also working on more than 35 projects, mostly in health and education. He did not identify their locations or say how much money had been spent. ''Getting credit,'' he said, ''is not the motivating force.'' 
 Abu Firas al-Amtari, a spokesman for the Sadr political party in Sadr City, said the American and Iraqi governments spent reconstruction money haphazardly. But he acknowledged that the neighborhood was gaining momentum. 
 ''The situation inside is very good,'' he said in an interview. ''We are always afraid of what comes from other neighborhoods.'' 
 Bombings here have become less common than in other parts of Baghdad, though a coordinated series of explosions last fall killed 144 people. Residents and Sadr party officials said they felt more secure because the Mahdi Army kept watch. As members of the community, militiamen have an advantage. 
 ''The Mahdi are more loyal because they feel they are protecting their own families,'' said Ahmed Hashem, 30.
 Sadr officials have seized on a simpler refrain: The Mahdi Army makes peace, not war. 
 Mr. Amtari described the militants as humanitarians, community volunteers and part of ''a moral army'' that checked vehicles and enforced the law. Naeem al-Kabbi, a deputy mayor affiliated with the Sadr party, said the battles between American troops and the militia in Najaf and Sadr City in 2004 amounted to a misunderstanding -- though American troops said they had come under attack while doing little more than running patrols. 
 Seemingly determined to clean the tarnished Mahdi image, Sadr officials said the militia's members would disarm temporarily during the Baghdad security plan, even if Sunnis or Americans attacked. ''Whatever the provocation, with the surge against us or anything else, we will not kidnap anyone or take revenge by ourselves,'' said Mr. Daraji, the mayor, who has been negotiating with American and Iraqi officials over the role of the militia. ''We will leave everything to the government.''
 Sunni officials said Sadr officials had calculated that if they stayed quiet for the security plan, American troops would eventually withdraw, giving Shiites even more freedom to exercise power. 
 Salim Abdullah, a senior Sunni member of Parliament, added that the security plan's impact would be blunted in Sadr City because Shiite militias had infiltrated the Iraqi security forces, and could tip off Mahdi militants before raids began. 
 An open question is whether all the Mahdi fighters will obey orders not to fight. Some residents, who declined to give their names, described the Mahdi Army as a loose collection of often rival and rogue groups, and said arrests -- on, say, an especially volatile anti-American street -- could set off firefights with the arrestees' families and neighbors, even if senior Mahdi commanders remained uninvolved. 
 But like the streets themselves, the community's relationship with the militia seemed to be changing. The Sadr organization, whose members once whipped people on the streets for selling alcohol, now works out of a centrally located office that has expanded from a squat one-story building into a small campus with fresh white paint and a covered courtyard. It has the feel of an American post office. 
 Residents said the building reflected the move from insurgent group to established player. After winning control of six ministries and 30 seats in Parliament, residents said, the Sadrists have become a more traditionally political, less religious force, with leaders primarily interested in safety and power. 
 There is still a saying in Sadr City that if you anger the Mahdi, ''They'll throw you in the trunk,'' a reference to their notorious gangsterism. And the American military has clearly taken a harder line. Citing evidence that militia members killed Americans and innocent civilians, American troops have arrested or killed several Mahdi commanders in recent weeks as part of their efforts to pacify the capital. 
 In the latest move, on Thursday, American forces raided the Health Ministry and detained a deputy minister whom they accused of ferrying weapons and militants across Sadr City in ambulances to thwart American raids. 
 Some residents and officials acknowledge that their sprawling neighborhood includes men who contribute to Baghdad's cycle of violence. One resident said few people had protested the recent increase in American raids because it was clear that some members of the Mahdi Army cared less for the neighborhood than they did for killing and cash. 
 But in interviews, even critics of the Mahdi Army said that security and economics mattered most, and that as long as the militia kept the neighborhood safe enough to function, it could count on tacit support. 
 Mr. Allawi, the man smoking at the cafe, said ''the people are satisfied'' with the spoils of Sadr control. 
 Muhammad Issa Sachit, 38, a mechanic for the city government who has lived and worked in Sadr City for more than 20 years, said families received a stable fuel supply at competitive prices from the Mahdi Army, more than what most Baghdad communities could depend on. 
 He also said that when a Sunni neighbor died in a bombing a few months ago, the Mahdi Army rushed in to help the family. ''They paid for everything -- the funeral, the burial, the food,'' he said. 
 The man's wife and children left soon afterward. The house was still empty last week. 
 Mr. Sachit denied that the family's move had anything to do with a fear of Shiites. Sitting on a green rug in his simple home, he seemed to feel that his neighbor's death was mainly a story of Mahdi Army generosity.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Using horsepower to deliver propane power. Under the protection of the Shiite-led government and the Mahdi Army, and with aid projects by American agencies, the area has become relatively calm and safe.
Hussail Allawi, in cap, a laborer relaxing at a cafe in Sadr City, says of the Shiite district, ''Our neighborhood is much better than other areas.'' (Photographs by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 In Sadr City, residents can enjoy routine market days and some prosperity, protected by the Mahdi Army and aided by the Shiite-run government. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of Iraq highlighting Sadr City. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%); MAYORS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Finances; Security and Warning Systems; Bombs and Explosives

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%) Damien Cave; Wisam A Habeeb; Hosham Hussein; Ahmad Fadam; Moktada Al- Sadr; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (58%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Sadr City (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



194 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: NATO Asked to Meet Promises Already Made to Afghanistan

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: SEVILLE, Spain, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, attending his first conference of NATO defense ministers, told these American allies that they must fulfill their commitments to provide troops for Afghanistan in time for a spring offensive against the Taliban.
 Mr. Gates and other NATO officials said progress had already been made on one issue, getting NATO members to lift some of their individual restrictions on the types of operations their forces would be allowed to carry out in Afghanistan.
The goal of the two-day defense ministers' conference here, NATO leaders stressed, was not to obtain new promises of troops and equipment, but rather to compel the member nations to keep the promises they had already made for the organization-led force that provides security operations in Afghanistan. 
 However, the defense ministers also discussed a new assessment of the situation in Afghanistan prepared by Gen. John Craddock of the United States Army, who recently took over as the supreme allied commander in Europe.
 General Craddock's classified review, called a Combined Joint Statement of Requirements, proposes new force levels, and NATO officials say privately that it seeks commitments of about 2,000 additional troops as well as more helicopters and transport aircraft.
 Gen. David J. Richards of Britain, the previous NATO commander in Afghanistan, had said last month that unmet pledges of troops and equipment from NATO countries left him 10 to 15 percent short of the forces he needed.
 NATO has about 35,000 troops in Afghanistan, about 13,000 of them American. The United States has an additional 9,000 troops in Afghanistan operating outside the NATO mission, handling tasks like specialized counterterrorism work and helping to train Afghan forces. An American, Gen. Dan K. McNeill of the Army, took command of the NATO mission this month, reporting to General Craddock.
 ''There are no formal decisions taken,'' Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the alliance's secretary general, said when asked whether the defense ministers had moved toward new troop commitments. ''It also is not a force-generation meeting.''
 Even so, senior officials of NATO nations said more troops were needed because past pledges remained unfulfilled. But they declined to reveal the number of troops or the nations, citing diplomatic sensitivities. 
 ''There is still a request out there for additional forces,'' said one senior American official traveling with Mr. Gates.
 In the years since they were removed from power by the American-led invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, Taliban fighters there have tended to lie low during the mountainous country's harsh winter and return to action when the weather warms.
 Mr. Gates said the goal this year is to have alliance forces ready to beat them to the punch.
 ''The spring offensive in Afghanistan should be our offensive,'' Mr. Gates said. ''I am optimistic we are going to be successful.''
 Mr. Gates said he had reaffirmed to the NATO allies that he would extend for 120 days the tour of a brigade of Army troops. He also cited the United States' promise of $8.6 billion for Afghanistan's security forces and $2 billion more for economic development.
 NATO officials say Germany has announced that it will add six combat aircraft to the Afghanistan effort to conduct reconnaissance missions. Other nations have said they will send more security trainers.
 But Germany's offer seemed somewhat tempered by comments from Franz-Josef Jung, the defense minister. ''I do not think it is right to talk about more and more military means,'' he said according to German press accounts. ''When the Russians were in Afghanistan they had 100,000 troops and didn't win.''
 Asked about those comments, Mr. Gates said the NATO defense ministers had agreed it was important to adopt a comprehensive approach in Afghanistan that would include military action but also bolster programs to improve the economy and government -- and to counter the narcotics trade.
 American commanders have said that the NATO mission in Afghanistan has been hampered by restrictions, known as national caveats, that some governments placed on their units.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (93%); ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); HELICOPTERS (66%); TERRORISM (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (56%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); JAAP DE HOOP SCHEFFER (58%) Thom Shanker; John (Brig Gen) Craddock; Robert M (Sec) Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (75%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



195 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 63 words

 BODY:
An article on Feb. 1 about a visit to New York City by President Bush, and his relationship with the city, referred incorrectly to the ''Ford to City: Drop Dead'' headline that appeared in The Daily News following President Gerald R. Ford's decision not to bail the city out from a financial crisis. It was published more than 31 years ago, on Oct. 30, 1975 -- not 30 years ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (83%) Correction Stories; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



196 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STATEHOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Less May Be More, But in Idaho, Not for Long

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho, Feb. 2 

 BODY:
When Gov. C. L. Otter took office last month and immediately halted construction work on the state Capitol his objections went beyond the $130 million price tag for the renovation and addition.
 ''My concern is also about the expansion of government,'' said Mr. Otter, a Republican. ''When you have more space, bureaucracy doesn't like an empty office. It creates a vacuum. It sucks people into it, and all of a sudden you've got to have more people.''
The governor has since reached a deal with the Republican-controlled Legislature to cut the project in half, allowing construction to go forward, although not until the new individual offices for legislators are removed from the blueprints. 
 Yet if Mr. Otter won this round, he might well savor the moment because Idaho's government is growing whether or not government buildings grow with it. 
 In a conservative state that has long viewed government with suspicion, that still means conflict. But even the governor's fellow Republicans concede that the momentum here shifted years ago from bait-and-bullet to New West boutique. As with so many other decreasingly rugged places in the inland West, there is more of everybody in Idaho now: techies, Democrats, immigrants, environmentalists. Ten thousand people showed up at Boise State University last month to hear Al Gore talk about global warming. Ten thousand people. To hear Al Gore. In Idaho.
 The state's population, almost 1.5 million, is up nearly 50 percent since 1990 and some projections show it gaining another 50 percent or more by 2020.
 While the growth has brought a sophisticated new economy, it has also brought demands for more spending on education and transportation and concerns about high taxes, too much development and a trampled environment.
 And a ton more government.
 In 1991, the state budget was $900 million. This year it is $2.6 billion. In 1985, there were 11,876 state employees. In 2005, there were 17,528. 
 In 1985, the number of pages of legislation passed was 759. Last year it was 1,581.
 The public spaces where many of the issues are aired, however, are the same small hearing rooms, some with a single row of chairs for the public, where part-time lawmakers and a few interested stakeholders once wrangled largely over matters of mining, farming and logging.
 Now, although the Legislature is still part-time, people squeeze into the back of hearing rooms, huddle in doorways or crowd around speakers that broadcast committee discussions out into the rotunda. (The volume dial on the speaker outside one hearing room was turned all the way up to 10 this week.)
 ''It was designed to not have very much public participation in the process,'' Speaker of the House Lawerence E. Denney said of the Capitol.
 While there now are more citizens who follow the Legislature, more people are paid to participate as well. About 75 lobbyists were members of the Idaho Legislative Advisors when Jan Eyth first started serving coffee and snacks in the group's tiny lounge on the Capitol's fourth floor in 1985. Now, Ms. Eyth said, there are more than 150 members, and there are more than 300 registered lobbyists in the state.
 Still, some say, interpret this change carefully.
 ''You know what lobbyists are?'' said Russell Westerberg, a lobbyist from Soda Springs who came to Boise as a state representative in 1975. ''They're the people that the people have to pay to protect them from the people that they elected.'' He added, ''It's still Idaho; the government that governs least, governs best.''
 The Capitol, in which a light-filled rotunda is lined with bright marble, once housed the Legislature, the governor's office, the Supreme Court and even a mineral laboratory. Now, the state spends $13 million a year renting about 900,000 square feet of private office space.
 All of that prevailed upon Mr. Otter, to a degree. Under the compromise with the Legislature, which had approved the expansion a year ago, new underground wings will be reduced in size and many new offices will be cut. Larger hearing rooms will be built, however, and renovations at the Capitol will go forward.
 Still, neither side claims to be happy with the deal, and no one is certain whether much money will be saved. The commission overseeing the project has asked to see a revised budget before moving forward. That could take weeks. 
 Nonetheless, lawmakers will move out of the Capitol in April. The Legislature, which had planned to hold its 2008 and 2009 sessions in temporary quarters in two aging buildings nearby, now will probably be displaced through the 2010 session because of the delays in construction.The governor, who under the compromise agreed to move some of his staff out of the Capitol, says the state should renovate the buildings and use them permanently. Mr. Otter, a former three-term congressman, said in his campaign for governor last fall that he would ''run government the old-fashioned way, lean and smart.'' In an interview in his office on Friday, he popped up from his chair to retrieve photographs of a schoolyard cluttered with temporary classrooms. Then he showed a picture of the state Capitol in Texas, whose underground expansion wings were a model for the Idaho plan.
 ''This is where they want kids to spend nine months,'' Mr. Otter said. ''This is where they want to spend three months.''
 Senator Robert L. Geddes, who is the president pro tem and one of the leaders of the expansion project, conceded that legislators could only put up so much of a fight, even in a changing state.
 ''The vision of a grandiose Taj Mahal being built for the comfort of me,'' Mr. Geddes said, ''that doesn't sit real well in my conservative district.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. C. L. Otter has modified plans to expand the Idaho Capitol.
 People squeeze into hearing rooms like this one in the Idaho Capitol or gather at speakers that broadcast committee discussions into the rotunda. (Photographs by Chad Case for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LEGISLATION (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: BOISE STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: AL GORE (56%) William Yardley; C L (Gov) Otter

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (93%) IDAHO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Idaho; Idaho

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



197 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Not Their Parents' Russia

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russia today is a country that takes three hands to describe. 
 On the one hand, it is impossible any more to call Vladimir Putin's government ''democratic,'' given the way it has neutered the Russian Parliament, intimidated or taken over much of the Russian press, subordinated the judiciary and coercively extended its control over the country's key energy companies.
 On the other hand, it is obvious talking to Russians how much the humiliating and dispiriting turmoil that accompanied Boris Yeltsin's first stab at democracy -- after the collapse of Communism -- left many people here starved for a strong leader, a stable economy and stores with Western consumer goods. Mr. Putin is popular for a reason. 
 And on the third hand, while today's Russia may be a crazy quilt of capitalist czars, mobsters, nationalists and aspiring democrats, it is not the totalitarian Soviet Union. It has more than a touch of the authoritarianism of postwar Gaullist France and a large spoonful of the corruption and messiness of postwar Italy -- when those countries emerged from World War II as less than perfect democracies. 
 But 60 years later, after huge growth in their per capita incomes, France and Italy now help to anchor Western Europe. For all of their shortcomings, their postwar governments provided the context for the true democratic agent of change to come of age -- something that takes 9 months and 21 years to produce -- a generation raised on basically free markets and free politics. I still think Russia will follow a similar path -- in time.
 ''In historical terms, the transition will be very fast,'' Boris Makarenko, deputy chief of Russia's Center for Political Technologies, said to me. ''But I am 47. I am in a hurry. I am very optimistic [though] for my daughter, who is 15. I can see the normal middle class rising here. It's all about shape and pace. When will we get there, I don't know -- we will get there, but probably not fast enough for me to see.''
 The Yeltsin democratic experiment is over, to be sure, added Rose Gottemoeller, director of the Carnegie Endowment's Moscow office, ''because it was delegitimized by the 1998 ruble crash and because it was a time of supreme corruption and dominance by oligarchs -- but the Russian democratic experiment is not over because Russia is such a changed place.''
 Ms. Gottemoeller, an American, told me she recently visited Ulyanovsk, Lenin's birthplace, in the heart of Russia's aging industrial rust belt, and went out to dinner with three Russian couples, all new entrepreneurs.
 ''After they plied me with drinks,'' she recalled, ''they said: 'O.K., we have a question. We want to know how you define middle class' -- and did I think they were middle class? And that just flummoxed me. They wanted to know what middle class was in America. It meant a lot to them to think they were linked up to a broader community of middle class. [They] are not out in the streets with a banner, but their aspirations are huge and in the right direction.''
 People who identify themselves as middle class often end up fighting for legal and civil rights to protect their gains, without even knowing they are fighting for them. That said, the pace of democratization here will most likely depend on three things.
 One is whether this emerging middle class gets so preoccupied with material gains -- thanks to the trickle-down of high oil and gas prices -- that ''it just disconnects from politics,'' Ms. Gottemoeller noted. (Russia today has more cellphones than people!) Another is the genie of Russian nationalism, which can always pop up and derail democratization. Just down the street from my hotel, the Movement Against Illegal Immigration held a march denouncing Jews and immigrants. 
 Third is the price of oil and gas. Anyone who observes Russia can see that the price of oil and the pace of freedom here operate with an inverse correlation. As oil prices go down the pace of freedom goes up, because Russia has to open itself more to the world and empower its people to get ahead. As oil prices go up the pace of freedom goes down, because the government can get by drilling oil wells, rather than unleashing its people.
 ''When oil prices became higher, the reforms became slower,'' said Vladimir Ryzhkov, a liberal Russian Duma member from Altay. ''Russia became a more closed country with a more state-oriented economy. Last year we saw record oil prices and not one reform. [That is the] reason Freedom House last year proclaimed Russia a 'non-free country. ' The question for you Americans is: When will prices go down? It is the only hope for us Russian democrats.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007



198 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Ominous Signs In Ice-Fishing Country

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: SARANAC LAKE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Ernie and Dan Jessie, first cousins and native Adirondackers, sat quietly in the small translucent ice-fishing shack they have shared winter after winter, waiting. Their lines disappeared into the 60-foot depths of Upper Saranac Lake through the perfect circles they had just finished drilling in the ice.
 Ernie Jessie, 78, felt something. A minute later, he held out a slender smelt, its black and silver flank glistening in the diffuse light. ''That's the first smelt of the year on Saranac Lake,'' Mr. Jessie proclaimed with an air of victory. ''It's been a long time.''
It has been a long time. Between them, the cousins -- Dan is 85 -- have ice-fished here for, oh, some 135 years, and it was not until the last week of January that the lake was solid enough to support them, as late a date as either cousin could recall. 
 There was a time when residents could count on the vast lakes of the Adirondacks to freeze over, and stay that way, for a good third of the year. But the strangely mild weather that bathed the Northeast in springlike temperatures through December and January prevented ice until recently, thwarting hockey games, pinching bait and tackle shops, sidelining dog sleds and making some fishermen forsake shacks for canoes.
 The region has since plunged into a deep freeze, taking the Adirondacks with it. But for a part of New York State that views the bitter cold not so much as an endurance test but as an economic lifeline, winter's late arrival -- coming on the heels of other moderate winters and a growing unease about global warming -- has many worrying about the future. 
 ''Here, for months on end it wouldn't go above freezing,'' said Dick Parent, president of the Tupper Lake Rod and Gun Club, who recalled skating as a boy by moonlight. ''The ice would freeze just after Thanksgiving, and it would stay frozen right into late April. We've never faced this before.''
 For John Houghton, who runs a dog-sled business out of nearby Lake Placid, the milder temperatures took an ax to his winter income. With the help of a team of Alaskan huskies (and, occasionally, his son), he has offered rides to tourists for 20 years, usually getting his sled out in time for Christmas. One year, he had to wait until New Year's Day. This year, Mirror Lake, in downtown Lake Placid, did not yield the five or six inches of ''good ice'' until Jan. 20. 
 ''My business is a month behind schedule,'' said Mr. Houghton, who is projecting a 35 percent drop in revenue this winter. ''It hurt me, but it took a bite out of the whole North Country economy. I kind of think the weather comes in cycles, but it's been every year lately when you can definitely see warmer winters.''
 This is the second winter in a row in which unseasonably warm temperatures forced a January pond-hockey tournament on Mirror Lake onto manufactured rinks instead. The organizers of the tournament, which draws men from the United States and Canada, rhapsodized on their Web site about the charms of competing in a natural setting: ''There was something very special about playing hockey on the frozen pond, lake, creek or marsh.''
 But it was not to be. ''The lake had not frozen sufficiently,'' said Sandy Caligiore, a spokesman for the Olympic Regional Development Authority, the state agency that runs the sites of the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid and the ski area at Gore Mountain. ''It would be nice if winter was predictable like it was back in the 1960s and '70s, but now there seems to be no pattern to it. As a result, sometimes you do hold your breath.''
 The Adirondacks are not alone in grappling with waning winters. In Minnesota, cold temperatures finally brought snow and ice in mid-January -- too late to salvage the 24th annual Golden Rainbow ice-fishing tournament in Forest Lake, just north of St. Paul. This was the fourth winter in which the tournament, which once drew thousands of competitors, was canceled because of thin ice; next year, it is being permanently relocated farther north.
 ''The locals were disappointed that it was moved because of the effect on business,'' said Chuck Lennon, a spokesman for Minnesota's official tourism office. ''There's a lot of spending that goes on in a real concentrated period in a small town like that.''
 Meteorologists say that what made this winter unusual, though not unprecedented, was the duration of the warm spell. ''In the normal course of a winter, it gets mild, with temperatures in the '50s,'' said Jeff Warner, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University. ''But for a month and a half we were in a pattern where we had consistent southwesterly flow that was drawing mild air. It was basically stuck.'' 
 Before the blast of cold that brought the mercury in the Adirondacks below zero all but two days in the second half of January, the weather here was balmy, at least by the standards of the six-million-acre park. In the first two weeks of January, for instance, the temperature did not fall below zero once in Saranac Lake, and it dropped below 10 on only one day. 
 In December, it fell below zero just twice. No town in the Adirondacks keeps official long-term temperature records, Mr. Warner said, but Burlington, Vt., which is 60 miles from here and usually several degrees warmer, normally has below-zero weather 5 days in December and 10 in January. ''This was an extraordinary departure from normal,'' Mr. Warner said. ''It's really just remarkable.'' 
 But Mr. Warner cautioned against pinning monthly or yearly changes in temperature on global warming, pointing out that the 1930s were also ''extremely warm.'' 
 The recent chill is more typical: On several nights at the end of January, temperatures sank to 20 degrees below zero or lower. But people here are prepared, equipped with insulated boots, all-wheel drive and wood stoves, among other must-haves. Many seem to thrive on the frigid temperatures. 
 ''You've got to have cold weather in this neck of the woods to make it,'' Ernie Jessie explained as he hammered studs into the tires of his all-terrain vehicle, just hours after the thermometer hit 26 below zero in Saranac Lake.
 But, worldwide, 11 of the 12 warmest years on record have occurred since 1995. With the recent release of an international report declaring global warming ''unequivocal,'' many local merchants who depend on cold-weather tourism are anxious. 
 Ali Hamdan, an owner of Hoss's Country Corner, a general store in Long Lake, about 30 miles from here, said this winter's tardiness could spell disaster. The store did not sell a single bit of live bait until Jan. 19.
 ''I wasn't worried about global warming before, but now I am,'' said Mr. Hamdan, who bought the store with his business partner, Julia Pierce, three years ago. ''I'm worried about making it through this winter. It's too late now for us. We won't make up for what we lost.''
 For others, winter's delay seemed to toy more with their mental health than with any bottom line.
 Ron Sauvie, a retired Tupper Lake resident, usually drags his barn-red ice shack out on Saranac Lake well before Christmas. But this winter the shack did not make its debut until well after Martin Luther King's Birthday. 
 ''The weather's been crazy,'' he said. ''It kind of messes me up.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ernie Jessie with one of his first catches of the season, which did not begin until late January.
 With ice fishing on Upper Saranac Lake finally under way, Dan Jessie, left, and his cousin Ernie Jessie, prepared to get down to business recently. (Photographs by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (95%); SPORT FISHING (92%); FISHES (90%); LAKES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TRENDS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); WEATHER (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); THANKSGIVING (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Weather; Ice Fishing ; Global Warming; Economic Conditions and Trends; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) Adirondack Mountains; New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



199 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Nations Announce Plan To Develop and Pay for Vaccines

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: ROME, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Officials from a handful of wealthy nations initiated a long-awaited plan on Friday to support and finance the development of vaccines for children in poorer countries, and to purchase the vaccine once it is produced. 
 The first phase of the program, which is called the Advance Market Commitment, will cover the pneumococcal vaccine, a shot that is effective at preventing deadly pneumonia in children. It is not well suited for use in the developing world because it is expensive and, in its current version, does not protect against some strains common in poor countries.
The program, to be financed through donations from the governments, will cost $1.5 billion and is expected to prevent 5.4 million deaths among children by 2030, according to the World Bank and GAVI, the global vaccine fund that provided technical assistance. A pneumococcal vaccine for children has been widely used in the United States and other developed nations since the late 1990s.
 Under the new plan, led by the Italian government, the developed nations will promise to purchase vaccines in the future on behalf of poor countries that request them, provided that the vaccines meet the plan's standards. The pool of money provides incentive for drug makers to create vaccines tailored for use in the developing world as well as to increase production capacity to accommodate the need.
 Normally, the market does not provide such incentives because most poor countries cannot afford the vaccines on their own. The countries involved in the Advance Market Commitment project decided to start with the pneumococcal vaccine because it could be brought to market quickly.
 The program ''creates market incentives where the private market fails,'' said Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, the Italian finance minister, at an assembly gathered in Rome to introduce the program. Also at the gathering were Queen Rania of Jordan; Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer; and Paul D. Wolfowitz, president of the World Bank.
 Italy, Canada, Norway, Britain and Russia have pledged money. ''This day is a great one for the poor women and children of the world,'' said Heatherwick Ntaba, a former health minister of Malawi.
 The Advance Market Commitment is one of several new programs by wealthy nations intended to bring better health care to the developing world, particularly Africa, which is being devastated by H.I.V. and AIDS.
 Another initiative, championed by the French, uses an airline tax to buy medicines for poor nations.
 But this is the first to focus on a vaccine, which aims to prevent disease, in this case pneumonia. In the future, the group hopes to start similar efforts for vaccines against malaria and other diseases.
 ''It is a real challenge to see if we can come up with new mechanisms to make vaccines available and affordable in developing countries,'' said Tido von Schoen-Angerer, director of the campaign for essential medicines at Doctors Without Borders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (93%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (91%); BIOLOGICS MFG (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PNEUMONIA (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BACTERIA (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); MALARIA (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%) Medicine and Health; Vaccination and Immunization; Finances; Children and Youth; Third World and Developing Countries; Pneumonia

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (51%) Elisabeth Rosenthal

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%) ITALY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MALAWI (79%); AFRICA (79%); JORDAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



200 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: In Palestinian Peace Deal, Hope and a Political Snare

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington, and Khaled Abu Aker and Taghreed El-Khodary from Ramallah, West Bank.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
The agreement in Mecca between Fatah and Hamas on how to form a unity government was greeted with relief by many Palestinians on Friday as their best hope for an end to the fighting among them that has killed nearly 100 Palestinians since December.
 But it poses a challenge for the Bush administration, which, along with Israel and several European countries, wants the new government to meet three benchmarks for normal relations: recognize the right of Israel to exist, forswear violence and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements. Without the three -- and the Mecca accord does not accept them -- an international boycott on the Palestinians would continue. 
The administration will have to work hard to keep unity among its partners in the quartet -- the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations -- on the three conditions.
 Russia has already demurred, welcoming the accord and saying that once the new government is formed it ''should be combined with lifting a blockade of the Palestinian territories which has inflicted suffering and hardship to the people.''
 The French also welcomed the deal, but the European Union spokeswoman, Emma Udwin, was cautious, saying that all parties agreed ''to take the time to consider, to see what the agreement is and how it is going to be implemented'' before deciding whether to lift the embargo.
 The United States will also be reluctant to dismiss the Saudis' accomplishments as brokers of the accord, given Washington's interest in creating a broader moderate Arab coalition, including Egypt, Jordan and the Persian Gulf countries, to confront Iran's nuclear ambitions and regional reach.
 Already, Hamas has appealed for talks with the Europeans. Western nations ''cannot ignore this agreement and impose their own conditions,'' said Ghazi Hamad, the Hamas government spokesman. ''The European Union should open a dialogue with this new government, and this is the only way to have stability in the region.''
 The accord for the new government does not promise to stop attacks on Israel and Israelis, though one of the documents it referred to urges Palestinians to ''focus'' attacks on Israeli-occupied areas outside the 1967 boundary lines.
 As for recognizing Israel, Nizar Rayyan, a Hamas spokesman, was explicit. ''We will never recognize Israel,'' he told Reuters in Gaza. ''There is nothing called Israel, neither in reality nor in the imagination.''
 The Palestinian Authority's president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, pressed by Washington, wanted a new government to accept previous agreements on the basis of which the Palestinian Authority itself exists. But Hamas, which will still dominate the new government, agreed only to ''respect'' previous agreements, not to accept them.
 For Mr. Abbas, aides said, the most important accomplishment of the Mecca meeting was to try to stop the bloodletting, which was humiliating to Palestinians and to the Arab and other governments that support them. Sufian Abu Zaida, a former Fatah minister of prisoners and an aide to Mr. Abbas, said: ''The main goal of this agreement is to save Palestinian blood. If they succeed in this, it's a successful meeting. But in the long run, if they can't end the economic and political siege, there is no guarantee that the government will last very long.''
 But Mr. Abbas also looked weak, put by the Saudis in a position of symbolic equality with the exiled Hamas political leader Khaled Meshal and unable to produce an agreement on the international benchmarks. A new government would also mean that Mr. Abbas's threat to call early legislative and presidential elections would be hollow.
 Fatah will take six positions in the new government, most of them relatively minor except that of deputy prime minister, which is likely to be filled by Muhammad Dahlan. Hamas will also continue to control the critical Interior Ministry through a so-called independent figure nominated by Hamas.
 Many difficult issues are unresolved, including Hamas's demands for reform of the Palestine Liberation Organization, as well as who might fill particular cabinet posts.
 An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity before a full official government response, suggested that if Washington considered Mr. Abbas to have been compromised by the agreement -- brought closer to Hamas, rather than Hamas brought closer to him -- ''it could have repercussions'' for the planned summit meeting on Feb. 19 between the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, and Mr. Abbas, to be led by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.
 No one expects serious peace negotiations with Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas so weakened politically, but the talks may become more of a conflict management exercise than before. The United States warned Mr. Abbas about the dangers of a unity government headed by Hamas. Tzachi Hanegbi, chairman of Parliament's foreign and defense committee, said that Mr. Abbas ''failed completely and awarded a significant victory to Hamas.'' As a result, he told Israel Radio, ''the chance of advancing an effective initiative and an agreement between Israel and the Palestinians has receded.''
 Saudi Arabia, for its part, emerges as a winner for playing host to the meeting, taking responsibility for the Palestinian cause and lessening the influence of Shiite Iran on Hamas.
 Hamas emerges as a winner for sticking to its refusal to bow to Western demands and recognize Israel, renounce ''resistance'' or accept previous agreements like the 1993 Oslo accords, while co-opting Fatah into the ''unity'' government Hamas wanted and short-circuiting any threat of early elections.
 Ordinary Palestinians will feel they are winners if the killing stops. In Jerusalem's Old City on Friday, Abbas Abu Helem, 36, who sells clothes in a stall, said he hoped that the Mecca talks would be a success.
 ''I hope it will stop the fighting,'' he said. ''We now have a deal, and I hope the factions can work together, because our life keeps getting harder and harder.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BOYCOTTS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); POLITICS (69%) Palestinians; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) Fatah; Hamas

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) Steven Erlanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (54%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); GULF STATES (69%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007

 
