

201 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: The Question Of Leftovers, Ever Fresh

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD

 BODY:
LIKE many things located at the intersection of obligation and potential pleasure -- music recitals, family outings, the theater -- leftovers are a source of complicated emotion. Just ask Diana Abu-Jaber, a novelist who once wrote a memoir told through food, ''The Language of Baklava.'' 
 At a party she held at her house in Portland, Ore., in 2001 to celebrate her marriage, two of her neighbors brought her a gift: a Mason jar with a jaunty red bow on it. ''It seemed to contain chunks of some sort of appalling turgid brownish oozing cake,'' Ms. Abu-Jaber said. It came with a note of explanation that read: ''This half loaf of zucchini chocolate bread was a (failed) experiment. But maybe you will like it. Happy marriage!'' 
 ''To this day, we marvel at whatever might have possessed them to pass that on to us,'' Ms. Abu-Jaber said. 
 We think of leftovers with special frequency during a recession because they represent our efforts to be economical. Frugality may be a virtue, but there is no denying that when it comes to leftovers, people get a little nutty. 
 That some foods, but not all foods, are more flavorsome the day after they're made doesn't seem to simplify matters. As Ms. Abu-Jaber put it: ''Lots of dishes improve with time, and leftovers can be the sweetest sort of offering. They imply that you share a home-style friendship, that you aren't company, but family. But sometimes leftovers are just that -- the stuff no one wanted to eat the first time around.''
 The complicated emotions can persist even when there's no cooking involved. 
 Annabelle Gurwitch, a host of the eco-living show ''Wa$ted'' on the cable network Planet Green, got a call from a neighbor in early May asking for the rest of the Irish cheese from Costco that the neighbor had left at the Gurwitches' house in Los Angeles four nights earlier. So the next morning Ms. Gurwitch's husband drove to the neighbor's house, dutifully returning custody of the eight ounces of cheese.
 ''I did feel odd giving it back,'' Ms. Gurwitch said. ''I felt like it was ours now.'' But revenge was soon hers: a week later, dining at the cheese-revoking neighbor's house, Ms. Gurwitch absconded with a loaf of bread that she hadn't even brought.
 In some instances, the inherent virtuousness of dispensing the world's uneaten foods seems to fuel, if not provide rationalization for, some odd behavior. 
 Natasha Lehrer, an editor and writer, explained that when her mother and aunt were studying at, respectively, Oxford and Cambridge, their father, George Webber, a law professor at University College London, regularly mailed his two daughters the legs from his and his wife's roast chicken. On Friday nights, he would wrap the legs in aluminum foil, put them in envelopes, and then pop them into the mail on his way to synagogue on Saturday morning.
 ''He was the Jewish mother of the family, my grandmother failing to fulfill the role,'' Ms. Lehrer wrote in an e-mail message. She added that her mother ate the contents of her strange and bulbous care packages but that her aunt did not. ''There is some truth to the notion that my mother was the obedient daughter (ate the leg), and her sister the rebel (threw it away).''
 In other instances, the unusual leftovers-inspired behavior is motivated less by a neurotic compulsion to dispense than by a dogged attempt to deplete. 
 Clement Gaujal, a customer quality representative for Nissan who grew up in Paris, recalled that his mother had a tenuous grasp of batch size when it came to lentils, and often ended up serving their leftovers for three or four days in a row. So, after buying a small notebook filled with graph paper, Mrs. Gaujal started a lentils diary: she and her husband and four sons would chronicle how the lentils were prepared at each meal, how much was eaten by various members of the family, what was discussed during the meal, and, of course, what percentage of the offerings were left uneaten. Any family member not in attendance at any given meal was the subject of mild, legume-based ridicule.
 Whether it takes the form of harassing (Ms. Abu-Jaber's neighbors), stealing (Ms. Gurwitch), smothering (Mr. Webber) or snickering (the Gaujals), the way we deal with leftovers can say a lot about who we are.
 As Marvalene Hughes, now the president of Dillard University, wrote in her essay, ''Soul, Black Women, and Food,'' one reason leftovers are so prominent in black American culture is because most of the foods that are labeled soul food, from chicken backs to ham hocks to oxtails, were once foods that white slaveholders deemed undesirable and gave to their slaves. ''The survival-oriented black woman trusts her creative skills to 'make something out of nothing,' '' Dr. Hughes wrote. ''She acquired the unique survival ability to cook (and therefore use) all parts of everything.'' 
 Which may help to explain the presence of a phenomenon that Steven Thrasher, a freelance writer, has noticed. Mr. Thrasher, whose mother was white and whose father was black, finds it curious that in black American culture, ''you're kind of expected to not only send people home with food, but be stockpiled with industrial-grade take-home containers.'' 
 Readers of Patti LaBelle's cookbook, ''LaBelle Cuisine,'' may remember one of that book's more fraught passages: ''It's not rational I know, but I have a serious thing about my plastic containers. I will give you the food off my stove and shirt off my back, but not my Tupperware! That I want back!'' And she went on: ''People think I'm kidding when I tell them they have to return it within a week, but I'm not. Just ask my niece Stayce. A month after I'd sent her home with several containers of food, she still hadn't brought them back. I called her up and had a hissy fit. I must have fussed at Stayce a good 10 minutes before I realized she was crying.''
 Where, in the leftovers department, are we headed as a culture? The past may shed a light on the future of this culinary idiom. As an article in Time magazine last fall pointed out, ancient humans stored foodstuffs in cool, dark caves; the Greeks and Romans collected snow and ice from mountains. By the 19th century, deliveries of ice for iceboxes were common in America; in the 1920's and 1930's refrigerators started showing up in American homes in large numbers. The '40's brought Tupperware; the '50's, Saran Wrap; the '60's, Ziploc storage bags; the '70's, the first affordable home microwave ovens.
 From damp caves, all the way to microwave ovens: the progression is one of increasingly rarefied and manufactured innovation. This trajectory was encapsulated in a dinner that the novelist Heidi Julavits attended in Maine a few summers ago. A friend and artist named Jetsun Penkalski invited Ms. Julavits -- along with her husband, the writer Ben Marcus, and another writer named Oisin Curran -- to his house in Surrey for a dinner whose theme was to be guessed by the three guests.
 ''What followed was a lot of very strange food with strange stuff done to it,'' Ms. Julavits wrote in an e-mail message. ''For example, one course was served with little toasts mangled with the scalloped edge of a cookie cutter.'' For another course, Mr. Penkalski fried shrimp coated in egg white, arrowroot and sesame seeds, and then mashed it up with a reduction made of the shrimp shells, and smeared the whole thing across his guests' plates.
 Ms. Julavits guessed the theme about a half-hour into the proceedings: ''Turns out the concept was that the whole meal was supposed to have appeared to have been made with leftovers.''
 Far more labor-intensive than a regular meal would have been, Mr. Penkalski's dinner, he said, was ''deconstructed,'' in honor of the fact that all three writers at his table were practitioners and enthusiasts of deconstruction in literature. The tension usually present when leftovers are served to guests -- not to mention the harassing, the stealing, the smothering and the snickering -- was neatly dodged by virtue of the meal's utter unpredictability and painstaking preparation. Best of all, the smeary, mangled repast earned that highest form of praise: there were no leftovers.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about the etiquette of serving leftovers misspelled the name of a town in Maine where a meal was prepared with leftovers. It is Surry, not Surrey.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FEAST OR DREGS?: What's tucked in your fridge?(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE ROY/GETTY IMAGES) CARTOON (CARTOON BY RON BARRETT)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%) OREGON, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



202 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: Crust Is a Canvas for Pizza's New Wave

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
INDISCRIMINATE gluttons and discerning gourmands alike have long been crazy for pizza. But over the last few years, they have elevated their passion to a vocation, sending pizza into a whole new stratosphere of respect. It isn't just loved, and it isn't just devoured. It's scrutinized and fetishized, with a Palin-esque power to polarize.
 Does a wood-burning brick oven yield more flavorful crusts than a coal-burning one? Which flour lends the most character to dough? Is buffalo-milk mozzarella a silky blessing or watery curse?
 On such questions the most durable of friendships have foundered and the most principled of pizza makers -- pizzaioli, they are now called -- part company. 
 ''We've gotten all of a sudden into this 'authentic' scenario,'' said Michael Ayoub, owner of Fornino, a pizzeria in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, referring to the expanding legions of self-regarding artisans around town. ''The only thing they haven't brought over is the water from that polluted Bay of Naples.''
 The flashiest restaurateurs want in on pizza; so do some of the most classically trained, critically acclaimed chefs. Stephen Starr, the owner of Buddakan and an owner of Morimoto, two of the grandest and gaudiest Asian restaurants in downtown Manhattan, has lately spent much of his time in New York eating his way through the city's older and newer pizza parlors, on a gut-busting mission to figure out what works best and how to replicate it in Philadelphia, his base. 
 Pizza is the latest fascination of David Myers, a celebrated Los Angeles chef who has turned from progressive cuisine at Sona to mozzarella and San Marzano tomatoes at Pizzeria Ortica, which he opened early this year in Costa Mesa, Calif.
 Pizza is the obsession of Mathieu Palombino, who once ran the kitchen at BLT Fish, an expensive Manhattan restaurant, but now steers Motorino, a modern pizza parlor in Williamsburg, that opened late last year. Jean-Georges Vongerichten, too, has gotten into the act. He's an investor in Co., the Chelsea pizza place whose debut in January attracted the sort of food-world buzz once reserved for fussier fare.
 Pizza connoisseurs bicker endlessly about where to find the best pies. And thanks to the brisk pace of high-profile openings in New York over the last few years -- and especially the last six months -- they have more serious local contenders than ever to bicker about.
 Many give the crown to Lucali, which opened in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, in 2006, and charges $34 (cash only!) for a pie with cheese, tomato, pepperoni and mushrooms. Others swear by Zero Otto Nove, which came along a bit later on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx.
 I've heard plugs for the misleadingly named Salvatore of SoHo, which began churning out coal-oven pies in a Staten Island strip mall last year, and for Keste, which unveiled its gorgeous tiled oven in the West Village in March, a pizza-mad month when other instant favorites, including Anselmo's, in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, made their debut.
 Over recent weeks I visited those restaurants and others that belong to this current chapter in pizza worship.
 I looked for the most dependable pizza verities and the most enjoyable pizzas, and didn't confine myself to one style: Neapolitan, Roman (thinner, more crackerlike crusts) or Sicilian (deeper, though not deep-dish, pies).
 I did, however, confine myself to places that have opened since 2004, the year that, by my reckoning, inaugurated the chapter in question. That was when Franny's opened in the Prospect Heights section of Brooklyn and Una Pizza Napoletana fired up its oven in the East Village. Both brought a new kind of cachet (and vanity) to pizza making and pizza eating in this city. Both changed its demographics.
 I did not include predecessors like Patsy's, Grimaldi's or Di Fara because they're products of less self-conscious pizza times. Back then a dismissive telephone greeting like the one I once got at Una Pizza Napoletana (''Hello, Una Pizza, we don't deliver!'') would have been more surprising, and a recording like the one at South Brooklyn Pizza, in Carroll Gardens, would have been laughable. The British-accented voice in that recording used the phrases ''exclusive, votive-lit hideaway,'' ''hand-crafted'' and ''custom-made'' in the span of 30 seconds, and mentioned an ''1890s Napoleon brick oven,'' creating ambiguity about whether an Italian region or French emperor was being referenced.
 I paid special attention to places less than a year old. There are scads of them. 
 Why? 
 ''The economy the way it is, pizza's perfect,'' said Mr. Starr, who noted that pizza is relatively gentle on the budgets of consumers and providers.
 ''I have training at high altitude, with all these big restaurants,'' he said, ''and this seems a lot easier -- less money, less pressure. You're concentrating on one thing rather than sous-chefs and pastry chefs.''
 Casting pizza as art and fostering a cult around high-level pizza making are in the interest of food scribes, whether they work for established periodicals or self-financed blogs, because money is tight in those quarters, too, and it's much more affordable to canvass the pizza landscape than to mull over Masa. 
 Pizza suits the casual ethos of the culinary moment, and it fits in with the intensifying reverence for all foods Italian. What's a French-focused chef to do? Terrance Brennan's answer at Bar Artisanal, which he opened in TriBeCa in April, is the pissaladiere, the French version of pizza given little previous exposure.
 On my pizza rounds I developed some firm convictions, but mostly saw that few rules can't be contradicted, and few generalizations hold.
 I believe by and large that Neapolitan pies -- if they can avoid soupiness, as they did at Motorino -- are the most appealing. Yet the pan pizzas at Veloce Pizzeria, which opened in the East Village a month and a half ago, pleased me every bit as much. Sara Jenkins, the chef who supervises their production, said she isn't sure whether to call them Sicilian or grandma style. Whatever their proper tag, these denser, richer, square pies were superb. The nicely charred crust -- with a dough of potato, durum and fine zero-zero flour -- was firm enough to support a generous measure of toppings. Its extra-crisp edges had the salty, zingy flavor and texture of a frico. And the toppings were first-rate, the mushroom pizza showcasing a bevy of hen-of-the-woods.
 I believe that firmer, less runny cheese works better most of the time, and yet the Pugliese pie at Motorino, which uses wet-centered burrata, was a masterpiece, the burrata lending the pie an opulence and creaminess.
 Crisp crusts, it turns out, aren't so difficult: most places I visited had mastered that much. But crusts that are crisp without being dry -- that have some give and suppleness -- are an altogether trickier matter. That's where Lucali, for example, fell down, though the ratio of mozzarella to tomatoes on its plain pie was faultless, and the tomatoes had a beautiful, round flavor. 
 Crusts with character and complexity are also rare. Salvatore of SoHo, a charming restaurant whose flame-throwing coal oven gave its crusts a formidable char, was slightly disappointing on this score. The crusts were one-dimensional. And a pie that advertised sausage had precious little of it.
 An attractively charred look doesn't mean an appealingly charred taste, as Zero Otto Nove illustrated. Its pies were lovely to behold -- and insipid to eat. Zero Otto Nove illustrated, too, that breathtaking ovens and grandly stated goals don't guarantee excellence, or even enjoyment. I got almost no pleasure from the soggy pies at Keste -- including one with sausage that could have come from a Jimmy Dean's freezer package -- though Keste, too, introduced itself as many discerning cuts above a run-of-the-mill slice joint.
 Indeed, the wave of ostensibly principled pizza restaurants since 2004 has produced a mixed bag. Along the broad middle stretch of the spectrum, between undistinguished and outstanding, I'd place L'Asso, in NoLIta; Tonda, the East Village redo of the restaurant the E.U.; Toby's Public House, in Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, which has fine tap beers and a pubby warmth; and Luna Rossa, in Carroll Gardens, whose pies are the best in this little bunch.
 I put Tonda in the bunch less for its pizza, which isn't so distinctive, than for its attractive setting, attentive service and side notes like respectable salads and snacks. Such niceties matter: friends who accompanied me to multiple pizza places said they might be most likely to return to Roberta's, in the Bushwick section of Brooklyn, even though most of its pies were limp and otherwise flawed. They liked the hipster vibe and ultra-casual outdoor area.
 The combination of an utterly soothing or attractive ambience and pizza to swoon over is uncommon, and just as uncommon is consistency, the quality that eludes and bedevils the sporadically transcendent, ultimately frustrating Co., for example.
 Co. is the work, principally, of Jim Lahey, one of the city's master bread makers. His best crusts have a flawless degree of saltiness and are spectacularly blistered. His best pizzas -- for instance the popeye, which weds crisp spinach and a molten mix of three cheeses -- reflect as much thought for the toppings as for their bed.
 But his blisters sometimes cross the line into soot, and on the same recent day when I had yet another terrific popeye, I had an undercooked margherita with a few tiny, shriveled basil leaves and a stingy measure of tomato and cheese, too. What an odd pizza. What a strange place.
 The popeye got me thinking about how much some great pizzas and some great salads have in common. The interplay of cheese, leafy green (or other vegetable) and crust in a pizza isn't so fundamentally different from the interplay of leafy green, cheese and croutons in a salad. There's just been a reallocation of the starring roles and cameos.
 For that matter a great pizza and great pasta are kinfolk. What's a margherita, after all, but a canvas for tomato, cheese and herb with less slickness, more crunch and more portability than noodles? Many of the flavors are the same.
 And be it salad, pasta or pizza, the surest element of success is balance. For pizza that means crispness shouldn't come at the expense of tenderness, the crust can't steal the thunder from the toppings, and toppings can't run roughshod over the crust.
 As for toppings, they should add a whisper of sweetness or murmur of heat to the milky, tangy, wonderful white noise of cheese. All of the pizza places in my list of new-generation favorites understand this. And almost all of my favorite pies exemplify it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OF THE MOMENT: The margherita at Lucali, left, in Carroll Gardens. Below, from oven to table at Motorino in Williamsburg.(pg. D1)
STILL BUBBLING: Lucali, in Carroll Gardens, bakes its pizzas in a wood-fired oven. Anthony Mangieri, below, owns Una Pizza Napoletana in the East Village.
 TOPIC FOR DISCUSSION: CRISPNESS: Co. in Chelsea is run by a bread baker. Above left, the Pugliese pizza at Motorino.(pg. D7)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Topping the List: 1. FILETTI PIZZA Una Pizza Napoletana ($21). The crusts here are puffy, charred, faintly sour works of Neapolitan art, and the sweetness of the fresh cherry or grape tomatoes on this pie provide the perfect complement. 2. MARGHERITA Veloce Pizzeria ($15). A square pan pizza that tastes like the best grilledcheese- with-tomato sandwich you've ever had. The top layer of cheese as well as the edges of the crust take on a flirting-withburnt crispness. 3. PUGLIESEMotorino, above ($15). The crust has character, crispness and suppleness, and the combination of burrata, broccolini, crumbled pork sausage and chilies on top is a study in exquisite balance. 4. PIZZA BIANCA Co. ($4). With a side of ricotta ($3) spread over it, this is a slight cheat of an inclusion, a make-your-own pseudopizza of the highest order, with the right saltiness, crunchiness and gloss of superior olive oil. 5. CLAM PIZZA Franny's ($17). Divinely clammy, with an amalgam of clam juice and cream between squiggles of clam, and a crust that's firm and charred without being dry.(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



203 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: More Permits, Please

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Six Arrested on Permit Fraud Charges,'' July 1: 
 Nine thousand aspiring vendors are on the waiting list for one of New York City's 3,100 mobile food permits. By setting the caps far below vendor supply and public demand, the city unintentionally creates a thriving and exploitative black market, where aspiring vendors ''rent'' permits from illegal middlemen. Other vendors are driven underground, where they're unlicensed and unregulated. Raising the caps to realistic levels would help bring vendors out of the shadows and into the legal mainstream. 
 Cheikh Fall
 New York 
 The writer is the interim director of the Street Vendor Project, a nonprofit organization.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (86%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (85%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (84%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



204 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 41 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on Monday about the effect of volatile prices on the oil industry misstated the status of the United States economy last year. The country was in a recession that started in December 2007; it did not go through 2008 without a recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



205 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: An Enclave of Entertainment in Cleveland

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
Coal and steel and steam were the foundations of Cleveland's 20th-century rise to a prosperous city of nearly one million people -- at one point the nation's fifth-largest. But, today the city is much, much smaller, and its economy relies more on good food, drink and experiences.
 This is highly apparent along 450 feet of East Fourth Street, site of a 600,000-square-foot mixed-use historic redevelopment that The Cleveland Plain Dealer, the city's major newspaper, has characterized as ''the jewel of Cleveland's entertainment district.''
 About a third of the $110 million project is retail space and two-thirds is housing. The redeveloped area has 14 restaurants, eight bars, a 16-lane bowling alley, a coffee shop, a theater, a nightclub and a concert stage that attracts national acts. Above the restaurants, the developer, the Cleveland-based MRN Ltd., has built 322 rental apartments. 
 The last 64 units were finished in March and are being offered at attractive prices. A 1,200-square-foot apartment with two bedrooms and a bath goes for $1,200 a month, for example, said Ari Maron, 31, a partner in the family-owned company. 
 The current vitality of Fourth Street is the culmination of 15 years of work by the Maron family to turn a worn thoroughfare and its old buildings into a prime example of 21st-century urban redevelopment in the Midwest.
 ''In the early 1980s, there were some people who wanted the unwashed, unloved warehouses and flats on East Fourth Street to be demolished,'' said Thomas J. Yablonsky, the executive director of the Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corporation, a Cleveland nonprofit group focused on downtown development. ''Give the Marons credit for the all-encompassing environment and experience they've put in one place there.''
 City leaders and local developers say East Fourth Street is confirmation of an entertainment-focused economic strategy that Cleveland's development executives and lawmakers pursued in the mid-1990s when $650 million was spent on two new stadiums for its major league baseball and football teams, a new arena for the basketball team and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
 East Fourth Street represents about 14 percent of the roughly $800 million in new housing, hotel and retail development in central Cleveland that is deemed to have been spurred by the sports and entertainment investments, according to city redevelopment figures.
 Its success has impressed other developers, among them John J. Ferchill, chairman and chief executive of the Ferchill Group, which is based in Cleveland. ''That place is doing fabulous,'' he said. ''All the pieces fit really well in that space.'' Mr. Ferchill has proposed an entertainment district of similar scope and scale on Washington Boulevard in downtown Detroit, where he recently completed the $200 million historic redevelopment of the Westin Book Cadillac Hotel. 
 Most of all, East Fourth Street reflects the stubbornness and daring of Rick Maron, the founder of MRN Ltd., and Ari's father, who in 1994 bought the five-story Buckeye Building on the northwest corner of Prospect Avenue and East Fourth Street, at the southern end of a tawdry block that in 1985 was designated a national historic district. It was cited as the only intact block of early-20th-century buildings in downtown Cleveland. Ranging in date from 1876 to 1935, the structures represent a diverse collection of architectural styles. 
 It took Mr. Maron a year to build Flannery's Pub, an Irish bar and restaurant, on the ground floor of the Buckeye Building, which was finished in 1906, and to put in 36 apartments above. 
 Though East Fourth Street lies in Cleveland's central business district, where 120,000 people work, and is easily reachable by the 4.5 million people who each year attend professional baseball, basketball and football games and visit the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, it wasn't at all clear that the redevelopment would be successful, Ari Maron said. 
 Fifteen years ago, the city was still reeling from the loss of tens of thousands of factory and industrial jobs and persistently high rates of poverty and crime.
 The city's problems are not entirely in the past. The number of city residents has been falling for six consecutive decades and now measures around 430,000, or less than half the peak population in the early 1950s. The five-county Cleveland region, which has just over two million residents, is also losing residents, almost 60,000 since 2000, according to the Census Bureau. Only the New Orleans and Pittsburgh metropolitan regions have shed more people in that time. 
 But after the Marons saw that crowds consistently gathered at Flannery's before and after baseball and basketball games, and the Buckeye apartments rapidly leased to tenants who didn't run out on their rent, the family set out to buy the 12 other buildings on both sides of the block. 
 It took seven years, Mr. Maron said, to identify, locate and strike deals with more than 250 separate landowners who held title to the properties. Mr. Maron said the slow pace enabled the family to settle on a development strategy and a public-private financing plan that enabled the street to develop organically over time, like a real urban neighborhood. 
 The idea was to recruit a mix of distinctive fine-dining and less expensive restaurants, welcoming watering holes and venues for concerts and shows. Mr. Maron said the family wanted to attract an upscale crowd of professionals and families who were out to have a good time but weren't seeking the rowdiness of, say, the French Quarter of New Orleans.
 ''We knew we had to draw people from the suburbs,'' Mr. Maron said. ''The challenge was that we didn't want this to feel like a shopping center. We have 16 regional shopping centers in the Cleveland area. People here really don't need or want another suburban-style place to shop. That's why we thought entertainment.''
 The Marons added art, flowers, decorative paving, planters, outdoor seating and ribbons of white lights overhead to create atmosphere. They sold federal and state historic tax credits to investors to raise money. The city, through tax breaks, credits and infrastructure grants, invested $10 million to help with street improvements and to lure two major entertainment venues: the Pickwick & Frolic, a restaurant and nightclub, and the House of Blues, a concert producer. 
 They also got lucky when Ohio-born LeBron James, one of the most heralded high school basketball players ever, was drafted in 2003 and turned the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers into a championship contender. 
 East Fourth Street has benefited from the crowds that regularly sell out Cavaliers games in Quicken Loans Arena, about a block away. The added foot traffic, especially during the winter, solidified East Fourth Street's emergence as the anchor of the Historic Gateway Neighborhood, where $450 million has been invested in the last decade to redevelop two other nearby turn-of-the-20th-century historic districts that have become magnets for new businesses and residences. 
 Interesting restaurants are particularly in evidence. Last August, Terry Tarantino, a well-known local Italian restaurant owner, opened La Strada on East Fourth Street, next door to Lola, which is owned and operated by the Food Networks stalwart Michael Symon. On the other side of La Strada is the Greenhouse Tavern, which serves organic cuisine made from locally produced food. Across the street is Zocalo Mexican Grill & Tequileria, widely regarded as one of the best Mexican restaurants in Ohio. 
 ''I came here because I appreciated the thoughtfulness that went into this street and what happens here,'' Mr. Tarantino said. ''It feels like a neighborhood that works. I can tell you, in a bad economy like we're in now, we're doing good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: East Fourth Street was developed slowly by the Maron family, who studded it with eating and entertainment options.
 The Lola restaurant on East Fourth. The street is near professional baseball, basketball and football games and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARNEY TAXEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); FAMILY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); POP & ROCK (68%); BOWLING CENTERS (68%); BOWLING (68%); BASEBALL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



206 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Not Exactly Cheap Chic, but Closer

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
Back when financial markets were still bubbling, hedge fund managers and private equity gurus flocked to the Plaza District, pushing up rents and crowding out some of the neighborhood's traditional tenants, like apparel designers and art dealers. Eventually, one of Manhattan's most fashionable office markets -- which is centered in the East 50s and takes its name from the Plaza Hotel -- became unattainable to all but the lords of high finance.
 Now, however, the For Rent sign is in the front window. 
 More than 7.3 million square feet of Class A office space is available in the Plaza District, up from a low of 2.6 million square feet three years ago.
 The availability rate has topped 15 percent, according to Colliers ABR, and many real estate experts expect it to go higher. Some office space that is scheduled to hit the market in the next few months is not included in those statistics because it is still being built or renovated. 
 The phenomenal rise in rents in the Plaza District during the heady boom years may have contained the seeds of its downfall. Average annual asking rents nearly doubled from around $60 a square foot five years ago, to a peak of nearly $116 a square foot in May 2008. By June of this year, average asking rents had fallen back to around $70 a square foot, according to Colliers ABR. By comparison, average asking office rents for all Class A buildings in Midtown Manhattan rose from $54 five years ago to peak at $99 a square foot last year, before falling back to $70 today.
 ''Rents had certainly gotten somewhat out of control,'' said Robert L. Sammons, the managing director in charge of research at Colliers ABR.
 He pointed out that these figures were averages; at the height of the bubble, some Plaza District landlords were asking as much as $200 a square foot. Brokers say that a handful of leases were signed in the district for around $175 a square foot.
 ''There are only so many companies in any kind of economy that can afford that kind of rent,'' Mr. Sammons said. ''So you wind up pushing people out of the market, and then you only have one kind of tenant.''
 Some brokers say the current situation might make this a good time to relocate to the Plaza District, which sits between 48th and 62nd Streets from the Avenue of the Americas to the East River. 
 Mitchell Konsker, a vice chairman at Cushman & Wakefield, said some clients were reconsidering the area now that rents had fallen back to earth. ''Because of the competitive prices, they can take over existing space or get brand new space for much less than a year ago,'' he said.
 But Mr. Sammons pointed out that many tenants were choosing to stay put when their leases expired, rather than shoulder the costs of moving, because of the uncertain business outlook.
 Even as financial companies are giving up space in the Plaza District, some new or renovated buildings are expected to add space to the market soon. 
 A 30-floor, 350,000-square-foot office tower at 510 Madison Avenue, at the southwest corner of East 53rd Street, is being developed by the Macklowes, a New York real estate family. Mr. Sammons said that this building alone would add half a percentage point to the availability rate in the Plaza District once it is completed, which he expects to happen by this fall.
 Two blocks up Madison Avenue, another developer has done a gut renovation of 545 Madison Avenue, a 17-story 140,000-square-foot building on the southeast corner of East 55th Street. 
 But millions of square feet are available in the Plaza District today largely because of the consolidation and downsizing within the financial industry. 
 Early next year, for example, JPMorgan Chase will be moving employees in its wealth management division out of leased space that it occupies from the fourth floor through the 12th floor at 345 Park Avenue, a soaring skyscraper that occupies an entire city block running from 51st to 52nd Street, and from Park Avenue to Lexington Avenue.
 Chase no longer needs to lease as much space in the area because it got Bear Stearns's 1.1-million-square-foot headquarters at 383 Madison Avenue when it acquired the investment bank last year. So the bank negotiated an early lease termination for some 400,000 square feet with the owner of 345 Park Avenue.
 KPMG, the accounting firm, already a major tenant there, has leased 100,000 square feet of the space that Chase is giving up. That leaves around 300,000 square feet on the market.
 The Rudins, a New York real estate family, built this 44-story two-million-square-foot office tower in the 1960s. Bill Rudin, president of the Rudin Management Company, the operating arm of the family's real estate business, said this was the largest block of space available in the family's office portfolio.
 ''The market is competitive,'' Mr. Rudin said. ''There's a lot of sublet space out there, so we are being a little bit more aggressive with the marketing.''
 At the western edge of the Plaza District -- at 40 West 57th Street, between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas -- Bank of America moved out of 175,000 square feet when it moved into its new headquarters next to Bryant Park last year.
 The LeFrak Organization owns the building, a 34-story 700,000-square foot office tower. It has leased all of the former Bank of America space except for about 35,000 square feet. 
 Richard LeFrak, chief of the LeFrak Organization, estimates that roughly half the space in the building is occupied by financial companies. But he said the fashion industry -- a traditional tenant -- was still well represented.
 Mr. LeFrak said that Plaza District rents had been out of hand. ''But landlords who've owned these buildings for a long time, and didn't leverage them, are doing just fine,'' he said, even though rents have fallen back to where they were a few years ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Plaza District in Midtown now has an estimated 7.3 million square feet of office space available, up from a low of 2.6 million square feet three years ago. Shown here is 345 Park Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); ART DEALERS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



207 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: J. C. Penney Plays Up Its Manhattan Opening

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
J. C. PENNEY, a retailer with middle-American roots, intends to make a grand entrance with its first store in Manhattan, a place at the heart of retailing.
 The campaign, which is estimated to cost as much as $1 million, seeks to demonstrate that Penney will be at home in Manhattan.
 The potential ''halo effect'' on the Penney brand of opening and operating a store in the fashion and media capital of the country has inspired the extensive campaign, said Mike Boylson, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the J. C. Penney Company in Plano, Tex. 
 ''A special case gets a special level of attention,'' he added.
 ''When you consider how expensive it is to live in New York, I think people will appreciate the style and quality'' of Penney merchandise, Mr. Boylson said, which is sold ''at very affordable prices.''
 On July 31, Penney plans to open its first store in Manhattan, which will join stores in three other boroughs, the Bronx, Queens and Staten Island. 
 (So what is Brooklyn, chopped liver?)
 The Manhattan store -- in the Manhattan Mall at Herald Square, 33rd Street and Avenue of the Americas -- is the subject of a major, multimedia marketing campaign, a rarity for Penney, which usually promotes store openings with print and radio advertising. 
 In addition to the special ads, there will be shopping bags designed for the store, highlighting the letters ''NYC'' inside the name ''JCPenney,'' along with other customized touches like a unique logo, celebrity events and tailored content on a Web site (jcpnewstores.com/nyc).
 ''It will give them a real break in their pocketbook,'' Mr. Boylson added -- a good argument for shopping at a store during a recession.
 Still, arriving now in Manhattan, where many a retailer has foundered even in good times, is a risk for Penney, which had its headquarters in Manhattan before moving to Plano in 1988.
 ''We're seeing some businesses start to get stronger,'' Mr. Boylson said of Penney's merchandise offerings, but ''our customer is obviously still feeling the pinch.''
 That is why a large part of the campaign for the Manhattan store is devoted to reaching out to shoppers who are not Penney customers, he added, as they are ''opting for much more affordable price points.''
 To that end, the campaign takes a direct, even cheeky tack -- New York style -- to lure customers of other stores.
 ''Our neighbors must be shaking in their overpriced boots,'' an ad asserts. Another ad promises: ''NYC style. JCP prices.''
 Other ads take a poke at the most prominent retailer in Herald Square, Macy's.
 ''We heard Herald Square needed a good department store,'' an ad proclaims. Another ad declares, ''The real miracle is now on 33rd Street'' -- a reference to the classic Christmas movie, ''Miracle on 34th Street,'' about a Santa Claus working for Macy's who believes he is the real Kris Kringle.
 (A subplot in the movie describes the battle between Macy's and another department store that at the time was also in Herald Square, Gimbels. The space Penney is taking in Manhattan Mall, it turns out, once housed Gimbels, as well as other bygone stores like Abraham & Straus and Stern's.)
 However many zingers Penney aims at Macy's, that retailer, which has been in Herald Square since 1902, is forgoing a chance to respond.
 ''I don't think we're going to comment on the record,'' said Holly Thomas, a spokeswoman for Macy's, part of Macy's Inc. 
 The idea for the campaign came from the Penney creative agency, Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, which produces the national ads for Penney carrying the theme ''Every day matters.'' The media agency is OMD in New York, part of the Omnicom Group.
 It was Saatchi & Saatchi that said, '' 'You know, you have an ''NYC'' in your name,' '' said Jim Francois, vice president and director for visual marketing at Penney, who oversees the internal work on the campaign with Lisa DeStefano, divisional vice president at Penney for brand communication and strategy.
 Ms. DeStefano said the campaign ''had to be authentically J. C. Penney because we are who we are, but we also wanted to make a statement about coming to New York.''
 To that end, the campaign includes ads that address Penney attributes. For instance, one says, ''Our brand-new store offers something not new at all: Trust.'' Another states: ''We've been around a long time, yet our style is impeccable. Kind of like you, Manhattan.'' Because of the economy, said Steven Gilliatt, managing director at the New York office of the Partners, a strategy and design agency that is owned by WPP, brands and products ''have to communicate a certain authenticity'' to allay concerns of consumers who have lost faith in so many businesses.
 That is why ''you see a lot of corporate reputations peeking out behind ads for products and services,'' he added -- as in the Penney campaign.
 Scott Davis, senior partner at the Chicago office of Prophet, a marketing and branding consultancy, said he understood why advertisers were ''not willing to take on a lot of risk'' during a severe recession.
 But ''those that are stepping out, willing to roll the dice,'' he added, are more likely ''to come out ahead'' when the economy recovers.
 After all, famous brands that got their start during the 1930s include Snickers, Monopoly and Fortune magazine. And Macy's held its annual Thanksgiving Day parade -- with Santa Claus as the finale -- throughout the Great Depression. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: J. C. Penney's store in Manhattan is getting its own ad campaign with a New York tone and style, as in the image above.
 The Penney campaign includes playful shots at nearby rivals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (95%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



208 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE ASCENT OF MONEY'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Our Current Global Economic Crisis: The Prequel

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
In ''The Ascent of Money,'' boldly subtitled ''A Financial History of the World,'' the host Niall Ferguson makes many costume changes, choosing, for instance, a loose-fitting butter-cream blazer to amble around the Jewish quarter of Venice and explain the evolution of money lending. In cooler climates he prefers roll-neck pullovers or a trench. In Santiago (to discuss Chilean reform) or New Orleans (to cover the economic repercussions of Hurricane Katrina), he wears cotton shirts of such a low thread count that they are vaguely see-through, and he leaves them unbuttoned enough to suggest that if he hadn't become the Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard, he might have turned into Rick Springfield. 
 In promotional material for this PBS series (which begins on Wednesday and continues over the next three weeks), Mr. Ferguson adorns himself with a single gold-hoop earring that he forgoes for the documentary itself. I was disappointed not to see it, imagining that perhaps he had dressed himself according to Coco Chanel's maxim that when accessorizing, you should always take off the last thing you put on. 
 Metaphorically, though, the dictum goes unheeded. Mr. Ferguson, who is Scottish and has mastered a florid narrative style, doesn't remove, he adds on, gunning with stylized inflection. When he makes a claim like ''We want calculable risk; we're stuck with random uncertainty,'' it seems his intent is to sound like Robin Leach. 
 Here he is introducing the history of insurance with a digression into national character: ''They say the Scots are a pessimistic people. Maybe it's the weather, all those hundreds of rainy days. Maybe it's the endless years of sporting disappointment, or maybe it was the Calvinism we picked up at the time of the Reformation. Certainly, it's two Church of Scotland ministers who deserve the credit for inventing the first true insurance fund back in 1744 and founding a multibillion-pound industry.''
 Mr. Ferguson's chief mission is to entertain, and he entertains well. ''The Ascent of Money,'' based on his book of the same title, secures his position as television's most flamboyant, showmanish public intellectual. The field has been winnowed considerably since the pugnacious glory days of people like Gore Vidal, hurling their neologisms (''crypto-fascist'') at people like William F. Buckley in front of the camera. But Mr. Ferguson, who last year brought us the series ''The War of the World,'' will surely retain his status uncontested -- at least until Stanley Fish begins regularly appearing in his own PBS specials.
 Accumulating tens of thousands of frequent-flier miles, Mr. Ferguson goes everywhere to substantiate the broad and largely unassailable claim that an understanding of money is essential to an understanding of the course of human progress. This is like saying that to know about gaining weight, we ought to consider the repercussions of overeating: few are going to dissent.
 Presented as polemic, ''The Ascent of Money,'' which was shown in a truncated version on PBS in January, is essentially a series of anecdotes, many quite lively, about various characters and events that provoked consequential monetary crises or contributed to the development of financial instruments that altered history for better or worse. We get the 18th-century Scottish economist John Law, for instance, who encouraged speculative trading through the Mississippi Company, established to help the French colony of Louisiana; the bubble burst, and he essentially bankrupted France.
 One of Mr. Ferguson's hallmarks is the statement made ex cathedra, delivered as if no counterargument could exist to upend it. In thrall to the Chicago School's free-market philosophy, he blames the welfare state in Britain and much of the Western world in the 1970s for the stagflation of the time. The state-supported system had removed the incentives to entrepreneurship without which the capitalist economy cannot function, he declares -- ''the carrot of serious money for those who strive, the stick of hardship for those who are idle.'' In this version of history the energy crisis, monetary policy and other factors played little role in the development of debilitating inflation and slow growth. 
 In Chile he indulges in a similar whitewashing, tracing the origins of the country's impressive economic expansion during the '80s and '90s almost entirely to its privatization of retirement accounts in 1981, a system criticized in recent years for high management fees and low participation rates. The reforms came about through collaboration between the dictator Augusto Pinochet and Milton Friedman and his conservative economist acolytes. Mr. Ferguson's relativism leaves him with little to condemn in the union.
 He also glosses over, for instance, the fact that in 2005 -- before the global financial crisis -- unemployment in Chile stood at 8.6 percent, with the figure nearly three times higher among people under 24. And while the poverty rate has plummeted, the gap in social equality (as measured by factors like gains in education and family income) remains wide.
 More vigilant academics driven by finding nuance -- those whose names are not attached to DVDs available on Netflix -- are typically repelled by the brash assertion the medium of television often requires. Mr. Ferguson isn't; he thrives on it, comporting himself as someone unambivalently enjoying his celebrity. Where others might cower ultimately, he calls wardrobe.
 The Ascent of Money: A Financial History of the World
 On most PBS stations on Wednesday nights (check local listings).
 Produced by Chimerica Media Limited and Thirteen in association with WNET .org; based on the book ''The Ascent of Money: A Financial History of the World'' by Niall Ferguson; Mr. Ferguson, host; Simon Berthon, executive producer; William R. Grant, executive producer for WNET.org; Stephen Segaller, executive in charge; Melanie Fall, series producer; Adrian Pennink, series director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Niall Ferguson, the host of the PBS series ''The Ascent of Money,'' at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEWALD AUKEMA/CHIMERICA MEDIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RELIGION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (91%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) CHILE (92%); SCOTLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Ascent of Money (TV Program); Ascent of Money (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



209 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: On a Harlem Block, Boarded-Up Buildings and a Changing Mood

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Of all the New York City neighborhoods swept up in the real estate boom of the last decade, few became as hot as Harlem. It grew increasingly gentrified and integrated. Its economy developed a lively pulse, and its town homes -- stately, historic, but often neglected -- fetched prices unheard-of for the area.
 But that sense of electricity and evolution, which thrilled some residents and troubled others, has been unplugged. And a single block -- West 134th Street between Frederick Douglass Boulevard and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard -- offers a vivid illustration of just how cool the market and the mood have turned. 
 On that block, developers have been trying to figure out what to do with at least four town houses they bought during the boom. Two years ago, the developers planned to renovate the homes and resell them for more than $1 million apiece. But they are leaving them boarded up, letting them fall into foreclosure or selling them, in one case for less than $600,000.
 Craig Charie, who is trying to sell an unfinished brownstone at 221 West 134th Street, said he had contemplated chopping up the home, which belonged to a Harlem family for nearly 90 years, and renting it out to Columbia University students.
 ''It's not my first choice,'' Mr. Charie said. ''It's a beautiful place.''
 His appreciation for the potential of the homes is shared by the affluent blacks and whites, families and young artists who have settled in the neighborhood in recent years. And many say they are confident that Harlem will recover its real estate dynamism -- that the transformation in the last 10 years has amounted to more than just rising home values. The shopping districts and redevelopment projects that have emerged, they say, constitute a durable set of changes.
 Some see a benefit to the market's cooling, saying it will allow a greater opportunity for residents, new and old, to work together to restore some of the neighborhood feel that had been lost through gentrification.
 Still, for many involved in Harlem's remaking -- real estate agents, bankers, shop owners, new residents -- the swing in real estate fortunes has been breathtaking.
 From 2004 to 2007, according to StreetEasy.com, a real estate Web site, the median sale price for the area's town houses jumped by about 150 percent, to $1.4 million from $554,250. By contrast, the price on the Upper East Side rose by 38 percent. And the volume of sales of town homes in Harlem far outpaced that of any other neighborhood.
 ''They became highly sought after,'' said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm, ''because of the prices that were being seen to the south, and that people found they could get a lot for their money.''
 But the appetite for the homes was quickly sated after ailing banks began sharply curtailing the lending that had paid for the costly renovations many of the properties required. Shells of brownstones that cost more than $1 million two years ago are now fetching less than half that price, according to brokers with Massey Knakal Realty Services. And fewer homes are changing hands. In the first half of this year, 11 Harlem town homes sold for an average of $1.1 million; in the same period of 2008, 27 town homes sold for an average of $1.3 million. 
 In many cases, brokers will not even agree to try to sell the properties because there are no buyers, said Victor Sozio, the director of sales for Massey Knakal's Harlem office, who is selling Mr. Charie's property. And the slide may only be beginning; early signs indicate that it will be far more severe than the downturn that has hit much of the nation.
 The decline is frustrating not only to those who bought Harlem homes hoping to resell them, but also to longtime owners who had anticipated seeing long-abandoned parts of their blocks spruced up. William J. Brown, a brownstone owner whose family has lived in and around the 134th Street block for four generations, said the area seemed to be turning a corner a few years ago.
 ''It feels like a regression,'' Mr. Brown said. ''It seems the progress has halted or stopped.''
 Certainly, the results for the properties on 134th Street have not been what the neighbors had hoped for. The house at 259 West 134th Street has been renovated and is for sale. But at 245, where it appears that renovations began with new windows, a foreclosure auction is scheduled for next week, according to data tracked by PropertyShark.com. The houses at 255 and 257 are boarded up; PropertyShark records show the latter in pre-foreclosure as of November.
 For Amos Palmer, the previous owner of Mr. Charie's brownstone, the time to sell was 2006. Mr. Palmer contacted Michael Meier, a Prudential Douglas Elliman broker, and said he wanted to sell the home and move closer to his sons.
 A long line of potential buyers wanted to see it, Mr. Meier said, and five made offers. Mr. Charie, a lawyer and real estate investor who had bought and renovated properties with his sister Alison, paid $750,000 in March 2007. 
 He said he expected to make a solid profit. He planned to spend nearly $550,000 on restoring original features, like the dark wood stair railings and the brownstone exterior, and hoped to resell the home for as much as $1.6 million. He was so eager to move forward that he offered to clean out the odds and ends of Mr. Palmer's family. Two years later, that task remains.
 Mr. Charie halted renovation plans in June 2008 because he feared that no matter what he did, he would not be able to sell the property. He recently reduced the price to $599,000. If he cannot get that, he might proceed with the idea of turning the home into rental apartments, even though he is reluctant to sacrifice the original moldings to reconfigure the space.
 Down on 119th Street, a town house Mr. Charie bought in 2007 and renovated has been languishing on the market since last year, despite a price cut to $1.3 million from $1.695 million. But he is far from soured on town house investments.
 ''I'm not done with Harlem,'' he said. ''I just have to shift what I do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A room in a brownstone that Craig Charie bought in 2007. He halted plans to renovate it, fearing he would not find a buyer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22) CHART: Snapshot of a Downturn: A look at how the decline in the real estate market has affected a single block of West 134th Street in Harlem.(Sources: PropertyShark.com
StreetEasy.com
Habitat for Humanity
Abyssinian Development Corp.
 and Doric Brokerage)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); SALES FIGURES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



210 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 738 words

BYLINE: By DWIGHT CASS and LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN

 BODY:
Energy Traders
 On the Firing Line
America's top commodities cop is eager to prove his bona fides. Gary Gensler, the new head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, plans to hold hearings this summer on whether the agency should limit the activities of energy traders to curb ''excessive speculation.'' But any rules born of such a narrow view are likely to be harmful.
 This initiative represents a 180-degree reversal from the C.F.T.C.'s position just a year ago, when the agency issued a report setting out evidence that debunked the idea that speculation was behind the oil price run-up. 
 That aside, a big problem with Mr. Gensler's new inquiry is that excessive speculation is in the eye of the beholder. One person's speculator is another's welcome provider of market liquidity.
 At first glance, position limits might deter those who otherwise would seek to corner a market or otherwise influence prices. But attempts to do so are already prohibited by rules against market manipulation.
 Mr. Gensler also wants to re-examine the rule that exempts traders from position limits when they are hedging actual deliveries of a commodity. If that exemption was removed, those who took a purely financial interest in a commodity -- through, say, derivatives that settle for cash -- would face constraints. 
 This could throw a big wrench in the market. Say a bank sold fuel hedges to an airline. The bank could trade energy futures freely, but if it tried to lay off its own exposure to the airline using cash-settled instruments, its trading partners might face limits. That would limit the bank's ability to sell the fuel hedges in the first place. The result could be higher costs to the airline.
 The C.F.T.C. also wants to review whether commodity index funds, used by many investors to take exposure to energy markets, should also be subject to position limits. 
 Yet existing rules appear to cover the situations regulators worry most about. Instead of seeking to restrain trading, the government should give agencies like the C.F.T.C. more resources to enforce existing antimanipulation and fraud rules. That would be far less likely to backfire.
 No Better, or Worse
 Private equity firms proclaim their management expertise. But a new academic study has found that companies taken over by private equity or other interests are about as likely to fail as those that have not been, before the effect of leverage. Add in the extra debt that is common in buyouts, and bought-out companies are more likely to go under. That's not a big endorsement for a struggling industry. 
 The preliminary study, led by Nick Wilson of the University of Leeds, in England, examined the failure of buyouts in Britain from 1995 to 2008. It concluded that highly indebted companies are more likely to fail, and that the rate of failure is higher for buyout targets than for companies that are not bought out. When an array of factors, including leverage, are stripped out, bought-out companies become about as likely to fail as regular companies.
 There is a grain of good news in this for private equity. 
 Not all buyouts are highly indebted, as the report points out. And buyouts with private equity backing, as opposed to management buyouts, say, performed better than those without, the study showed. At least private equity-owned firms don't appear to be managed worse than others, contrary to some criticisms. Even so, this is at best faint praise. 
 Of course, no academic study is definitive. Other researchers have produced somewhat different results. 
 Josh Lerner, a Harvard Business School professor, concluded this year that private equity-owned firms fail more often than public companies, but they pursue important innovations and create more jobs. Another report led by Nicholas Bloom of Stanford found that buyout-owned firms were better managed than family-run companies, though not better than the average public company. 
 Still, the Leeds study comes at a pivotal time. Buyout barons are trying to convince lawmakers that they are good for companies and the economy. Companies with more debt are more likely to fail. To make up for that, many buyout firms claim to be better than average at running companies. The reality, the study suggests, is that they just aren't any worse at it. 
 DWIGHT CASS and LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Gensler wants to revisit rules on excessive commodities speculation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY MARKETS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FUTURES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); CORPORATE DEBT (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); ENGLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



211 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Knicks Look to Hill for Stability

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Jason Kidd said no, Grant Hill said maybe, and David Lee and Nate Robinson said thanks, but we'll get back to you. Seven days into July, the Knicks are waiting for answers and searching for roster clarity.
 Perhaps a dozen players could sign contracts Wednesday, following the midnight expiration of the N.B.A.'s annual moratorium. Ron Artest will be moving from Houston to Los Angeles (and the Lakers), Ben Gordon from Chicago to Detroit and Rasheed Wallace from Detroit to Boston. Mike Bibby will re-sign with Atlanta, and Zach Randolph will land in Memphis in a trade.
 And Kidd is staying in Dallas, despite a brief flirtation with the Knicks, who remain determined to import a steady leader. 
 Hill, 36, now represents their best hope. He was courted at length Monday by Donnie Walsh, the team president, and Coach Mike D'Antoni, and apparently left town feeling intrigued.
 ''I think we tried to impress him and to show him what we had,'' Walsh said. ''I think we accomplished that.''
 Hill, who spent the last two seasons in Phoenix, is also considering invitations from the Suns and the Celtics. The Knicks and the Suns can offer the most money and a full-time starting job. Boston can offer the best shot at a title but only a spot as a backup to Paul Pierce and Ray Allen, which could prove to be a deal-breaker.
 Hill has a comfort level with the Suns' roster and with Coach Alvin Gentry. But he also grew close to D'Antoni during their one season together in Phoenix. No other teams are believed to be in the hunt, and Hill could make a decision by the end of the week.
 It could take much longer to determine the fates of Lee and Robinson. They are restricted free agents, making them a gamble for rival teams. Lee's asking price may also be a big obstacle. His agent, Mark Bartelstein, is seeking $12 million per season, according to an executive whose team is pursuing Lee.
 Given the depressed market, that figure may be out of reach. The three teams that still have substantial cap space -- Memphis, Portland and Oklahoma City -- are not believed to be pursuing Lee. Most other teams have only the midlevel exception, or $5.85 million, to spend. The Knicks have not made a formal offer but are hoping to keep Lee for about $7 million to $8 million per season.
 Bartelstein would not comment on his asking price, saying, ''So many people are throwing so much stuff out there, it's not something I would ever talk about publicly.'' 
 But Bartelstein made a strong argument that Lee is a unique and valuable player. He led the league in double-doubles last season, his fourth in the N.B.A., averaging 16 points and 11.7 rebounds, and shot 54.9 percent from the field. He is just 26 and still improving as a shooter and passer.
 But at 6 feet 9 inches, Lee is also undersized for a power forward and center, and he does not block many shots or provide stiff interior defense. He scores in bunches, but he cannot create his own shot. Lee could make an All-Star team but he is not viewed as a franchise player, which is why the Knicks want to keep his salary in the single-digit millions.
 It will take a major offer by a rival team to force the Knicks' hand, but most franchises are spending conservatively, in deference to the recession. Teams are also wary of Lee's restricted free-agent status, which allows the Knicks to match any offer within seven days. During that period, the team that signed Lee would have its salary cap space tied up.
 Bartelstein sounded frustrated at the lack of a deal. 
 ''It's a shame David's not done yet,'' Bartelstein said. ''The Knicks have the ability to get him signed. The other teams don't, because they don't know if the Knicks will match or not, or go through a sign-and-trade.''
 Bartelstein said he was ''working through a number of different scenarios,'' but he would not say how long it might take to get Lee signed. He could try to arrange a sign-and-trade deal, but the Knicks would probably balk unless they got a high-level player in return. 
 The market appears to favor the Knicks, but Walsh disagreed.
 ''Because a team can make a trade that impacts their cap, and they could get room,'' he said. ''I don't think it's over till it's over. And I don't think the players do either.''
 Walsh is also balancing Lee's value against his primary goal of preserving cap space for 2010, when the Knicks hope to pursue LeBron James and Dwyane Wade.
 Signing Hill, a widely respected former All-Star, could help stabilize the Knicks' lineup and make them more attractive to young superstars. Hill is still a solid defender, scorer and playmaker who can play at small forward, shooting guard and, in a pinch, at point guard.
 ''He's the kind of guy we want,'' Walsh said.
 It is unclear where the Knicks will turn if Hill declines their offer. There are several intriguing players still on the market, but perhaps only a few who would -- like Kidd or Hill -- prompt the Knicks to make a heavy investment that could affect their plans for next year.
 ''This is just the beginning of the summer,'' Walsh said. ''I'm trying to do this in a way that protects next summer, but I'm trying to make it better now at the same time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); PHOENIX SUNS (82%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); BOSTON CELTICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



212 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: From the Ground Up

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Selling Americans on professional soccer has been tough. Selling them on women's team sports has been tougher. Selling them on a new women's soccer league during a deep recession may prove to be the toughest task of all.
 Yet with high hopes and low expectations, the Women's Professional Soccer league started its first season in April. The seven-team league has no television rights deal, a meager media budget and just a handful of major sponsors. It also must overcome history: The Women's United Soccer Association, built on a wave of support after the host United States won the 1999 Women's World Cup, folded after only three seasons.
 But hard times can be instructional, and those associated with the new league say they have a plan to keep their venture going longer than their predecessor did.
 Gone is the corporate-run league that owned all the teams, blew through $100 million and overestimated sponsorship deals, attendance and television exposure. 
 In its place is a far slimmer league. Franchises cost $1.5 million, teams can spend only $565,000 on players' salaries, and marketing budgets are modest. To reduce costs, teams travel with 16 players from their 18-player rosters, and the league's championship game will be held at the home field of the top-seeded team.
 ''You have to have some pioneer spirit,'' said Joe Cummings, the president and general manager of the Boston Breakers, who worked for the franchise in the old league, too. ''If you're not willing to make the sacrifices beyond the white line, this is not for you.''
 The league was going to start play in 2008 but waited to give several teams more time to prepare. In the interim, financial markets collapsed, consumer spending shriveled and media budgets disappeared.
 Plan B became Plan A. The Breakers halved their target for sponsorship revenue, to $300,000, and have missed that goal by $50,000. They reduced their marketing budget by 80 percent. The team expects to lose about $1 million in 2009.
 Several teams are producing Webcasts together to cut costs. The Washington Freedom shares some front-office functions with D.C. United of Major League Soccer.
 Cummings and other league executives said the recession forced teams to act more like most start-up businesses. Teams use Twitter and Facebook instead of advertising on radio or television. They held preseason practices at their home grounds, or nearby, not overseas. Players make appearances in soccer camps and shopping malls to drum up interest.
 ''We're definitely aware of the economy,'' Kristin Luckenbill, a goalkeeper for the Breakers, said before taking on the Washington Freedom late last month at Harvard Stadium. ''We can market ourselves as a cheaper entertainment alternative.''
 Indeed, the league sells itself as an affordable live sports option. Single-game tickets to the Breakers start at $13. Season-ticket holders can exchange passes for one game for those to another. Parking and food are cheaper than they are for other professional sports. Tailgating is encouraged.
 ''I'll be frank, at $25 a game times 10 games, that's $250'' for a season plan, said Hugh Taylor, a banker who has four season tickets for his family and six for his company. ''If I went to the Red Sox, it's $40 to $50 per person. The cost of major professional sports is ridiculous.''
 Still, the league faces daunting hurdles. While a few games are carried on Fox's soccer channel, among others, the league does not have a television rights deal. That means less revenue and less publicity. 
 ''You have an American market where the real big sponsorship money is tied to television deals because the advertisers will not do anything without television,'' said Donna A. Lopiano, a leading sports management consultant. ''The keys to the kingdom are not available to new sports, men's or women's.''
 Despite efforts to broaden its appeal, the league's core fans remain girls who play soccer and their parents -- a potentially large group, since roughly 377,000 girls play high school soccer nationwide.
 But because many of them leave for college or stop playing the sport, teams continually have to find new fans. Persuading parents, especially fathers, to stick with the sport in their daughters' absence is not easy, either.
 ''We need to get out of the ghetto of being a role model for girls,'' said Andy Crossley, the Breakers' director of business development. ''You can't make dads feel like they're visiting Chuck E. Cheese's.''
 Women's professional sports have also hit a rough patch. In December, the W.N.B.A., which has been partly subsidized by the N.B.A., lost one of its marquee franchises, the Houston Comets. Rosters leaguewide have also been reduced.
 The L.P.G.A. Tour is eliminating several golf tournaments because title sponsors have dropped out, and the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour expected its revenue to fall by about 20 percent this tennis season.
 The soccer league's backers often note that they have signed the best players in the world, including Marta from Brazil and Kristine Lilly, the longtime stalwart of the United States national team. That talent, they say, will attract fans who want to watch soccer played at the highest level.
 Indeed, the largest group tuning into the league's games on the Fox Soccer Channel are men who also watch men's games, said David Sternberg, the chief operating officer of Fox Cable Networks.
 But getting men to attend games in appreciable numbers is another story. Doug Logan, the former commissioner of Major League Soccer who now leads USA Track and Field, said team sports were ''fundamentally tribal'' and that women's sports leagues have struggled to develop that kind of support.
 ''Success at the gate has to have a tribal following and not just a van of soccer-playing kids who come to one game a year,'' Logan said. ''If your business model depends on youth soccer, it won't be enough.''
 Many of the 3,000 or so fans at the recent match between the Breakers and the Freedom were young. Groups of girls, some in their soccer club shirts, jumped around in the aisles while their parents sat nearby. Others ran to the first row to snap pictures with their cellphone cameras. Many stuck around afterward to get autographs.
 Next year, the league plans to add franchises in Atlanta, Philadelphia and possibly one more city; the league aims to field 14 teams by 2014. The league has sponsorship deals with Puma, Hint Water and Advocare, and said it was close to announcing three more deals.
 Teams are drawing between 4,000 and 5,000 fans a game, and another 41,000 are watching on television, about as many fans as watch Major League Soccer games. 
 ''I have no illusions that we'll be rolling in dough in the next three to five years,'' said David Halstead, part owner of the Philadelphia Independence, which will join the league next year. ''You have a bunch of folks who want to see something new around the horizon.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about the business plans of the new Women's Professional Soccer league misidentified a Boston Breakers player shown chasing a ball during a recent game. She is Amy Rodriguez -- not her teammate Candace Chapman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Women's Professional Soccer, which began in April, is banking on stars like Kristine Lilly of the United States national team. (pg.B12)
 Kristin DeDycker, left, of the Freedom and Candace Chapman of the Breakers. W.P.S. has seven teams, and plans to expand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); WOMEN (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); RETAILERS (74%); STARTUPS (73%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



213 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: A Sinking Sound, And a Test of Nerve

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
No one argues that the staggering deficits run up by the American government in a bid to rescue the economy are desirable, healthy or even sustainable -- not if the national debt continues to swell at its current pace. But considerable debate centers on when and how vigorously to start easing off Washington's borrowing habit, with substantial risks at both extremes.
 Pull back on government spending now, the argument runs, and condemn an already hobbled American economy to years of mass joblessness and anguish. Indeed, some economists are already arguing that with unemployment near double digits, the government must consider giving another dose of stimulus spending now, despite the fact that this will add to the deficit. 
 Keep spending with abandon, goes the counterargument, and invite the possibility of a debt crisis with spiking interest rates, crippling inflation and a plunging dollar. 
 Those arguing for tighter federal spending to contain the budget deficit contend the nation has already borrowed so much money that the people who have lent it may get spooked and abruptly refuse to supply more. 
 China's central bank and other foreign creditors might curb their purchases of American government savings bonds, which finance so much national spending. That would force the Treasury to pay higher interest rates to attract other buyers of its debt, lifting interest rates throughout the American economy. 
 And that would increase the costs of borrowing for companies and ordinary families alike in the midst of economic weakness, like a wet blanket thrown on an already weak fire. 
 ''We are not an island,'' said Martin N. Baily, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton and now a fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''We are part of the global economy, and there are concerns out there among those who have been buying our debts that we owe too much.''
 But others argue that now is precisely the wrong time to worry about the deficit. Yes, the risks of growing indebtedness are real and unpalatable, but there are no appetizing options on the menu -- not at a time of 9.5 percent unemployment. In this view, debt must take a back seat to the imperative to spend money and stimulate the economy to create jobs. 
 In this view, pulling back now in the interest of limiting the deficit would be akin to withholding pharmaceuticals from a patient stricken with a potentially fatal disease because the treatment might itself leave long-term damage. 
 The deficit has grown in part because of the $787 billion spending package championed by the Obama administration to aid states, generate jobs and increase benefits for the jobless. But these expenditures landed atop huge deficits run up by the Bush administration, which had cut taxes and prosecuted an expensive war in Iraq. 
 If policy now tilts too far toward deficit cutting, some argue, that would treat job creation as an option the nation somehow cannot afford, in contrast to ''must haves'' like tax cuts for wealthy Americans and unpopular foreign military entanglements.
 ''We certainly have to tolerate the deficits we have now,'' said Lawrence Mishel, president of the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute. ''Any effort to cut them now would be foolhardy and cruel. This concern about the deficit in effect says to the American people, 'tough luck.' ''
 On one point alone, no debate is required: The United States already owes staggering sums of money and will soon owe more.
 The Congressional Budget Office projects federal spending will exceed revenues by $1.7 trillion this year, or about 12 percent of the nation's annual economic output -- the largest deficit since World War II.
 ''The budget outlook at every horizon is troubling,'' declared Alan J. Auerbach, a finance expert at the University of California, Berkeley, and William G. Gale, an economist at the Brookings Institution, in a recent paper. ''The fiscal year 2009 budget is enormous; the 10-year projection is clearly unsustainable; and the long-term outlook is dire and increasingly urgent.''
 The budget office estimates that federal debt will reach $12 trillion by this fall and exceed $13 trillion by September 2010. Merely paying the interest on this year's debt will cost taxpayers $565 billion, or 4 percent of the nation's annual economic output.
 ''The magnitudes are very worrisome,'' said John B. Taylor, a former member of the Council of Economic Advisers under the elder President Bush and now a professor at Stanford. 
 Like his fellow deficit hawks, Mr. Taylor is particularly concerned about inflation. Absent sustained and robust economic growth, the only way for the United States to pay down its debt is to cut spending or raise taxes -- both politically difficult. That may tempt the government to take a seemingly easier course: print money to pay the bills.
 Creating money out of thin air tends to increase prices, raising the possibility of the return to the sort of inflation that crippled the economy in the 1970s. 
 ''I'm absolutely worried about inflation,'' Mr. Taylor said.
 Many economists dismiss inflation concerns in the short term. With so much of the world ensnared by the economic downturn, demand for goods and services is weak, which tends to push down prices. Amid high unemployment, workers are in no position to demand wage increases.
 But the longer term is laced with uncertainty and potential policy mistakes. The bigger the deficit, the bigger the potential consequences of any mistakes. 
 Even the rosiest projections envision the national debt expanding considerably over the coming decade. The budget office forecasts that the cumulative federal budget deficit for the years 2010 through 2019 will run to $4.4 trillion. In their paper, Mr. Auerbach and Mr. Gale dismiss those numbers as overly optimistic, estimating the 10-year deficit at $10.1 trillion.
 Yet even as they sound the alarm, they point to history in cautioning against trying to shrink the deficit too quickly. 
 In Japan in the late 1990s, the government prolonged a decade-plus downturn by increasing taxes before the economy recovered, they say. In the mid-1930s, the Roosevelt administration suffocated growth spurred by aggressive government spending by imposing austere tax and spending policies too quickly, lengthening the Great Depression. 
 Adding risk to the contemporary equation, a host of unknowns seems likely to increase federal spending. The Obama administration is seeking to expand access to health care while insisting that any new program be paid for, but estimates of costs diverge widely. 
 Taxpayers have allocated $700 billion to aid troubled financial institutions and automakers, with the expectation that some will be recouped through selling assets and stakes in bailed-out companies. But how much will be returned exactly is a major unknown. 
 For now, the Treasury continues to find takers for government savings bonds at low interest rates. But somewhere between here and infinity lies a point at which American debt reaches unsustainable proportions, at which investors will balk at continuing to finance the American expenditures absent a higher return on their investments. Then, everything could change quickly, with interest rates soaring and the value of the dollar plummeting, as foreign investors lose faith in its fundamental value.
 ''We're running this $10 trillion gamble that interest rates aren't going to rise,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and now a professor at Harvard. ''If they do, we could end up in a very difficult situation.''
 During the last decade, the United States has come to depend on borrowing at exceedingly low rates courtesy of a global savings glut: China and other fast-growing economies harvested their winnings from booming exports and invested them in American bonds.
 Coming years are likely to look different, economists say. China and India are increasingly focused on investing their money at home to spur domestic growth. Russia is in turmoil. The developed economies of Western Europe, struggling as well, are more likely to invest in Eastern Europe when economic growth resumes.
 Meanwhile, foreign creditors behold the spectacle of California, stumbling to balance its books, and see a potential microcosm of American political weakness: no one wants to cut favored programs, and no one has the guts to raise taxes. 
 ''Suddenly global investors look out and say 'Wait a minute, are Americans really willing to tax themselves to pay us back?' '' Mr. Rogoff said. ''We're at risk. The history of financial crises is that you're rolling along, and then there's a loss of confidence.''
 Yet even as Mr. Rogoff argues for ''hard-headed decisions about spending'' to trim the deficit, he assumes the economy may need another jolt of stimulus spending this year if weakness endures.
 In a time when none of the options are good and nothing offers a clear fix, the deficit weighs as one huge concern among many.
 ''We should be worried,'' said Brad W. Setser, an economist at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''But not so worried that we're unwilling to take actions that stimulate the economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abel Maldonado, center, a state senator in California, told a clerk last month that he would not vote on a budget measure. Such impasses could make foreign creditors wary of investing here. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B9) DRAWING (pg.B1)
CHARTS: THE RISING DEFECIT: Relative to the G.D.P., the budget deficit is projected to be at its highest this year since World War II. National debt held by the public is projected to be at its highest since the mid-1950s.
BUDGET SURPLUS OR DEFICIT as a percentage of G.D.P.
 NATIONAL DEBT HELD BY THE PUBLIC* as a percentage of G.D.P. (Source: Office of Management and Budget) (pg.B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BONDS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); IRAQ WAR (60%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



214 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Taking Aim at Windows, Google Unveils a PC Operating System

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In a direct challenge to Microsoft, Google announced late Tuesday that it is developing an operating system for PCs that is tied to its Chrome Web browser. 
 The software, called the Google Chrome Operating System, is initially intended for use in the tiny, low-cost portable computers known as netbooks, which have been selling quickly even as demand for other PCs has plummeted. Google said it believed the software would also be able to power full-fledged PCs.
The move is likely to sharpen the already intense competition between Google and Microsoft, whose Windows operating system controls the basic functions of the vast majority of personal computers. 
 ''Speed, simplicity and security are the key aspects of Google Chrome OS,'' said Sundar Pichai, vice president of product management, and Linus Upson, engineering director, in a post on a company blog. ''We're designing the OS to be fast and lightweight, to start up and get you onto the Web in a few seconds.''
 Mr. Pichai and Mr. Upson said that the software would be released online later this year under an open-source license, which will allow outside programmers to modify it. Netbooks running the software will go on sale in the second half of 2010. 
 The company likely saw netbooks as a unique opportunity to challenge Microsoft, said Larry Augustin, a prominent Silicon Valley investor who serves on the board of a number of open-source software companies. 
 ''Market changes happen at points of discontinuity,'' Mr. Augustin said. ''And that's what you have with netbooks and a market that has moved to mobile devices.''
 But while Google has deep pockets and a vast reach, it is in for a difficult battle when it comes to challenging Microsoft in the operating system market. Many companies have tried this over the years, with little success.
 Google's plans for the new operating system fit its Internet-centric vision of computing. Google believes that software delivered over the Web will play an increasingly central role, replacing software programs that run on the desktop. In that world, applications run directly inside an Internet browser, rather than atop an operating system, the standard software that controls most of the operations of a PC. 
 That vision challenges not only Microsoft's lucrative Windows business but also its applications business, which is largely built on selling software than runs on PCs.
 Google said Chrome OS will have a minimalist user interface, leaving most space on the screen to applications. 
 ''All Web-based applications will automatically work and new applications can be written using your favorite Web technologies,'' the company said. 
 Google has already developed an open-source operating system called Android that is used in mobile phones. The software is also being built into netbooks by several manufacturers. 
 But Google has not encouraged netbook makers to use Android. The company appears to be positioning Chrome OS as its preferred operating system for netbooks, though it said competition between the two systems would likely drive innovation. 
 ''It makes total sense,'' Mr. Augustin said. ''Android wasn't really meant for netbooks.''
 Google had planned to unveil the project on Wednesday but moved up the announcement after receiving inquiries from The New York Times, which reported the company's plans on its Web site late Tuesday. Ars Technica, a technology news site, also reported the outlines of Google's plan late Tuesday.
 Google released Chrome last year, describing it as not only a Web browser but also a tool to let users interact with powerful Web programs like Gmail, Google Docs and online applications created by other companies. Since then, Google has been adding features to Chrome, like the ability to run such applications even when a user is not connected to the Internet. 
 Google said Tuesday night that it still had work to do to develop a full-fledged operating system. In a recent interview, Marc Andreessen, who created the first commercial Web browser and co-founded Netscape, said Chrome itself was already well along that path.
 ''Chrome is basically a modern operating system,'' Mr. Andreessen said. 
 The first wave of netbooks relied on various versions of the open-source Linux operating system, and major PC makers like Hewlett-Packard and Dell have backed the Linux software. Intel, the world's largest chip maker, has worked on developing a Linux-based operating system called Moblin as well. The company has aimed the software at netbooks and smart phones in a bid to spur demand for its Atom mobile device chip. 
 To combat these efforts, Microsoft began offering its older Windows XP operating system for use on netbooks at a low price. In addition, the company has vowed that is upcoming Windows 7 software, due out this fall, will run well on the tiny laptops, which have stood out as the brightest part of the PC market during the global economic downturn. Microsoft's current Vista operating system is designed for more powerful machines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (95%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



215 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: For Sale in ... Florence

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT WITH VIEWS OF THE DUOMO
 920,000 EUROS ($1,288,000)
 This two-bedroom two-bath apartment on the fifth floor overlooks the Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore, commonly called the Duomo, with its famous dome designed by Filippo Brunelleschi. The building has 12 apartments and 6 floors in all, with the bottom four floors dating to the medieval period. The top two floors were added in the 19th century, and an elevator was installed in the 1980s, an unusual feature for older buildings in the city center. 
 The apartment shares the fifth floor with another apartment. The master bedroom and living room have picturesque views of the Duomo and the red-clay tiled roofs of nearby buildings. The apartment has hardwood floors throughout, some of which are laid in a herringbone pattern. Most of the casement windows have decorative ironwork and white shutters. The doorways are trimmed in dark wood. 
 The kitchen, which has not been updated since the 1960s, has a Juliet balcony.
 The apartment is a short stroll from the city's most popular museums and outdoor cafes. The nearest airport is Firenze Peretola, 15 minutes away by car.
 MARKET OVERVIEW
 Italy's residential property market has seen price reductions of between 10 and 20 percent in the economic downturn, said Rupert Fawcett, head of the Italian department for Knight Frank, a research company. 
 Sales volumes were down in late 2008 and early 2009, but have started to recover, Mr. Fawcett said, and foreign owners were more likely to sell their Italian properties than Italian owners, partly because weakened currencies in the United States and Britain made it an attractive time to sell foreign holdings.
 In Florence, buyers looking for apartments to use as vacation homes tend to look in the city center, called the Centro Storico, Mr. Fawcett said. For houses and villas, popular second home neighborhoods are to be found in the hills surrounding Florence, such as Bellosguardo, Fiesole and Impruneta. Daniela Gisti, the business development manager for Precious Villas, a real estate firm with offices in Florence and London, said the hillside village of Settignano is known as the Beverly Hills of Florence.
 Prices per square meter for vacation homes in Florence are about 8,000 euros per square meter ($1,040 per square foot) for both houses and apartments, and as much as 12,000 euros per square meter ($1,560 per square foot) for the most desirable locations. The apartment profiled here, for example, is 9,200 euros per square meter ($1,200 per square foot).
 WHO BUYS IN FLORENCE
 Foreign buyers in Florence are ''a fairly eclectic mixture'' of people, Mr. Fawcett said, coming from the United States, the United Kingdom, as well as Scandinavia and the Benelux countries of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. 
 Ms. Gisti has also noticed that more Indians have started to buy in Florence recently.
 BUYING BASICS
 Foreign buyers in Italy need to secure Italian residency status and a tax identification number, Ms. Gisti said. She said Italy requires that foreign residents pay taxes only on their Italian income, like rental income from an Italian vacation home. Even if buyers of vacation homes in Italy own property in their home countries, their Italian homes are treated as primary residences, as long as they don't own any other homes in Italy. There are tax advantages to declaring an Italian residence as a primary home, Ms. Gisti said.
 Transaction costs include a 3 percent real estate agent commission based on the property's sale price. Ms. Gisti said notary fees vary, but for an apartment such as this the fee would be around 4,000 euros ($5,600.)
 Most foreign buyers also hire a translator to accompany them to the notary's office, because the documents are drawn up in Italian. Translators charge about 20 euros ($28) per hour, she said. Some buyers also choose to hire a lawyer, although Ms. Gisti said this is not required. The real estate agency's fee includes a title search. The registration tax is based on the cadastral value, or assessed value, and is about 3 percent for first homes in Italy, Ms. Gisti said, while second homes have a registration tax of 10 percent.
 USEFUL WEB SITES
 Province of Florence: www.provincia.fi.it
 Italian Tourist Board: www.enit.it
 LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
 Italian; euro (1 euro=$1.40)
 TAXES AND FEES
 A maintenance fee of 50 euros ($70) per month pays for the upkeep of the elevator, and cleaning of the common staircase. 
 CONTACT
 Daniela Gisti, Precious Villas, 011-39-348-552-8735; www.preciousvillas.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CURRENCIES (73%); FLOORING (71%); SALES FIGURES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT FRANK LLP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (54%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); BENELUX (86%); BELGIUM (84%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LUXEMBOURG (64%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



216 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Turning the Trainer's Table Into an Actuarial Table

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Beyond the massage tables and the stacks of athletic tape in the Dodgers' cramped training room hangs a dry-erase board with scribbled questions like ''Fat? Skinny?'' and ''Country of origin? Region of the country they grew up in?''
 Stan Conte, the team's director of medical services and head athletic trainer, expects the answers to help him resolve a problem plaguing professional sports teams: injuries.
 In Major League Baseball, where players are breaking down in record numbers, teams paid about a half-billion dollars last season to players on the disabled list.
 The ability to predict how players' bodies will fare is a holy grail. With an actuarial approach, Conte seems to have a head start in the pursuit. He is trying to build a formula that will give teams a competitive advantage and help them avoid players who spend their days in the training room and not on the field. 
 ''The insurance industry has made millions of dollars off figuring out how, when, where and why people are going to die, and we are trying to figure those things out about injuries,'' Conte said.
 Every major league team and scores of independent analysts are trying to understand why injuries strike certain players. But Conte said his effort was more advanced because his data has been compiled over 15 years as a trainer for the San Francisco Giants and now the Dodgers. He has had hands-on interaction with hundreds of players before and after their injuries, and his observations and medical records inform his hypotheses.
 Conte also draws on the analytical prowess of David Zes and Adam Sugano, statisticians who teach at U.C.L.A., and Matt Marks, an employee in the Dodgers' baseball operations department. They are building mathematical formulas that they hope will show the chances a player will be injured within the next season.
 ''This project couldn't have been done 5 to 10 years ago,'' Sugano said. ''There weren't enough numbers, and there wasn't access to lots of the numbers. The numbers weren't being collected, and those that were weren't the cleanest. And 20 years ago, there wasn't the computational power. It didn't exist.''
 Billy Beane, the general manager for the Oakland Athletics, called it ''the natural progression of statistical analysis.''
 Beane was at the forefront of baseball's first surge in statistical analysis, as detailed in the 2003 book ''Moneyball,'' when he embraced new ways of evaluating players' talents. Now Conte is applying similar methods to injury research.
 ''Injuries are a huge part of the game and it makes sense that they are doing it,'' Beane said. ''I just don't have the money to let someone spend all year looking into this.''
 Conte considers many of his findings proprietary, but in a recent interview at Dodgers Stadium he provided a glimpse of his project.
 About once a week for the past six months, Conte has sent an e-mail message with lists of players' identifying characteristics to Sugano and Zes. They build logarithmic formulas and computer codes that test Conte's hypotheses, like Dominican players' being more durable than Americans and whether high pitch counts lead to injuries. 
 ''He has been working and seeing things over his career that he thinks are trends, and he needs someone to execute them,'' Sugano said. ''We are the executors.''
 Marks helps Zes and Sugano by scouring the Internet and baseball databases for statistics on players' performance and injuries.
 Although Conte said the project was far from finished, he has begun to apply some of his analysis to advise the Dodgers' front office on personnel decisions, including free agents.
 When the team's contract with relief pitcher Scott Proctor was due to expire last year, Conte said he and his assistants conducted a risk assessment that considered Proctor's medical history, the number of pitches he had thrown and his frequent appearances two seasons in a row.
 ''We did a risk analysis -- I can't tell you what it was, but we saw him go 83, 83 in appearances two years in a row and had some concerns,'' Conte said. ''Without getting into specifics, we ended up not tendering him a contract.''
 Proctor, who recently revealed that he is an alcoholic, signed with the Florida Marlins. He sustained an elbow injury in spring training and needed major surgery. He may miss the entire season.
 Conte's injury analysis has evolved. He said it was more sophisticated and, he hopes, more accurate. Three years ago, he advised the Dodgers that signing pitcher Jason Schmidt to a three-year, $47 million contract was not a high risk. Since then, Schmidt has had two shoulder operations. He has pitched in only six games.
 ''Everyone asked me two, three times a day, 'If you had to do it all over again, how would you analyze Schmidt?' '' Conte said. ''I didn't have all the answers with Jason Schmidt, which has pushed me to get better knowledge.''
 A nagging challenge is the absence of a centralized database of injuries. All Conte's team has to work with is Major League Baseball's disabled list, a relic that includes errors and misinformation.
 ''People in M.L.B. don't believe it, and we still don't,'' Conte said, adding that teams sometimes manipulate roster moves by putting players on the list who might not be injured. ''But it is the closest thing we have to anything.''
 Unlike the N.F.L. and the N.H.L., baseball does not have a central database of league-wide injury data. The commissioner's office has begun trying to help teams track injuries reliably and consistently. But that project could take several years.
 ''Stan has been all over us with this trying to get all the data into one place,'' said Chris Marinak, Major League Baseball's director of labor economics. ''The difference between Stan and other trainers is that he has taken a real vested interest in this.''
 Conte said he was conducting his research on his own time, not as part of his job with the Dodgers. Considering all the money teams have invested in injured players, the formulas could become lucrative if successful. Conte said he has no agreement with the three others on sharing any potential profits.
 ''For now, we are having fun and that's enough,'' Sugano said. ''It's something we have talked about, but we will be careful. We will let them taste the sauce. And it's something that won't work if they don't have our algorithms; we have the recipe and it won't work without it.''
 It is not clear whether other teams are conducting similar research because they are not inclined to discuss something that may provide a competitive advantage.
 Lonnie Soloff, the head trainer for the Cleveland Indians, a team considered to have a progressive medical staff, said he used a mathematical formula to assess injuries but acknowledged, ''it is not an exact science and I am not sure it will become an exact science anytime soon.''
 The Boston Red Sox, another team with a progressive medical staff, declined to let their trainer be interviewed.
 Conte contends the long-prevailing belief in baseball that injuries are a matter of chance is misguided.
 ''I refuse to think we are doing all these things to get them healthy, and it's a matter of luck whether lightning hits or doesn't hit,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stan Conte, the Dodgers' director of medical services and head athletic trainer, is trying to build a formula that will help predict player injuries. (pg.B12)
 David Zes, left, and Adam Sugano are building logarithmic formulas and computer codes that test Stan Conte's hypotheses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS INJURIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (90%); SPORTS (89%); MATHEMATICS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (76%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); INSURANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



217 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Ponders Earnings and Starts to Worry

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Concerns about whether American companies can earn healthy profits in a deep recession hammered Wall Street on Tuesday, pulling stocks lower in a daylong decline.
 Energy stocks led the market down as oil prices sank to their lowest point in six weeks. And with few major economic statistics scheduled to be released this week, many investors are focusing on corporate profits and losses. 
 Industrial stocks and shares of consumer-geared companies fell as some Washington lawmakers said a second stimulus could be needed to stem job losses and pull the economy out of its hole. Talk of another stimulus, which would come on top of the $787 billion recovery act passed this year, underscored worries the economy was faring worse than many investors had hoped. 
 ''We're a little concerned,'' said Nicholas Bohnsack, sector strategist at Strategas Research Partners. ''The economy has moved toward less-bad territory, but it's struggling to move into good, or a recovery mode.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 161.27 points, or 1.9 percent, to 8,163.60. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 2 percent, or 17.69 points, to 881.03, its lowest levels since early May. The technology-focused Nasdaq fell about 2.3 percent or 41.23 points, to 1,746.17. ''It's an overall reality check,'' said Doreen Mogavero, president of the brokerage firm Mogavero, Lee & Company. ''People are starting to worry there may have been a disconnect between the market and reality.'' 
 Underscoring concerns about financial stocks and consumer credit, the American Bankers Association said that delinquency rates on home equity loans, auto loans and others rose slightly in the first three months of the year as people lost their jobs and fell behind on their debts. In all, 3.23 percent of loans were 30 days behind or more through the end of March, up from 3.22 percent a quarter earlier, the group reported.
 Investors are also expected to keep an eye on the G-8 summit meeting that starts Wednesday to see what world leaders are thinking about the economy.
 As earnings stagnate and consumers put more of their disposable income into savings -- 6.9 percent, according to recent government figures -- analysts are concerned that corporate revenue will flatten or keep falling. And many corporations will be able to beat earnings expectations only by cutting jobs and other costs, which could worsen the already weak job market.
 ''To the extent that they can continue to cut jobs, companies may do O.K. relative to expectations,'' Mr. Bohnsack said. ''If they can't, they'll miss.''
 The year's first round of earnings announcements this spring buoyed investor hopes with reports of smaller losses at many companies and some sizable profits at banks like Citigroup and Wells Fargo, which had huge losses during much of 2008. Many large banks report their earnings next week.
 But now, with stocks up more than 30 percent since their bear-market lows, some analysts are concerned that investors' hopes have outpaced the corporate world's power to generate cash in a deep recession. The aluminum maker Alcoa, which is expected to post another loss, will initiate the second-quarter earnings reports on Wednesday. 
 Earnings for all companies in the S.& P. 500 are expected to fall 35.5 percent from a year earlier, according to figures from Thomson Reuters, with many of the declines concentrated in the materials, energy and financial sectors -- three areas of the stock market that performed strongly in the second quarter. ''There's nervousness on the earnings front,'' said David Klaskin, chief investment officer at Oak Ridge Investments.
 Shares of the lumber producer Weyerhaeuser were down 3.2 percent Tuesday after the company said it would cut its dividend to 5 cents a share from 25 cents a share in order to save money.
 As stocks stumbled, investors concerned about dim prospects for a quick recovery put money into Treasury markets, pushing the yield on government debt lower. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell slightly, to 3.45 percent, from 3.51 percent late Monday. The price rose 14/32, to 97 9/32.
 Crude oil futures fell $1.12, to $62.93 a barrel, another drop for volatile oil prices. After racing past $70 a barrel, prices have receded to their lowest levels since late May amid expectations that supplies were expected to grow. 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and three-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); DISMISSALS (70%); COMPANY REVENUES (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (63%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



218 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: In Health Reform, a Cancer Offers an Acid Test

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It's become popular to pick your own personal litmus test for health care reform.
 For some liberals, reform will be a success only if it includes a new government-run insurance plan to compete with private insurers. For many conservatives, a bill must exclude such a public plan. For others, the crucial issue is how much money Congress spends covering the uninsured.
 My litmus test is different. It's the prostate cancer test.
 The prostate cancer test will determine whether President Obama and Congress put together a bill that begins to fix the fundamental problem with our medical system: the combination of soaring costs and mediocre results. If they don't, the medical system will remain deeply troubled, no matter what other improvements they make. 
 The legislative process is still in the early stages, and Washington is likely to squeeze some costs out of the medical system. But the signals coming from Capitol Hill are still worrisome, because Congress has not seemed willing to change the basic economics of health care.
 So let's talk about prostate cancer. Right now, men with the most common form -- slow-growing, early-stage prostate cancer -- can choose from at least five different courses of treatment. The simplest is known as watchful waiting, which means doing nothing unless later tests show the cancer is worsening. More aggressive options include removing the prostate gland or receiving one of several forms of radiation. The latest treatment -- proton radiation therapy -- involves a proton accelerator that can be as big as a football field. 
 Some doctors swear by one treatment, others by another. But no one really knows which is best. Rigorous research has been scant. Above all, no serious study has found that the high-technology treatments do better at keeping men healthy and alive. Most die of something else before prostate cancer becomes a problem. 
 ''No therapy has been shown superior to another,'' an analysis by the RAND Corporation found. Dr. Michael Rawlins, the chairman of a British medical research institute, told me, ''We're not sure how good any of these treatments are.'' When I asked Dr. Daniella Perlroth of Stanford University, who has studied the data, what she would recommend to a family member, she paused. Then she said, ''Watchful waiting.''
 But if the treatments have roughly similar benefits, they have very different prices. Watchful waiting costs just a few thousand dollars, in follow-up doctor visits and tests. Surgery to remove the prostate gland costs about $23,000. A targeted form of radiation, known as I.M.R.T., runs $50,000. Proton radiation therapy often exceeds $100,000.
 And in our current fee-for-service medical system -- in which doctors and hospitals are paid for how much care they provide, rather than how well they care for their patients -- you can probably guess which treatments are becoming more popular: the ones that cost a lot of money.
 Use of I.M.R.T. rose tenfold from 2002 to 2006, according to unpublished RAND data. A new proton treatment center will open Wednesday in Oklahoma City, and others are being planned in Chicago, South Florida and elsewhere. The country is paying at least several billion more dollars for prostate treatment than is medically justified -- and the bill is rising rapidly.
 You may never see this bill, but you're paying it. It has raised your health insurance premiums and left your employer with less money to give you a decent raise. The cost of prostate cancer care is one small reason that some companies have stopped offering health insurance. It is also one reason that medical costs are on a pace to make the federal government insolvent.
 These costs are the single most important thing to keep in mind during the health care debate. Making sure that everyone has insurance, important as that is, will not solve the cost problem. Neither will a new public insurance plan. We already have a big public plan, Medicare, and it has not altered the economics of prostate care.
 The first step to passing the prostate cancer test is laying the groundwork to figure out what actually works. Incredibly, the only recent randomized trial comparing treatments is a 2005 study from Sweden. (It suggested that removing the prostate might benefit men under 65, which is consistent with the sensible notion that younger men are better candidates for some aggressive treatments.) 
 ''There is no reason in the world we have to be this uncertain about the relative risks and benefits,'' says Dr. Sean Tunis, a former chief medical officer of Medicare.
 Drug and device makers have no reason to finance such trials, because insurers now pay for expensive treatments even if they aren't more effective. So the job has to fall to the government -- which, after all, is the country's largest health insurer.
 Obama administration officials understand this, and the stimulus bill included money for such research. But stimulus is temporary. The current House version of the health bill does not provide enough long-term financing.
 The next step involves giving more solid information to patients. A fascinating series of pilot programs, including for prostate cancer, has shown that when patients have clinical information about treatments, they often choose a less invasive one. Some come to see that the risks and side effects of more invasive care are not worth the small -- or nonexistent -- benefits. ''We want the thing that makes us better,'' says Dr. Peter B. Bach, a pulmonary specialist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, ''not the thing that is niftier.''
 The current Senate bill would encourage doctors to give patients more information. But that won't be nearly enough to begin solving the cost problem. 
 To do that, health care reform will have to start to change the incentives in the medical system. We'll have to start paying for quality, not volume. 
 On this score, health care economists tell me that they are troubled by Congress's early work. They are hoping that the Senate Finance Committee will soon release a bill that does better. But as Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat on the committee, says, ''There has not been adequate attention to changing the incentives that drive behavior.'' One big reason is that the health care industry is lobbying hard for the status quo.
 Plenty of good alternatives exist. Hospitals can be financially punished for making costly errors. Consumers can be given more choice of insurers, creating an incentive for them to sign up for a plan that doesn't cover wasteful care. Doctors can be paid a set fee for some conditions, adequate to cover the least expensive most effective treatment. (This is similar to what happens in other countries, where doctors are on salary rather than paid piecemeal -- and medical care is much less expensive.) 
 Even if Congress did all this, we would still face tough decisions. Imagine if further prostate research showed that a $50,000 dose of targeted radiation did not extend life but did bring fewer side effects, like diarrhea, than other forms of radiation. Should Medicare spend billions to pay for targeted radiation? Or should it help prostate patients manage their diarrhea and then spend the billions on other kinds of care?
 The answer isn't obvious. But this much is: The current health care system is hard-wired to be bloated and inefficient. Doesn't that seem like a problem that a once-in-a-generation effort to reform health care should address? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A proton therapy center under construction outside Chicago. The treatment's proton accelerator can be as big as a football field.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE)(A16) CHART: At What Cost?: Average spending for two years of prostate cancer treatment, based on the initial strategy, for patients who have the disease diagnosed.(Sources: Alan Garber and Daniella J. Perlroth, Stanford
 Dana P. Goldman, the RAND Corp.)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTATE DISEASE (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); PROSTATE CANCER (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (90%); CANCER (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (89%); RADIOLOGY (89%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); INSURANCE (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (64%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



219 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Pope Urges Forming New World Economic Order to Work for the 'Common Good'

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and LAURIE GOODSTEIN; Rachel Donadio reported from Vatican City, and Laurie Goodstein from New York.

DATELINE: VATICAN CITY 

 BODY:
Pope Benedict XVI on Tuesday called for a radical rethinking of the global economy, criticizing a growing divide between rich and poor and urging the establishment of a ''true world political authority'' to oversee the economy and work for the ''common good.''
 He criticized the current economic system, ''where the pernicious effects of sin are evident,'' and urged financiers in particular to ''rediscover the genuinely ethical foundation of their activity.'' 
 He also called for ''greater social responsibility'' on the part of business. ''Once profit becomes the exclusive goal, if it is produced by improper means and without the common good as its ultimate end, it risks destroying wealth and creating poverty,'' Benedict wrote in his new encyclical, which the Vatican released on Tuesday. 
 More than two years in the making, ''Caritas in Veritate,'' or ''Charity in Truth,'' is Benedict's third encyclical since he became pope in 2005. Filled with terms like ''globalization,'' ''market economy,'' ''outsourcing,'' ''labor unions'' and ''alternative energy,'' it is not surprising that the Italian media reported that the Vatican was having difficulty translating the 144-page document into Latin.
 Reportedly delayed to take into consideration the financial crisis, it was released by the Vatican on the eve of the Group of 8 industrialized nations summit meeting, which opens in Italy on Wednesday, and before Benedict is expected to receive President Obama at the Vatican on Friday. 
 ''It's not an encyclical done for the crisis,'' Cardinal Renato Martino, the president of the Vatican's Council for Justice and Peace, said at a news conference on Tuesday. Still, he added, ''if the encyclical had come out before the crisis, you would have said it was prophetic.''
 In the encyclical, Benedict wrote that ''financiers must rediscover the genuinely ethical foundation of their activity, so as not to abuse the sophisticated instruments which can serve to betray the interests of savers.''
 In many ways, the document is a puzzling cross between an anti-globalization tract and a government white paper, another signal that the Vatican does not comfortably fit into traditional political categories of right and left. 
 ''There are paragraphs that sound like Ayn Rand, next to paragraphs that sound like 'The Grapes of Wrath.' That's quite intentional,'' Vincent J. Miller, a theologian at the University of Dayton, a Catholic institution in Ohio, said by telephone. 
 ''He'll wax poetically about the virtuous capitalist, but then he'll give you this very clear analysis of the ways in which global capital and the shareholder system cause managers to focus on short-term good at the expense of the community, of workers, of the environment.''
 Indeed, sometimes Benedict sounds like an old-school European socialist, lamenting the decline of the social welfare state and praising the ''importance'' of labor unions to protect workers. Without stable work, he noted, people lose hope and tend not to get married and have children.
 But he also wrote, ''The so-called outsourcing of production can weaken the company's sense of responsibility towards the stakeholders -- namely the workers, the suppliers, the consumers, the natural environment and broader society -- in favor of the shareholders.'' And he argued that it was ''erroneous to hold that the market economy has an inbuilt need for a quota of poverty and underdevelopment in order to function at its best.''
 Benedict also called for a reform of the United Nations so there could be a unified ''global political body'' that allowed the less powerful of the earth to have a voice, and he called on rich nations to help less fortunate ones. 
 ''In the search for solutions to the current economic crisis, development aid for poor countries must be considered a valid means of creating wealth for all,'' he wrote. 
 John Sniegocki, a professor of Christian ethics at Xavier University in Cincinnati, said one of the most controversial elements of the encyclical, at least for some Americans, would be the call for international institutions to play a role in regulating the economy. 
 ''One of the things he's saying is that the global economy is escaping the power of individual states to regulate it,'' Mr. Sniegocki said. He said the encyclical also contained elements ''very critical'' of how the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank ''have required cuts in social spending in the third world.''
 Michael Novak, a philosopher and theologian at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, a conservative research organization, said he thought that the encyclical was stronger on principles than policy suggestions. He said he was particularly uncomfortable with the idea of a strong international institution to regulate the global economy. 
 ''I like limited government. I would much prefer to have many limited governments than one overriding authority,'' Mr. Novak said by telephone.
 Benedict, arguably the most environmentally conscious pope in history, wrote, ''One of the greatest challenges facing the economy is to achieve the most efficient use -- not abuse -- of natural resources, based on a realization that the notion of 'efficiency' is not value-free.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pope Benedict XVI signing his encyclical ''Charity in Truth'' at the Vatican on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OSSERVATORE ROMANO, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (79%) HOLY SEE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



220 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: U.S. WEIGHS CURBS FOR SPECULATORS IN ENERGY TRADES

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Reacting to the violent swings in oil prices in recent months, federal regulators announced on Tuesday that they were considering new restrictions on ''speculative'' traders in markets for oil, natural gas and other energy products.
 The move is a big departure from the hands-off approach to market regulation of the last two decades. It also highlights a broader shift toward tougher government oversight under President Obama.
 Since Mr. Obama took office, the Justice Department has stepped up antitrust enforcement activities, abandoning many legal doctrines adopted by the Bush administration. 
 The Obama administration is also proposing an overhaul of financial regulation that would include tougher capital requirements for big banks, tighter regulation of hedge funds and a new consumer protection agency with broad power to regulate credit cards, mortgages and other consumer lending.
 In the case of oil and gas trading, regulators made it clear that they were willing to move, without waiting for Congress to act on Mr. Obama's overhaul, invoking their existing powers. 
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it would consider imposing volume limits on trading of energy futures by purely financial investors and that it already has adopted tougher information requirements aimed at identifying the role of hedge funds and traders who swap contracts outside of regulated exchanges like the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 ''My firm belief is that we must aggressively use all existing authorities to ensure market integrity,'' said Gary Gensler, chairman of the commission, in a statement. He said regulators would also examine whether to impose federal ''speculative limits'' on futures contracts for energy products. 
 Much of Mr. Gensler's announcement was focused on precise issues well within his agency's authority, suggesting that he was serious about seeking changes. But his proposals could encounter fierce opposition from big banks and Wall Street firms, which are each big traders in the commodity markets and manage big investment funds focused on commodities. Oil prices hit a record high of $145 a barrel last summer, then plunged to $33 a barrel last December and have since bounced back to more than $60. 
 Much of the wild swings over the last year were caused by chaos in the global financial system, as banks and much of Wall Street came perilously close to collapse last September and the global economy fell into the most severe recession in decades. 
 But a growing number of critics have blamed those who are betting on the direction of energy prices for some of the extreme volatility. 
 ''It is the regulatory authority's business to make sure the markets work,'' said Edward L. Morse, head of research at LCM Commodities, a brokerage in New York. ''If there's a lesson of that last few years, it's that the markets haven't been functioning as well as they should have been.'' 
 Analysts said regulators face huge challenges in distinguishing normal volatility, which is always high during a chaotic economic period, from speculative swings propelled by investors seeking purely financial gains who end up distorting energy prices. 
 Mr. Gensler appears focused on two basic goals. The first is to limit the volume of trading by purely financial investors, the ''speculators,'' as opposed to businesses like airlines or oil companies that consume or produce oil and want to minimize their exposure to big changes in price. But according to data compiled by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, other noncommercial traders accounted for almost one-fifth of the activity in several major oil and gas products for June.
 The government already imposes speculative limits on agricultural commodities like corn and wheat. But for energy products, the limits are left to exchanges like the New York Mercantile Exchange. Mr. Gensler said the limits that have been set in the past have never been aimed at reducing speculative excesses, and financial traders often receive exemptions.
 The government's second goal is to shed more light on who the players really are. 
 The commission also announced that it will pull back part of the veil on the oil and gas markets, publishing much more detailed information about the aggregate activity of hedge funds and tapping into new information about traders who swap energy contracts outside of traditional exchanges. 
 Mr. Gensler's proposals are likely to be opposed by the banks and Wall Street firms that arrange swap contracts in the commodity markets and operate funds that invest in commodities.
 Mr. Gensler is in some ways a surprising person to lead the charge for tougher regulation. A former investment banker and a high-ranking Treasury official during the Clinton administration, he was among those who defeated efforts in the late 1990s to regulate financial derivatives, an effort led by one of Mr. Gensler's predecessors at the futures trading commission, Brooksley E. Born.
 Several important Senate Democrats opposed Mr. Gensler because they suspected he was too friendly to industry. Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, voted against Mr. Gensler's nomination and said on Tuesday that he wanted to see the chairman follow through with actual rules.
 ''I welcome the announcement,'' Mr. Dorgan said in a written statement. ''but it is only concrete action that will prove the C.F.T.C. is finally an effective cop on the beat.''
 The commission is an independent agency that regulates the trading of futures contracts for commodities including wheat, corn, oil, precious metals and currencies. For years it has followed a deregulatory path that rarely interfered the growing markets under its jurisdiction.
 A future is a contract to buy or to sell a particular volume of a commodity by a particular date. Futures contracts were created to help farmers shield themselves from price volatility for their crops, and speculators absorb that risk by buying contracts that allow them to bet on price swings. Futures are now used to trade a wide variety commodities, including oil, gas, precious metals, Treasury bonds and foreign currencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); GLOBALIZATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



221 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Family Night For Obamas Miffs Some In Moscow

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
If Paris is for lovers, it looks like Moscow is for families.
 After passing on dinner with the French president to go on a date in the City of Light with his wife last month, President Obama took leave of his Russian hosts on Tuesday night to seclude himself in his Moscow hotel with his wife, Michelle, and their daughters.
 The first family enjoyed a relaxed evening at the O2 Lounge, the super-chic, super-pricey rooftop club at the new Ritz-Carlton, although no doubt the Secret Service first cleared the place of most if not all of the swaggering tycoons and leggy models who flock to such Moscow venues. 
 They could not ask for a more scenic vista. The glass-enclosed O2 offers a panoramic view of Moscow, including Red Square and the Kremlin, all the more striking as the lingering summer sun sets after 10 p.m. The club is ''a place to see and be seen,'' as its Web site says -- that is, unless you are a visiting president who after a day and a half of blinis, beluga and bilats (the diplo term for ''bilateral meetings'') just wants to hang out with the clan.
 The decision to brush off the Russians on one of his two nights here miffed some in the Moscow government who did not understand why he would not devote the scarce time to his hosts. Mr. Obama had dinner with President Dmitri A. Medvedev on Monday and lunch with him on Tuesday. But with the second dinner slot unavailable, he ended up having breakfast Tuesday with Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, a known night owl not given to American-style early morning business meals.
 The Obamas, though, wanted some downtime before getting back on Air Force One to head to Italy for three days of meetings at the Group of 8 summit meeting and, from there, to Ghana for a one-day visit. 
 Mr. Obama has seemed tired here, several times fumbling the pronunciation of Mr. Medvedev's name and Mr. Putin's title. Beginning a speech here, he mistakenly said he first met his wife in school instead of at the law firm where they actually met. And he misstated his younger daughter's age.
 He was quick on his feet, however, while addressing graduates of the New Economic School. In praising Russian culture, Mr. Obama cited painters, composers, dancers -- and a hockey player, The Associated Press reported.
 ''As a resident of Washington, I continue to benefit from the contributions of Russians -- specifically, from Alexander Ovechkin,'' he said. Mr. Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals was the National Hockey League's most valuable player.
 And while Mr. Obama was tending to business, the first lady and the girls kept a separate schedule. Mrs. Obama visited an orphanage and then escorted the orphans to a special dance performance at a Moscow theater. Malia, 11, and Sasha, 8, did not accompany her, remaining instead with Mrs. Obama's mother, Marian Robinson.
 ''They came with me to Russia,'' the first lady told the Russian orphans. ''They're with their grandmother. I think they're making dolls.''
 Much attention here focused on the fact that the Obamas named their younger daughter Natasha, or Sasha for short. (In Russia, Sasha is actually a nickname for Alexandra, not Natasha.) The president told ABC News that he laughed at the sight of his younger daughter walking through the halls of the Kremlin with a trench coat on and her hands in the pockets.
 Mr. Obama jokingly called her ''Agent 99,'' after the ''Get Smart'' character. ''She just looked like she knew where she was going,'' he said. ''I thought she was going to pull out her shoe phone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ICE HOCKEY (63%); ATHLETES (60%); SPORTS AWARDS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



222 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Oh, That G-8

 BODY:
Expectations are low as this year's Group of 8 summit meetings open Wednesday in the earthquake-damaged Italian city of L'Aquila. That is not for any lack of urgent problems, like a faltering global economy and Iran's unchecked nuclear appetites. A successful summit also could give a much-needed push to international negotiations to address global warming and revive earlier promises to help the world's poorest nations.
 But inexcusably lax planning by the host government, Italy, and the political weakness of many of the leaders attending, leave little room for optimism. If this session is going to justify the time and effort, President Obama will have to lead the way. It is time for him to turn the diplomatic credit he has been earning over the past six months into diplomatic capital. 
 He must renew the push on Germany to invest more in economic stimulus. At the last major summit, the April Group of 20 meetings in London, Mr. Obama decided, for the sake of international unity, not to press hard. Three months later, the world economy is still weakening and only a concerted effort from both sides of the Atlantic can bring early recovery. 
 Mr. Obama also must press his fellow leaders to restrain dangerous protectionist impulses. To do that, he must pledge to restrain those impulses in Washington, starting with his own party. 
 He will need to begin leveraging his more nuanced approach toward Iran to build the kind of unity against nuclear adventurism that predictably eluded George W. Bush. Mr. Obama's offer to engage with Tehran is welcome but still only half a policy. It needs to be reinforced with firm commitments by the other G-8 economies, Russia included, to apply tough and meaningful sanctions if Iran refuses to constrain its nuclear appetites. 
 If there is one issue on which the United States lags behind the Europeans, it is climate change. There is general agreement on long-term emissions targets, but Europe is rightly urging swifter and larger emissions reductions by 2020. Mr. Obama would do well to listen and push Congress toward more adventurous short-term reductions when he returns home.
 The recession has hit the world's poorest countries hardest. Fortunately, many rich nations, despite their own economic troubles, increased aid commitments last year. Mr. Obama promised to double the United States' aid budget by 2015. But aid from G-8 countries is still $25 billion short of the $105 billion a year they committed to by next year, measured in 2009 dollars. This week's summit should pledge to meet that goal -- and each country should announce a specific contribution for this year and next. 
 Traditionally, the host sets the tone, theme and agenda for these gatherings. But Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, has directed most of his political energies in recent weeks to try to fend off newspaper charges that he patronized paid female escorts and entertained minimally clad under-age women. Showmanship: perhaps. Leadership: no.
 Other attendees have been less colorful, but not much more helpful. Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, has dragged her feet on applying badly needed stimulus to Europe's largest economy. Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, who helped rally support for African development at the 2005 summit hosted by his predecessor, Tony Blair, has stumbled badly since taking over and is keeping a low profile. Taro Aso, Japan's prime minister, is equally unpopular at home and afflicted by a particularly narrow nationalist worldview, even by parochial Japanese standards. 
 Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, leads a weak minority government. President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia labors under the shadow of his mentor and prime minister, Vladimir Putin -- no believer in international cooperation. France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, is politically dominant at home but, more than two years into his tenure, seems to have no coherent international agenda.
 Every nation represented at L'Aquila has a clear interest in a stronger and faster economic recovery, stopping Iran from building nuclear weapons, slowing global warming and helping the world's poorest nations prosper. It is up to Mr. Obama to remind and energize them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (61%)

COMPANY: APRIL GROUP SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%)

TICKER: APR (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ITALY (92%); GERMANY (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



223 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: City Starts Program to Foster Entrepreneurial New Media

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Fearing that technology will do to the city's media industry what exotic derivatives have done to Wall Street, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a set of initiatives on Tuesday to encourage new media companies to set up shop in New York. 
 The program is similar to one the mayor introduced earlier this year to persuade laid-off Wall Streeters to stay in the city and join or start new companies. It is one of a series aimed at propping up the industries that form the core of the city's economy but that have suffered in the last few years. City officials plan to tackle the retailing business next.
 The administration's goal is to move small amounts of public funds into programs that will help entrepreneurs and small businesses with big ambitions. In the case of the media industry, the focus is on young companies seeking to capitalize on new technologies rather than the national broadcasters and publishers with headquarters in the city.
 ''New York City is the media capital of the world, but, with the industry undergoing profound changes, it's incumbent on us to take steps now to capitalize on growth opportunities and ensure we remain an industry leader,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at the Chelsea headquarters of IAC, an Internet company whose brands include Match.com, Ask.com and Excite.
 Using a broad definition of the media industry, city officials estimated that it accounts for more than 300,000 jobs in the city, or almost 10 percent of the city's private sector. They estimated that the initiatives they proposed could create as many as 8,000 jobs over the next decade at a cost of about $1.5 million.
 After meetings with more than 200 executives and industry leaders, planners at the city's Economic Development Corporation settled on eight ideas for helping foster innovation and attracting media and technology companies to New York.
 Among them is establishing a research center modeled on the media labs at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stanford University. The development corporation intends to issue a request for proposals from universities and other organizations interested in providing space for lectures, workshops and other events that would bring together media professionals. The goal is to have the lab set up by January, said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the development corporation.
 Another initiative is a bond program that would offer tax-exempt financing to companies in the media and technology industries. Mr. Pinsky said the city could issue as much as $250 million in low-interest bonds this year.
 Mr. Pinsky said he and other city officials had started traveling abroad to recruit foreign media companies to set up their North American operations in the city. ''We haven't yet landed any of them,'' he said. ''But we've had significant interest from some very important players.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); CITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



224 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: In Summer Hideaway for the Rich, Slump Is Visiting, Too

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

DATELINE: NANTUCKET, Mass. 

 BODY:
On a winding road, down a white shell driveway, sits a rambling gray-shingled home with a view of the harbor, where beige lounge chairs ring an amoeba-shaped swimming pool and the living room is filled with pristinely white sofas, plumped, pillowed -- ready for the next owners.
 The 7,500-square-foot house has been on the market for a year with no takers. ''We had some good offers,'' said the owner, Paul C. Steinfurth, who runs a Miami real estate business and bought the house for $5.4 million in 2004. ''Then Lehman happened and they put their hands in their pockets.'' 
 So Mr. Steinfurth is resorting to a risky tactic new to the real estate market here: next Tuesday he'll offer the house at an ''absolute auction.'' The highest bidder wins, no matter how low the bid. 
 The sale is testimony to just how drastically the market has turned and how severely the economy has hurt even the country's most exclusive enclaves. 
 About 600 properties, or 6 percent of all those on the island, are for sale, but almost nothing is selling. ''The damage is huge,'' said Flint Ranney, a real estate broker on the island for 30 years and president of Denby Real Estate. ''The market value of the real estate on the island was about $20 billion in 2008. Now it is about $14 billion. This is much worse than 1987. That decline came from the savings and loan crisis and it was more contained. This is the stock market and it affects everybody's wealth.''
 While some real estate agents say things are picking up, Mr. Ranney disagrees, pointing out that just four homes sold in March, four in May and about the same last month, according to data his firm keeps on all transactions. The dollar volume of all transactions is down 48 percent, according to his firm's data.
 In recent decades, Nantucket has attracted wealthy families who have built a rash of multimillion dollar homes. Its residents include Eric E. Schmidt, chief executive of Google, and his wife, Wendy; General Electric's former chief executive, Jack Welch; David M. Rubinstein, of the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm; along with hundreds of lesser-known money players at other prominent investment and private equity firms. 
 The island's airport, Nantucket Memorial, was jammed with private planes and its 240-slip marina, a destination for big yachts, helped fuel the local economy. When newcomers could not get into the old Sankaty Head Golf Club, they built the Nantucket Golf Club. A posh new yacht club, planned six years ago in the days of easy money, opened last Wednesday with its membership roster just 78 percent full. 
 Entering the traditionally hectic summer months, there is some hope that business will take off. Still, nervous shopkeepers, restaurateurs and hoteliers are offering bargains and seeking new revenue. Recently, Joe Pantorno, who owns The RopeWalk, a restaurant that looks over the Nantucket marina, opened for breakfast for the first time. The White Elephant, one of the island's most elegant hotels, has been promoting a wider range of discount packages. 
 To be sure, there are some reasons to be optimistic business will pickup this summer, and Nantucketers are finding them. For one thing, the June weather has been rainy and July and August are prime time. George Bassett, the Nantucket boat basin's dock master, said he was not usually booked up until around the end of June. ''Our reservations are running better than 80 percent,'' he said, alluding to July and August. ''We are very encouraged, knowing what is going on in the world.''
 But Mark Smith, a yacht delivery captain who sailed into Nantucket from Annapolis, Md., last week, and who had visited the island before, said, ''The marina looks like a ghost town this year and even the moorings are light.'' 
 As Leah Bayer, her blond hair tucked under a baseball cap, pulled tins laden with fudge from the oven at her store, Aunt Leah's Fudge Shop, on the edge of the marina, she worried about business. ''This has been the worst June I have ever seen and I have been here since the 1960s,'' she said. ''We used to open at 6 a.m. because the marina was busy, but we didn't open so early this year. It has been completely empty. I just want to pay my rent and my payroll.'' If business does not start improving soon, she added, ''Everybody will hit the panic button.''
 Ms. Bayer attributes the bad market to the weather, the economy and to the Wachovia Corporation's decision not to hold its annual equity conference on the island. It brought more than 600 participants and their families to the island and included fireworks and lobster dinners, but was moved to Boston this year. Kate Hamilton-Pardee, director of the island's visitors' services, said families who once came for a week were cutting vacations to four days.
 Some people are faring better -- like renters. ''There is a drop in demand, but also more people bought with the idea that they would do a little renting, so there is an increase in supply,'' said John Merson, a full-time resident of the island who rents some of his properties. 
 And those worried that the island was growing too fast are pleased that new construction has virtually stopped. Air traffic is down 13 percent, and the airport manager, Al Peterson, attributes roughly half of that to the decline in flights that brought workers from the mainland during the building boom. 
 Still, this being Nantucket, there is still plenty of money around. In late June, the Great Harbor Yacht Club held a cocktail reception for 24 potential members who might pay the initial fee of $350,000. Gary McCarthy, a founder, acknowledges it has been a rough go, but early indications have been positive.
 Nancy Cooke, a veteran private chef on the island who also sells cookies called Nantucket Nancy's Meltdowns, said she had noticed that more clients were dining at home. And at restaurants, people are not ordering as many expensive wines and desserts.
 As for Mr. Steinfurth, who owns the house for sale, he is risking an auction with no bidding floor in the hopes of attracting the widest array of buyers. Eager for a larger family compound, he has already acquired a bigger home for $7.8 million. ''I don't want the carrying costs of two large homes on this island,'' he said, ''and it is a tough time to be selling in a conventional manner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This 7,500-square-foot Nantucket home will be sold at auction by its owner, Paul C. Steinfurth, who put it up for sale a year ago. (pg.B1)
The RopeWalk, a restaurant owned by Joe Pantorno, is serving breakfast for the first time to try to lure more customers.
Homes advertised in the window of a real estate agency on Nantucket. Property values have fallen and sales have been slow for the owners of expensive homes in exclusive communities.
 The sparsely filled boat basin on Nantucket on June 30. Reservations were around 80 percent for July and August for the marina, giving some hope to the island's struggling businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); MARINAS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GOLF (62%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); CG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (73%); JACK WELCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



225 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IN IRAN, A STRUGGLE 
 Beyond the Streets
 There is growing unease among Iran's political and clerical elite, who worry that the system of governance they rely on for power has been stripped of its religious and electoral legitimacy. Among the Iranian president's allies are those who question whether the nation needs elected institutions at all. News Analysis. PAGE A4 
 U.S. SHIFTS ON CLIMATE
 The United States, long a laggard in international efforts to reduce the pollution that causes global warming, will arrive at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Italy this week carrying a newly assertive message on the dangers of climate change and the steps needed to address it. PAGE A9
 National
 STATE REPUBLICANS VOTE
 To Censure Sanford
 The Republican Party of South Carolina voted to censure Gov. Mark Sanford, but stopped short of asking him to resign, adding to the growing sense that the governor will survive his admission of an affair. PAGE A16 
 Senate Debates Detainee Rights A15
 New York
 A SUMMER SCHOOL 
 For Advanced Placement
 Newark's new A.P. Summer Institute is aimed at increasing enrollment in Advanced Placement courses as well as improving student performance, and is expected to reach more than half the students taking A.P. courses this fall in the 40,000-student school district. PAGE A18
 Business
 JURY SUPPORTS EX-CHIEF 
 In Case Brought by A.I.G.
 A federal jury ruled in favor of Maurice R. Greenberg, the former chief executive of the American International Group, saying he had not improperly removed stock from a fund for top performers' retirement benefits, as A.I.G. had claimed. PAGE B1
 SMARTPHONES AND GPS
 The smartphone is already the Swiss Army knife of the digital age, and is now beginning to displace yet another stand-alone device -- the GPS receiver -- as a convenient way for drivers to get directions to unknown destinations. PAGE B1
 Gmail Finally Sheds the 'Beta' B3
 Royalty Deal for Online Radio B1
 Arts
 MORE THAN JUST REACHING
 For the Stars
 After Casey Kasem's departure from the countdown business, it would be easy to say that he was always corny comfort food. But at the peak of its success, ''American Top 40'' was appointment listening. Radio. PAGE C1
 Sports
 A TOUGH PITCH
 In a Down Market
 Selling Americans on professional soccer has been tough. Selling them on women's team sports has been tougher. Selling them on the new Women's Professional Soccer league during a deep recession may prove to be the toughest task of all. PAGE B11
 Dining
 QUESTION OF LEFTOVERS,
 Ever Fresh
 People think of leftovers with special frequency during a recession because they represent our efforts to be economical. But while frugality may be a virtue, it often inspires bizarre behavior. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); JURY TRIALS (65%); VERDICTS (65%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); SOCCER (63%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (63%); SMARTPHONES (63%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (61%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



226 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Despite Shift on Climate By U.S., Europe Is Wary

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and JAMES KANTER; John M. Broder reported from Washington, and James Kanter from Brussels.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States, long a laggard in international efforts to reduce global warming pollution, will arrive at the meeting of the world's major powers in Italy this week carrying a newly assertive message on the dangers of climate change and the steps needed to address it. 
 The European hosts of the Group of 8 summit meeting welcome the shift. But the new stance also worries them, in part because they fear that the United States is working toward an independent deal with China outside the global negotiating framework. 
 President Obama has stated a commitment to addressing climate change. That has been followed by the recent passage by the House of a landmark bill that, if also approved by the Senate, would begin to regulate heat-trapping gases. Those moves have given the Europeans, as well as climate scientists and some environmental groups, hope that the United States will take a leadership role in global talks toward a new climate-change treaty.
 Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said during a visit to Washington in late June that she had detected a ''sea change'' in Washington's approach to climate change since Mr. Obama took office, raising the odds for a successful outcome to the treaty negotiations, to be held in Copenhagen in December. 
 But Europe is also unhappy with the Obama administration's reluctance to accept aggressive near-term goals for cutting greenhouse gases and its refusal so far to formally accept language that would limit the rise in global temperatures to 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, above pre-industrial levels.
 On Thursday, 17 developed and developing nations will attend a meeting on climate issues in L'Aquila, Italy, during the three-day Group of 8 summit meeting. In a draft of the declaration obtained by The New York Times that is scheduled to be released after the session, the countries say they agree on an ''aspirational global goal'' of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by 2050, the same target President George W. Bush accepted a year ago at a Group of 8 meeting in Japan. 
 To achieve that, the draft document states, the United States and other advanced economies will have to reduce their emissions by 80 percent, consistent with Mr. Obama's position and the House climate legislation. Several leaders who will be at the summit meeting are also hoping to overcome Washington's reluctance to setting a temperature target.
 The United States, however, has resisted European pressure to set strong goals over the next decade and has insisted on language that leaves vague the starting year against which emissions reductions will be measured. The Europeans wanted 1990, which would require much steeper near-term cuts, while the United States, Australia and Japan preferred a 2005 benchmark. 
 The draft is still subject to change before it is adopted on Thursday.
 Mr. Obama, in an interview a week ago, said he recognized that Mrs. Merkel, other Europeans and many developing nations wanted more from the United States.
 ''My argument to her and to the Europeans is we don't want to make the best the enemy of the good,'' Mr. Obama said.
 The president and other American policy makers also insist that no deal can effectively reduce emissions unless China, India and other major developing countries are on board. The United States has been pursuing a separate track of climate diplomacy directly with Beijing.
 Michael Starbaek Christensen, a senior climate-change official in Denmark, said he was worried that the United States and China -- the two largest emitters of greenhouse gases in the world -- would cut a separate deal and push the rest of the world into a treaty that did too little to curb emissions.
 ''I can only encourage Europe to stay in the lead and not let a bilateral U.S.-China relationship take over,'' Mr. Christensen said, ''because one concern I would have with the U.S.-China relationship is that they would find a lower common denominator.''
 Discussions between China and the United States have progressed, but the countries remain far apart on emissions targets, trade measures, technology transfer and payments from rich countries aimed at helping developing nations adapt to the anticipated effects of rising temperatures, surging seas and the clearing of forests. There appears little prospect for resolution of those differences before December.
 The draft declaration for the meeting on Thursday says that aid to the poorest and most vulnerable countries is essential, but it does not specify a formula for contributions to such a fund or how the money should be spent.
 Industrial countries do appear willing to commit to a smaller, immediate payment to the most vulnerable countries.
 As diplomats from around the world wrangle over details, a parallel track is under way that tries to look at concrete actions that can be taken outside of a negotiated international framework.
 Hal Harvey, the chief executive of ClimateWorks, a group that supports projects to reduce global warming, says there are steps individual nations are taking in their own best economic and environmental interest that, if accelerated, would go a long way toward easing the challenge of reaching a global deal.
 China should do more to improve the energy efficiency of its industries, Mr. Harvey said. The United States and Europe should adopt greener building and appliance standards, he added, while Brazil should alter its forest practices. 
 Mr. Harvey said that Mr. Obama had begun to speak out on these measures. 
 ''It's such a breath of fresh air for the Obama administration to push for strong and aggressive policies that will flip the dynamic,'' he said. ''Good will is higher than ever. But that alone is not enough to make it happen. It's going to require some political alchemy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Group of 8 meeting will be in L'Aquila, Italy, from Wednesday to Friday. On Thursday, 17 developed and developing nations will attend a meeting on climate issues during the conference.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GENTILE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (72%); APPROVALS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); ITALY (94%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



227 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: In California, Even the I.O.U's Are Owed

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The only thing worse than being issued an i.o.u. rather than a check from the State of California may be not getting the i.o.u. at all -- at least in time to meet the deadline of your bank.
 But across California on Tuesday, many vendors who had been told they would receive the i.o.u.'s instead of actual money said they had not yet received them. And if they do not arrive soon, they may be hard to turn into cash. 
 Last week, the state began issuing the warrants for the second time since the Great Depression. It ran out of cash to pay its bills as the Legislature and the governor failed to resolve the state's $26 billion budget deficit.
 Millions of dollars in i.o.u.'s, known as registered warrants, began rolling off the controller's presses in lieu of checks to pay taxpayers, vendors and local governments. The warrants offer a 3.75 percent interest rate when they mature in October.
 In most cases, banks around the state have agreed to honor the warrants only until Friday, in hopes that the deadline will prompt lawmakers to reach an agreement. As of Tuesday, 71,810 warrants to the tune of $108 million had been printed, but many had not yet been received. 
 ''We are out of cash now,'' said Carlos Flores, the executive director of the San Diego Regional Center, which provides services to Californians with developmental disabilities. The center is awaiting a $12 million warrant. ''I can pay my staff next paycheck, and that's it,'' Mr. Flores said. 
 Other state contractors who provide services to the disabled had similar stories. Mark Berger, the chief executive of Partnerships With Industry, which offers job placement and training for the same type of clients, said he, too, had yet to get a warrant. ''I haven't heard of anybody who has received one,'' Mr. Berger said. 
 Jonathan Brown, president of the Association of Independent California Colleges and Universities, said he had yet to learn of a college that received the warrant in lieu of the state education grants. 
 ''My expectation is that they will get them next week,'' Mr. Brown said. ''That is a real problem because colleges and universities have cash flow needs at this time of year and usually use a line of credit to cover their expenses, and then fill that credit line up with tuition revenues.''
 The majority of banks have been clear that they will not take the warrants after July 10. Banks ''do not wish to facilitate the lack of resolution of the budget deficit by basically providing this accommodation for an extended period of time,'' said Rod Brown, chief executive of the California Bankers Association. ''California must become more fiscally responsible.''
 Garin Casaleggio, a spokesman for the state controller, said that warrants were issued as bills became due, and that not every vendor would be issued paper immediately.
 People expecting money from the state who do not get a warrant by Friday have three choices. They can try to find an alternative bank or credit union willing to deal with someone who is not a customer, they can hold the warrant until it matures and collect the interest, or they can try their luck in secondary markets, where some people are already seeking to buy i.o.u.'s at a discount.
 Because of a proliferation of potential customers on Craigslist and other Web sites, like BuyMyIOU.com, the California treasurer, Bill Lockyer, said Monday that his office would not redeem i.o.u.'s held by third parties unless they were accompanied by a notarized bill of sale.
 Of course, it is not clear how attractive a piece of California's debt would be to investors. On Monday, Fitch Ratings downgraded California's long-term bond rating to BBB from A-, only two notches from junk-bond status, citing the state's continuing budget drama. 
 Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors, said that general obligation bonds had the full faith and credit of the state behind them, but that i.o.u.'s had a lesser guarantee. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Registered warrants are being issued instead of checks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); GOVERNORS (58%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



228 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: At Stella D'oro, A Long Strike Evoked Battles Of a Bygone Era

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With passing trucks and buses honking their support, employees of the Stella D'oro Biscuit Company chanted, ''The workers -- united -- will never be defeated,'' as they filed through the gates of the factory in the Bronx on Tuesday.
 Their sense of accomplishment was hard-earned: they had walked out in August and kept up a picket line through the fall, winter and spring of a deepening recession. They sued the company for unfair labor practices and prevailed in court, winning the right to return to work, proud that not one worker had broken ranks. 
 But then they learned, some as late as Tuesday morning, that the owner had already decided to shut the plant for good in 90 days. After striking for nearly 11 months, they stood to be out of work again in three.
 The shutdown notice threw a gut-punch into a labor-management tussle that evoked a bygone era, when New York City was a hub of manufacturing and laborers had a strong hand to play in collective bargaining. And the workers' long, unyielding battle seemed out of place when many of the city's biggest employers are eliminating jobs in waves and pressing their remaining workers to accept pay cuts and furloughs.
 To find analogies to the situation, experts on the city's industrial history had to reach back more than a decade -- to the 1996 closing of the Farberware cookware plant in the Bronx. 
 The Stella D'oro story, too, may end in the disruption of lives and careers, but the outcome may have been inevitable and out of the hands of the workers, some of those experts said. 
 ''They win, but it's kind of a hollow victory,'' said Joshua B. Freeman, a history professor at the City University of New York. ''They may lose their jobs again, but that doesn't mean they made an error.''
 Some may question whether unions representing industrial workers can afford to take such firm stands in the city anymore, Mr. Freeman said. He added that he could imagine that many unemployed or underemployed Americans might not be too sympathetic to people willing to risk what appeared to be solid, stable jobs.
 ''A lot of people are hurting right now, and sometimes you look at someone else and they have a job and they're resisting making a concession and you think, 'These people seem to be sitting pretty, what are they complaining about?' '' Mr. Freeman said.
 But the members of Local 50 of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International expressed no regrets on Tuesday for their refusal to accept the cuts in pay and benefits that had been demanded by the company's owner, a private investment firm in Greenwich, Conn., named Brynwood Partners.
 ''We're not asking for enormous raises or anything else, we're just asking to keep what we already had,'' said Joyce Alston, president of Local 50. Investors like Brynwood ''come in and they just strip these companies down to the bare minimum.''
 After addressing the returning workers before they went back to work on Tuesday, Ms. Alston said the union and its lawyers would study the legality of the planned shutdown. They will also seek alternatives, possibly including a sale to a buyer who wants to continuing operating the bakery, she said. 
 In a two-page statement issued on Monday, the company's managers said the workers had no one to blame but themselves for refusing to accept that the operation could no longer afford the wages and benefits it had provided in better times. They said they planned to continuing producing the company's signature cookies, breakfast treats and breadsticks somewhere else. In the meantime, the returning workers were expected to start operating mixers and ovens again at the Kingsbridge factory on Wednesday after a day of getting reoriented.
 Ms. Alston and other union officials said the members would work as efficiently as ever, despite the threat of the pending shutdown in October.
 ''Even if I go back for an hour, I'll get satisfaction,'' said Mike Filippou, 43, a union representative and a maintenance mechanic at the plant for 15 years. ''They're saying they're going to close to get us to agree to whatever they offer, but we didn't stay out 11 months for nothing. We're going to fight it.''
 Still, some made it clear that hard feelings remained.
 ''I feel cheated,'' said Richard Pererira, 51, who has operated machines at the bakery for 25 years. ''All these years we worked so hard, and now they want to shut us down. That's horrible.''
 In addition to the prospect of more than 100 New Yorkers being thrown out of work, a problem for city officials is that big industrial operations like the Stella D'oro bakery are dinosaurs, Mr. Friedman said. There is plenty of demand for industrial space in the Bronx and other parts of the city, he said, but what is needed are smaller, flexible buildings that can serve as warehouses and distribution centers or be divided for small manufacturers.
 ''The challenge faced by Stella D'oro was that even though it had a high-quality product, it wasn't necessarily uniquely benefiting from being in New York,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''The challenge is you have this manufacturing facility that was designed for this one single user. We need spaces that are designed for many smaller companies.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about workers' return to the Stella D'oro cookie factory in the Bronx after an 11-month strike omitted the given name and title of a source who said big industrial operations like Stella D'oro were outmoded. He is Adam Friedman, the executive director of the Pratt Center for Community Development, a Brooklyn-based organization.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stella D'oro workers won their jobs back in a lawsuit and returned to work on Tuesday, although the company said it would close up shop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BUSINESS TORTS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HISTORY (67%); BAKERIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: STELLA D'ORO BISCUIT CO OF CALIFORNIA (94%); STELLA D'ORO CO (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (94%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



229 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: For Jaded Russians, Obama's Star Power Does Not Translate

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY and ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Let other capitals go all weak-kneed when President Obama visits. Moscow has greeted Mr. Obama, who on Tuesday night concluded a two-day Russian-American summit meeting, as if he were just another dignitary passing through.
 Crowds did not clamor for a glimpse of him. Headlines offered only glancing or flippant notice of his activities. Television programming was uninterrupted; devotees of the Russian Judge Judy had nothing to fear. Even many students and alumni of the Western-oriented business school where Mr. Obama gave the graduation address on Tuesday seemed merely respectful, but hardly enthralled. 
 ''We don't really understand why Obama is such a star,'' said Kirill Zagorodnov, 25, one of the graduates. ''It's a question of trust, how he behaves, how he positions himself, that typical charisma, which in Russia is often parodied. Russians really are not accustomed to it. It is like he is trying to manipulate the public.''
 Others suggested that after decades of social turmoil, Russians were simply exhausted with politics, and had been so often disappointed by Western leaders that they were not inclined to get excited by the latest one. Asked by one Moscow newspaper what they expected to come out of Mr. Obama's visit, most respondents had the same answer: traffic jams.
 Some Obama aides said they were struck by the low-key reception here, especially when compared with the outpouring on some of his other foreign trips. Even Michelle Obama, who typically enjoys admiring coverage in the local news media when she travels, has not had her every move chronicled here.
 In the background is the question of race, which Russians view through a complicated prism. For decades, Soviet propaganda hammered home the idea that the United States was an irredeemably racist country, as opposed to the Communist bloc nations. But Russia in recent years has been plagued by racist violence against people from the Caucasus region and Central Asia, as well as other immigrants.
 Yet many young Russians, like David Zokhrabian, 21, who recently received a graduate degree in international relations from Moscow State University, said Mr. Obama's race cut both ways. ''Students in Moscow, they are pretty positive about this,'' he said. ''It's cool, modern, progressive. All the students know American history, they know about segregation, so it shows us about democracy, how it can be.''
 But the same cannot be said for average Russians, he said, adding: ''It looks weird to them. They just think that America has gone crazy.''
 Many here noted that Russia went through an enthusiastic phase with President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, when Russians were reaching out to Americans. Mr. Clinton conducted a town hall meeting in Moscow that was broadcast across Russia (and featured a woman in the audience jumping up and hugging Mr. Clinton on camera). 
 By contrast, Mr. Obama's speech on Tuesday, billed as his third major foreign policy address after speeches in Cairo and Prague, was not shown live on any of the major Russian channels, to the White House's disappointment.
 Mr. Obama used the speech, at the New Economic School, to declare that Russia and the United States ''share common interests.'' The Kremlin tightly controls Russian television, and it was not clear why officials chose to disregard the speech.
 They may have believed that there would be little public interest, or they may not have wanted to provide Mr. Obama with unfettered access to the country, which might have allowed him to overshadow Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin or President Dmitri A. Medvedev.
 Tom Malinowski, who was a speechwriter for Mr. Clinton, said Russian audiences were always the toughest to connect with. 
 ''It is a jaded political culture that has had a very hard experience with a system that professed universal idealism while delivering unbearable suffering,'' said Mr. Malinowski, now Washington advocacy director for Human Rights Watch. ''Some degree of cynicism about high-minded ideals is a natural outcome of that.''
 He said Mr. Obama's facility with language gives him the ability to talk around governments directly to people. Mr. Obama, he said, has the talent to ''do that in every part of the world, except possibly Russia.''
 Sergei Brilev, a top television anchor at Rossiya, the state-owned national channel, said that Mr. Obama's oratory might not translate well into Russian. He recalled that when he watched Mr. Obama's speech in Cairo with dubbing in Russian, he found it lackluster. It was only when Mr. Brilev, who speaks polished English, saw the original that he realized what all the fuss was about. 
 Russians tend to view Mr. Obama not so much with hostility as with indifference. ''Despite Russia becoming part of the rest of the world in the last 5 or 10 years,'' Mr. Brilev said, ''the interesting thing about Russia is that so many things which fascinate the American and European publics are Page 26 stuff here.''
 After relations with the United States curdled in the final years of President George W. Bush's tenure, many people here were relieved by Mr. Obama's election. But that does not necessarily mean they are overly optimistic about his pledge to improve ties.
 Valery Kanishev, 68, a designer for the state circus company, said he was pleased that Mr. Obama had brought his children with him to Russia. But Mr. Kanishev said Mr. Obama's address on Tuesday would not get him far with many older Russians, who grew weary of political speeches after enduring the wooden recitations of Leonid I. Brezhnev, the former Soviet leader.
 In Soviet times, speeches were composed by committees, Mr. Kanishev said, ''10 or 12 people who would drink a glass of cognac and then put something together.'' 
 ''Russians are the smartest people in the world,'' he said. ''The main thing is results. Our people don't trust anyone.''
 Younger people were generally more welcoming. Oksana Sytnova, 24, graduated first in her class at the New Economic School, an honor that was particularly sweet because Mr. Obama presented it to her at the graduation on Tuesday.
 ''For my generation, he is a very attractive politician,'' Ms. Sytnova said. ''And today's speech showed that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: No one was swooning as President Obama gave the graduation speech at the New Economic School in Moscow on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Michelle Obama with nurses at a college in Moscow on Tuesday. The Russian news media have not covered her every move.(PHOTOGRAPH BY IVAN SEKRETAREV/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); HISTORY (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); HATE CRIME (66%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009



230 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 WORLD CUP IN SOUTH AFRICA
 Stumbles Over Strike
 Thousands of South African construction workers walked off their jobs, beginning a nationwide strike that could threaten the biggest event in international soccer, the 2010 World Cup. PAGe A4 
 IRAN RELEASES PRISONERS
 Iranian officials said that they had released 2,000 people who were arrested for participating in demonstrations after the nation's disputed elections, but continued holding 500 prisoners who would be put on trial, according to a state-run news service. PAGE A10
 43 Killed in Pakistan Airstrikes A8
 National
 STATE SUIT CHALLENGES 
 Defense of Marriage Act
 The Massachusetts attorney general, Martha Coakley, sued the federal government to overturn a section of the Defense of Marriage Act, a law denying federal benefits to spouses in same-sex marriages. PAGE A20
 RACE AND ROOMMATES
 Recent studies have found that having a college roommate of a different race can reduce prejudice, diversify friendships and even improve black students' academic performance. But, the research found, such relationships are more stressful and more likely to break up. PAGE A16
 Blagojevich Aide Pleads Guilty A18
 New York
 YONKERS GETS TRACES 
 Of Winter in July
 Several inches of hail accumulated in Yonkers on Tuesday night, creating scenes of winterlike wonder that residents were still dealing with the next day. PAGE A22
 Car-Free Zones for Rent A21
 Obituaries
 JOHN BACHAR, 51
 As a rock climber, he inspired awe as a daredevil, condescension as an anachronism and eventually respect as a legend. PAGE A29
 Business
 GOOGLE'S OPERATING SYSTEM
 Is a Challenge to Microsoft
 Google is developing an operating system, the underlying software that handles the most basic functions of a computer. With it, the company is mounting a major challenge to the dominance of Microsoft, whose Windows system runs more than 90 percent of PCs. PAGE B1
 NEW PLAN ON BANK ASSETS
 The Obama administration unveiled a significantly scaled-down version of its plan to buy troubled mortgage-related securities from the nation's banks, a huge gamble that the banks have recovered sufficiently since the financial crisis to power the economic recovery. PAGE B1
 Labor Unions at Odds B1
 Bank Sued in Madoff Scheme B2 Bertelsmann Re-enters Music B3 
 Sports
 OLYMPIC OFFICIAL CRITICIZES 
 Planned TV Network
 An International Olympic Committee official criticized the United States Olympic Committee's announcement that it would begin a network next year with Comcast, saying the organization had not granted the channel rights to the Olympic name or footage. PAGE B11
 Arts
 JAPAN'S MASTER ANIMATOR 
 To Be Honored in U.S. Visit
 The 40th Comic-Con International fan convention is expected to include a rare public appearance by Hayao Miyazaki, regarded by many as the world's greatest maker of animated films. PAGE C1
 Home
 SUMMER HOUSE RENTALS
 Turned Nightmares
 In the excitement of finding the perfect summer house, who thinks of everything? Some experts offer advice that's essential to saving you from a summer rental nightmare. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 A SUPERMODEL
 Of the Moment
 Back in 1999, Laura Hollins, an aspiring young fashion model, changed her name to Agyness Deyn. Since then, her star has risen significantly, and she has become a prominent tastemaker. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A31
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); SPORTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (87%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); SOCCER (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); CLIMBING (64%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (64%); ANIMATION (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); ANIMATED FILMS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); ARRESTS (57%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); MARTHA COAKLEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



231 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Tour's Future Clouds U.S. Women's Open

BYLINE: By CHRIS HINE

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa. 

 BODY:
It was supposed to be an opportunity to celebrate professional women's golf, a chance for the best players on the L.P.G.A. Tour to vie for a major championship.
 Instead, a mood of uncertainty seemed to envelop Saucon Valley Country Club, the site of the United States Women's Open, because of continuing concerns among players about the direction of the tour under Commissioner Carolyn Bivens. 
 On Wednesday, players, sponsors and tour officials spent time addressing -- or declining to comment about -- off-the-course issues regarding Bivens's job status. L.P.G.A. officials said Bivens would not comment on the issue at this tournament, which begins Thursday. 
 ''It's not in the best interest of women's golf to openly discuss internal matters, but you can rest assured that the L.P.G.A. and its board of directors consider any topic raised by the players seriously since we are a player organization,'' David Higdon, the L.P.G.A.'s chief communications officer, said in a statement. ''There are always differences of opinion on business matters, and as they arise, we resolve them as best we can in order to further the business of the L.P.G.A.''
 At the heart of the discussion was a report from Golfweek on Monday that up to 15 players -- including stars like Lorena Ochoa, Paula Creamer, Morgan Pressel and Cristie Kerr -- met recently to discuss the tour's future. The meeting came days after the tour announced the loss of yet another tournament amid the slumping economy, the seventh event to vanish since 2007. Some of the players who met signed a letter and sent it to the board, expressing dissatisfaction with Bivens.
 Five of the seven players who sit on the L.P.G.A.'s 13-member board were in favor of removing Bivens, according to a report on Tuesday by Golf World magazine. Seven votes are needed to remove Bivens, who is also a board member. 
 ''We, as players, we want to be more involved in what is happening, and we want to see the tour going in a better direction,'' Ochoa, the tour's player of the year for the past three years, said Wednesday. Referring to the tour's board, she added: ''There's not much we can do. I believe they will do the best for us. And hopefully things will start, you know, moving in a good direction, because we are worried that we're losing tournaments and we want to get back on a good track.''
 It has been a difficult year for the L.P.G.A. Tour in general and for Bivens in particular. 
 Last August, Bivens introduced a proposal that foreign-born players with two years' experience on the tour be proficient in English or face suspension beginning in 2009. The language policy -- believed at the time to be the only one of its kind in a major sport -- was widely seen as aimed at the large group of Asian players on the tour. After receiving criticism from some players, civil rights groups and even lawmakers, Bivens and the tour reversed course and dropped plans to suspend players.
 Beyond that debate, however, concerns have grown in the past year about the tour's overall health. When Bivens became commissioner in 2005, the L.P.G.A. had 35 tournaments. That number decreased to 28 before the tour announced that the Kapalua L.P.G.A. Classic would not be played this year. 
 The tour has lost three events in Hawaii this year and will not play another event in the United States until the end of August. It has only 10 contracts with title sponsors for the 2010 tour, and the status of at least three other events is uncertain. The tour also lost important backing from McDonald's, which was the title sponsor of the L.P.G.A. Championship for 16 years. 
 Despite the weak economy, Bivens has asked tour sponsors to share a greater part of the costs of holding tournaments, according to multiple news accounts. For example, Bivens has asked sponsors to contribute more money to the tour's electronic scoring system, which can cost up to $100,000 to maintain at a tournament. 
 Fewer tournaments and fewer sponsors mean less prize money for the players. The prospect of losing even more tournaments has created an uneasy feeling among those on the tour.
 Representatives of sponsors that have contracts with the United States Golf Association, which runs the United States Women's Open, said they were unconcerned with the controversy. 
 Players like Creamer and Kerr said they did not want to comment publicly on the leadership issues because of the Open's status as a U.S.G.A. event. 
 ''Our player organization is very focused on how these difficult economic times affect our tour,'' Kerr said on Tuesday. ''And we are actively working with our executive board of management to create the best product for our partners and fans, so let's talk about the U.S. Open this week.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Teresa Lu of Taiwan during a practice round Wednesday for the United States Women's Open at Saucon Valley Country Club in Bethlehem, Pa. (pg.B11)
 Lorena Ochoa, right, with Sophia Sheridan at the Open, said the players want to be more involved in the tour's direction. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (pg.B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



232 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Fair Pay for Caregivers

 BODY:
Change is too slow coming for the nation's one million home care aides. In 2007, the Supreme Court unanimously upheld a 1975 federal labor regulation that defines home care aides as ''companions.'' That definition exempts home care employers -- often for-profit agencies -- from having to pay the federal minimum wage or time and a half for overtime. 
 In explaining their decision, the justices pointed out that the law gives the Labor Department, not the court, the power to change the regulation. Yet, more than two years later, the regulation still stands. 
 Last month, 15 senators sent a letter to Hilda Solis, President Obama's labor secretary, urging her to eliminate the ''companion'' exemption. A month earlier, 37 House members sent a similar letter. But beyond a statement from Ms. Solis expressing concern and pledging to look into the matter, there has been no progress. 
 Not surprisingly, home care aides -- who typically help to feed, dress and move their elderly and disabled clients, in addition to keeping house for them -- remain among the most underpaid and overworked in the labor force. They usually manage to make above the nationwide minimum wage ($6.55 an hour now, rising to $7.25 an hour later this month), in large part because many states impose higher minimums than the feds. 
 Still, most make below $10 an hour. And they are routinely denied overtime pay. Federal rules do not demand it, and only 16 states and the District of Columbia require any extra pay for extra work. Lack of overtime pay is especially unjust in the home care field because extra long shifts, including overnight stays, are common. 
 Taxpayers ultimately make up for the low pay because many home care aides rely on food stamps and other public assistance. The public pays in other ways, too: turnover is high, undermining the quality of care and driving up overall costs.
 The Labor Department got off to a slow start when Republican senators held up Ms. Solis's confirmation, in part, to protest her support for unions. But further delay raises the danger that the plight of home care aides will get mired in the broader debate over health care costs.
 Another danger is that industry opposition to better pay will gain renewed traction in today's troubled economy. Some home care employers say that having to pay extra for overtime could drive them out of business. In states where varying degrees of wage and overtime protections are in place for home care aides, that has not been the result. And a business model that relies on denying overtime pay to the work force is unacceptable. 
 When the Labor Department issues a new rule, there is a comment period, generally three months. That should be enough time to deal with legitimate concerns, like how to help states whose Medicaid home care budgets are based on the previous pay practices. Home care aides should not have to wait any longer than that for the fair pay they have been denied for so long. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MEDICAID (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%)

PERSON: HILDA L SOLIS (77%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



233 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; WIFE/MOTHER/WORKER/SPY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Relax, I'm Honing My Skills

BYLINE: By MICHELLE SLATALLA. 
E-mail: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS soon as school finally let out for summer, I dug out a pile of murder mysteries I've been meaning to read, dragged an old steamer chair into the sunniest spot of the backyard and promptly fell asleep with an open book on my lap.
 In other words, my seasonal self-improvement campaign got off to a great start. 
 That is, until my husband found me.
 ''You're napping?'' he asked. ''In the middle of the day?''
 In the middle of the summer, actually, when people are supposed to kick back, relax, recharge and get some perspective. 
 ''You should try it,'' I said. ''It's good for you. Look, there's research.''
 I waggled the evidence in his face. It was a print of an e-mail message I got from the University of Missouri School of Health Professions, which I'd been carrying around like a talisman since its arrival. 
 I pointed to the pertinent part. ''It says right here that in the summer it's important for people to have plenty of unstructured playtime, to develop problem-solving and critical-thinking skills,'' I said. 
 ''This may be your greatest scam yet,'' he said, grabbing the paper from my hand and studying it like a labor lawyer searching for a me-too clause. 
 I settled back in my seat, hoping this would be the last interruption for a while. I was reading Kate Atkinson's ''Case Histories'' and, weirdly, I was right at the part where the wife takes an ax to her husband, when my own spouse said: ''Not so fast.''
 He jabbed at the fine print.
 ''This doesn't say a word about you or, for that matter, adults in general,'' he said. ''It recommends unstructured playtime for children.''
 ''So?'' I asked. ''If it's good for them, it has to be good for us, too, doesn't it? And why does everything that's good, or fun, or nurturing to one's soul have to be a special treat that's reserved for children, anyway?''
 Not to sound whiny. But this summer, of all summers, we middle-aged adults are the ones who need to take some kind of a breather. After months of worry, worry, worry -- about the economy, about paying for college, about whether our jobs are going to disappear before our investments and retirement accounts rebound from their spectacular losses -- we need to recover. Starting with a nap.
 It stands to reason that unstructured playtime, which has been proved to foster imagination, self-reliance and creativity in children, also can be beneficial to adults. Improving any of those skills would make me a better, more productive worker in the long run.
 Instead, we stressed-out adults, age 30 to 49, are the very people who are living the most structured, demanding lives. We work the most hours of any age group, according to reports compiled by the Sloan Work and Family Research Network at Boston College, which not so coincidentally also warns that the most overworked parents are the ones who have teenagers.
 And yet, ''nobody's saying that parents need playtime,'' said Judi C. Casey, the network's director, when I reached her last week at her office (on a nice sunny day). ''For some reason, we see that as a luxury, something we reserve for children, and it's turning us from human beings into human 'doings.' ''
 The next time my husband showed up at my side -- to tell me my desk phone was ringing ''rather insistently'' -- I shrieked, ''Stop treating me like a human doing!'' in the hopes that this would deflect him.
 He didn't buy it.
 ''You had your years of unstructured playtime -- when you were a child,'' he said. ''And you know very well there's no research that backs up your ridiculous contention that napping in the sun will help develop any skills.''
 ''I'm not a human doing!'' I said.
 ''It wasn't funny the first time,'' he said.
 Beaten down, I went inside and called the University of Missouri School of Health Professions to muster more ammunition.
 The first thing I learned was that Lea Ann Lowery, the researcher who recommended unstructured playtime for children, was on vacation, a fact that bolstered my position. Undeterred, I managed to track her down, and Professor Lowery kindly interrupted her trip to call me from the side of the road. She admitted that while there technically was no research to prove that unstructured playtime helps develop adults' critical thinking and problem solving, it didn't disprove it, either.
 ''Most of the literature I've seen about adults has to do with their well-being, rather than with their development,'' she said. ''But we know that the pursuit of recreation -- of leisure -- makes adults feel more relaxed. And it stands to reason that feeling relaxed will make you more productive.''
 The pursuit of recreation doesn't have to be expensive to be effective, either. Mountains of studies have shown that in cultures where people spend more time relaxing at home or just hanging out with their families, folks live healthier and longer lives, Professor Lowery said.
 ''Would you mind repeating all that to my husband?'' I asked, turning around to hand him the phone.
 But he was gone.
 ''You can learn a lot of things by playing tennis for an hour,'' Professor Lowery said. ''Or by playing Frisbee. Or taking a walk.''
 ''So you think I should go play tennis right now, as soon as I get off the phone, instead of working more?'' I pressed.
 ''I think you should,'' she said.
 I hung up the phone. On my way to get my tennis racket, I found my husband -- asleep in the steamer chair. He looked smarter already.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HADLEY HOOPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); LAWYERS (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (62%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



234 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW BRONX MUSEUM; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Young Artists Arrive, Either Rough or Ready

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
Who's ready for prime time? That is what we might have asked a couple of years ago about ''Living and Dreaming,'' the Bronx Museum's annual presentation of works by young artists completing its preparatory program for careers as professionals. The course, Artists in the Marketplace, now in its 29th year, is a series of seminars in the fall and spring that offer advice from established artists, critics, curators, dealers and lawyers.
 Some better questions in these trying economic times: Who's in it for the long haul? Who has the patience, determination and whatever else it takes to keep the faith in the face of minimal encouragement? Of the 36 artists represented, most look as if they could use a few more years of seasoning away from the public eye. But there are a handful who already look like artists worth watching. Three are video makers. 
 In a room the size of a walk-in closet, Eva Davidova has installed four monitors and a wall projection in which brief, dreamlike scenes occur: a young boy hovers, facing into a bathroom's white tiled corner. A woman floats upside-down in slow motion near the ceiling. 
 In a strangely erotic and moving image, a hand probes the crevice between two surrealistically flowing concrete walls. And most bizarre, a naked torso is penetrated by the John Berger book ''Ways of Seeing,'' drawing blood, in a horrifying and absurd image that David Cronenberg would appreciate. 
 Meredith Drum's ''Double,'' a single video projection, also traffics in enigmatic, vaguely erotic fantasy. In a nine-minute narrative resembling an ultra-low-budget science fiction movie, two women are trapped for unexplained reasons on a nearly deserted beach, where anonymous men walk this way and that. The women perform a magic ceremony and take pills that will presumably help them escape their situation. In the end one happily rides off with a man on a bicycle.
 In video from a series of works called ''Momme Portrait Series,'' LaToya Ruby Frazier engages in playful physical contact with her mother. They affectionately butt foreheads, pull each other's hair and grapple like wrestlers, generating an emotional poignancy unmatched by anything else in the exhibition.
 Many of the artists are represented by only one piece, which makes it difficult to estimate their potential, but a few others -- sculptors in particular -- also look promising.
 Nathan Bennett's walk-in sculpture ''Mother'' is like a set for another Stanley Kubrick space odyssey. In the middle of an octagonal room constructed mostly of cut-up pieces of white foam core stands a control console with a keyboard and grids of little lights. Along with fake dark plasma screens, tiny lights glinting like stars are built into the walls. Despite the cheap materials, the whole produces an ethereal and oddly suspenseful effect. 
 Jessie Henson's ''Lawn,'' a lumpy, irregularly shaped 16-foot-long sculpture on the floor made of patches of various shades of green fabric, is like a three-dimensional topographical map of a tropical island. Up close, you discover that it consists of pieces of shag carpet, creating a witty and sensuous play on the tension between nature and culture.
 Nearby is a sculpture that could also have been created by Mr. Henson. It is Jonathan Brand's ''Island of Despair,'' in which a model sailboat is upside-down in a transparent tank of water, its hull floating on the surface, while its red sails reach into the limpid depths. It might be a mystical metaphor about the inversion of ordinary consciousness. 
 Painting does not make a strong impression over all, but Jeffrey Hargrave's expressionistic cartoon riffs on racist caricatures have an infectiously rowdy energy. Perhaps one day he will take over where Robert Colescott, the black painter and social satirist who died last month, left off.
 Made in gouache with meticulous precision, Robert Amesbury's ''Terrarium'' offers a close-up look into a contained, paradisiacal scene of greatly enlarged purple flowers and a cactus sprouting orange blossoms growing from a bed of rounded pebbles. With a background of muted concentric circles, it suggests computer-animated psychedelia. 
 It is interesting to notice how little Conceptualism is in the show, which might reflect the influence of an art market that once was ravenous for salable objects. Wilfredo Ortega updates old-school Conceptualists like Sol LeWitt and Daniel Buren with a series of rectangular colored vinyl sheets neatly adhered to the wall with colored vinyl tape. It's a simple formula that you can imagine being developed into optically arresting, site-specific installations.
 Besides Mr. Hargrave's mock-racist works, overtly political art is also in relatively short supply. An exception is a construction by Brendan Fernandes in which viewers watch a video of elephant tusks overlaid by a scrim of flames through the window of a camouflaged sniper's tent. Compared with the world at large evoked by such works, the art world seems considerably less grim. 
 ''Living and Dreaming'' runs through Sept. 13 at the Bronx Museum, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania; (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an art review on Thursday about the exhibition ''Living and Dreaming,'' at the Bronx Museum, referred incorrectly to the artist whose sculpture ''Lawn'' is in the show. The artist, Jessie Henson, is a woman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From ''Living and Dreaming'': Top, Robert Amesbury's ''Terrarium''
center left, the shag carpet ''Lawn,'' by Jessie Henson
center right, Jeffrey Hargrave's ''Lip Gloss''
above, a scene from LaToya Ruby Frazier's video ''Momme Portrait Series,'' which features the artist and her mother.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COLE FRATES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSIE HENSON/BRONX MUSEUM)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY HARGRAVE/BRONX MUSEUM)
 (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF HIGHER PICTURES, NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); FILM (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (73%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



235 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Consumers, Still Wary, Borrowed Less in May

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumers trimmed borrowing in May for the fourth consecutive month as the recession took another bite out of investments.
 Many economists predict that consumers will stay cautious, setting the stage for a lethargic recovery if the downturn ends later this year as many expect. 
 The Federal Reserve said Wednesday that consumer credit fell at an annual rate of 1.5 percent, or by $3.2 billion, from April. Economists expected a deeper cut of $9.5 billion.
 But the new figures still represented the latest move by consumers to curb borrowing, pay down debt and strengthen household budgets. Americans have been spending less and saving more to cope with the recession, which started in December 2007 and is the longest since World War II.
 The savings rate jumped to 6.9 percent in May, the highest since December 1993. The amount saved -- $768.8 billion -- was the most on records that started in January 1959, the government recently reported.
 ''Once consumers feel a little safer about the economy and their own jobs, they're going to spend some of that savings,'' predicted John Canally, economist at LPL Financial, adding that he did not see recent changes in consumer behavior ''torpedoing the recovery.''
 Revised data show consumers ratcheted back borrowing at a 7.8 percent pace in April, or by $16.5 billion. That was a bigger cut than first reported and the largest in dollar terms on records dating to 1943. The $15.6 billion drop in March was slightly less than previously reported, but the second-largest tally ever.
 The Fed's measure of consumer borrowing does not include debt secured by real estate, like mortgages or home equity loans.
 In May, consumers' appetite for revolving credit, primarily credit cards, declined at a rate of 3.7 percent, or by $2.9 billion. That followed a 11.1 percent annualized drop in April, or $8.7 billion.
 Demand for nonrevolving credit used to finance cars, vacations, education and other things dipped at a 0.3 percent pace in May, or by $367 million. That came after consumers sliced such borrowing at a 5.9 percent pace in April, or $7.8 billion.

GRAPHIC: CHART: CONSUMER BORROWING: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



236 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: A Dairy Farm Can't Lay Off The Cows

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HOBART, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 It's never been an easy life. Up at 4:30 for the first milking, finish up around 8 at night. You make a living, but not much of one, which is why the average age of dairy farmers keeps creeping up into the 50s and 60s. The big payday is when you get out of it and sell your land.
 ''It's a profession that if you weren't born into it, no one would do it,'' said Donald Hosking, who with his wife, Joanne, raises 100 Holsteins on 81 lovely rolling acres in Delaware County at the far reaches of the Catskills. ''We just don't know any better.'' 
 So back when they started dairy farming on Roses Brook Road 22 years ago, there were seven other dairy farms on the road. Now one other is still hanging on, and the rest have been sold to lawyers, architects, commodity brokers from the city and suburbs. In 1998, there were 8,700 dairy farmers in New York. Now there are 5,700.
 For all the vagaries of markets and weather and balky cows, there used to be a hazy ostensible logic to the business. Now it's a global market complicated by commodities traders, the balance between imports and exports, the needs of agri-conglomerates, and the role played by strange new players like the imported milk protein concentrates, or M.P.C.'s, which some say are distorting the market with unregulated and potentially unsafe milk substitutes used in cheeses and dips.
 But the bottom line seems to be that the global recession slammed the brakes on demand -- fewer restaurant visits, less ice cream, less cheese -- at a time of peak supply. Two years ago, Mr. Hosking was making about $20 per 100 pounds of milk. Now he's making about $10.85. Meanwhile his costs -- grain, fuel, high-protein feed -- have gone up about 50 percent. Last year he took out about $40,000 from savings to keep going. This year it will be about $50,000. Farmers who have tapped out their equity -- a growing number -- could be gone in months. 
 ''It's 1973 prices and 2009 costs,'' he said. ''It still costs X number of dollars to run the farm, no matter what you're bringing in. Detroit can shut down when their lots are full. We still have to feed and milk our cows every day.''
 Dave Rama, who has a cattle auction business in Delhi, said everyone was in the same boat, with the cost of producing milk exceeding its price.
 ''I am learning more about bankruptcy than I ever intended to learn,'' Mr. Rama said.
 He drives from Mr. Hosking's farm to Unadilla, the hills impossibly green from all the rain, grain silos poking into the blue sky. There he meets two of the younger farmers, Luke and Derek Johnson, 32 and 24, Cornell ag achool grads taking over their family farm. There are 300 cows and beehives and fields of corn, the bounty of American agriculture everywhere you turn.
 LUKE JOHNSON says he's always been an optimist, and he figures this will work out, too. He's lucky to have a highly regarded farm operation, though he worries about his neighbors and already has $300,000 in debt against $500,000 in equity in cows and machinery. Still, he says: ''It's hard to see good farmers desperate. I was just in California at the national Holstein convention, and all the delegates there had desperate looks on their faces, as if they didn't know what was going to happen next.''
 It all seems far away. We don't see where our food comes from, and who could pay attention anyway, what with the endless cavalcade of amusements that's the summer news -- the randy governors and senators, Jon and Kate, poor, put-upon Sarah Palin, the farewell to M.J.? But maybe that's the idea. In the real world around the corner and in distant places like Hobart and Delhi and Unadilla it's not getting better and it's not getting clearer, so bring on the freak shows, the more the merrier.
 Mike Van Amburgh is an animal science professor at Cornell who grew up on an Ohio dairy farm. ''I'm almost 50 years old, and in my lifetime it's never been this bad,'' he said. ''Everyone's in the red.''
 For the dairy farmers, he said, absent a sudden worldwide boom pumping up demand, the most likely result is a historic washout of dairy farmers -- some say 10 percent, 20 percent or more around the end of the year -- that would reduce supply, raise prices and reset the bar. 
 Which kind of dairymen, he was asked, are in the biggest trouble? 
 ''Everybody,'' he replied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (86%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); MILK (77%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); MOUNTAINS (69%); NUTRITION (69%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



237 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: For Firstborns, Secondhand Fits the Bill

BYLINE: By SARAH WILDMAN

 BODY:
MICAH HILDENBRAND and her husband, Eric, are corporate lawyers who live in an affluent neighborhood in Washington and drive a Lexus SUV. But when their son, Chase, was born in January, they trawled friends' garages rather than shop at places like Buy Buy Baby, the megastore that caters to new parents.
 Nearly all of Chase's belongings are hand-me-downs or were bought secondhand, from the onesies to the fully tricked-out Bugaboo Cameleon -- the top of the line Dutch stroller that the Hildenbrands bought on a listserv for a fraction of its $900 price tag. Mrs. Hildenbrand said that a good salary wasn't reason enough to spend money that might not always be there.
 ''We want to hedge in case something does happen,'' she said. 
 Observers of baby consumerism say such caution is not unusual these days. It is mirrored in the declining fortunes of the $343-million ''play and discover'' market -- toys and goods marketed to parents of children under a year old -- which has fallen by more than a third over the last year and a half. The recession, it seems, has catalyzed a moment of reflection among the formerly free-spending new-parent set: used is good; free is best. New purchases have become more considered, less spontaneous. 
 Experts say the children's market is just playing catch-up to a radical consumer shift taking place across all luxury sectors. But some say the new attitude reflects a broader change in perspective when it comes to conspicuous consumption for young children. No longer is it necessary to buy a thousand-dollar changing table in order to prove your parental savvy and breadth of love; if anything, the opposite is true.
 THIS new frugality is celebrated by anti-consumerism groups, dreaded by retailers, and mused over by social scientists who say we might be on the cusp of raising a new generation of depression-era babies. Not only are children named after their grandparents these days, but all those Rubys, Sadies and Harrys at the playgrounds may end up thinking like them as well. 
 ''The recession has liberated us from a lot of the consumer expectations so that we can have a big enough space to feel really comfortable just giving our kids a pot and a spoon,'' said Robbie Blinkoff, a cultural anthropologist at Context-Based Research Group, an ethnographic marketing research firm in Baltimore. 
 Susan Linn, the director of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, agrees. The recession, she said, provides a chance for families to back away from ''a pattern of escalation in spending on children.''
 She added, ''This is a good time to look at whether this is good for kids generally and not just for families whose income has been diminished.''
 Retailers like Lisa Mahar have certainly noticed a change.
 ''Three years ago, in the heyday of the moment, someone would come into the shop and say, 'I want the most expensive thing you have,' '' said Ms. Mahar, a designer of educational toys and the owner of Kid O, a toy shop in Manhattan.
 But now, she said: ''People are much more discreet how they shop. Large orders are placed on the phone. And at birthday parties I see a difference. No one will bring a $300 LikeaBike anymore. Culturally, it's just not acceptable anymore. Even for those who can afford a $200 toy.''
 Sam Apple, a writer and father of three who lives in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn and recently wrote a memoir called ''American Parent,'' said, ''This is definitely a Craigslist economy.''
 Mr. Apple's book navigates the tricky shoals of parenting, child-rearing and shopping from the bewildered perspective of the inundated new dad. Like the Hildenbrands, Mr. Apple and his wife, Jennifer, thumb their noses at what the blogosphere calls the ''baby industrial complex.'' For their first child, the house was filled with new, luxe and name-brand items.
 ''New parents are the ideal targets for marketers,'' he said. ''They're confused and anxious almost by definition.'' 
 But for their new twins, they received a hand-me-down double stroller from friends and they plucked cribs from secondhand sales. 
 Some analysts are surprised at how quickly new parents have begun to wise up.
 Tim Dowd, a senior analyst for Packaged Facts, a research firm based in Rockville, Md., said that the play and discover market has had what he calls a ''reversal of fortune'' over the last year.
 While that market climbed 75 percent from 2003 to 2007, last year was a different story altogether. In the first 10 months of 2008, even before the economy had experienced its most marked downturn, the play and discover market began to collapse, losing about one-third of its retail value, Mr. Dowd said. 
 For many companies, it has only become worse. Mattel -- owner of Fisher-Price, Barbie and American Girl, among others -- saw a 15 percent drop in first-quarter sales this year. Dorel, the parent of the company that makes the haute Dutch stroller, the Quinny, and the plush Maxi-Cosi infant car seat, reported a 17.7 percent decrease in sales for their juvenile segment in North America and Europe for the same period.
 Even Bugaboo, the company that is at the forefront of the luxe stroller movement, has felt the pinch. After growing nearly 33 percent each year from 2005 to 2008, a spokeswoman for the company recently said it is now hoping to clear 3 percent growth this year.
 MEANWHILE, brands like Skip Hop, known for its ''Duo'' diaper bag -- which, at $54, hit the midprice sweet spot -- are doing well. In fact, 2008 was Skip Hop's best year yet, said Ellen Diamant, a founder.
 ''People are being less indulgent,'' she said, but they are expecting a lot more for their money. ''They want gorgeous design, they want ethical, they want organic. But they don't want to pay what they would have paid a year ago.''
 Trying to hit that same note, Oeuf, the line of modern cribs that entered the market at $900, recently introduced a $500 crib made of eco-friendly wood. 
 ''Fashionability of product is beginning to change,'' said Chris Sanderson, a director of Future Laboratory, a trend-forecasting group based in London. ''Something that is cool has longevity, inherent sustainability and good design.'' 
 The reason for the change, Mr. Sanderson said, has much to do with an ''emotional response to the glut of consumerism.''
 Such consciousness is championed by those who have long protested the encroachment of consumerism into parenting. Until recently, children in America received, on average, 70 new toys a year, Ms. Linn said. She calls the recession an opportunity to have a conversation with children about the rampant spending on their behalf.
 Marketers, she said, ''use fear to make parents buy things they really don't need. We are not going to live sustainably in a culture that is built on excessive consumption.''
 Jennifer Cavalleri and Dan Durkin, who had twins in April, are very much in tune with Ms. Linn's thinking.
 ''For us it's less the economy and more about lessening our environmental impact,'' said Dr. Cavalleri, who recently received a doctorate in environmental health at Harvard.
 The couple took hand-me-downs from relatives, and gleaned gear from a twins support group.
 Greg Allen, whose blog, daddytypes.com, monitors the industry, said: ''There is a sense that there is just so much stuff for kids already out there that the idea of buying brand-new seems completely unnecessary. Even sexy stuff is eye candy at best, and there is no guarantee your kid will like the expensive Alexander Calder pull toy you bought.
 ''When youdiscover that, you focus on what your kid really likes and needs, which is a very small percentage of what's out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KEEP IT SIMPLE: New parents are rethinking consumerism, forgoing luxury purchases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.E1)
FRUGAL STEPS: Sam and Jennifer Apple switched from luxury baby items to hand-me-downs. Below, Lisa Mahar, shop owner, says a $200 toy is ''just not acceptable anymore.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (83%); LAWYERS (78%); YOUTH MARKET (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



238 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Master Animator to Be Honored in U.S. Visit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When the schedule of events for the 40th Comic-Con International fan convention is announced on Thursday, it is expected to include something quite rare, even for a gathering that has pretty much seen it all: an appearance by Hayao Miyazaki.
 Mr. Miyazaki, regarded by many as the world's greatest maker of animated films, does not seem to crave publicity. He was a no-show at the Oscars in 2003, when his ''Spirited Away'' won for best animated feature. 
 And he has not been quick to visit this country. ''I think he has an image of the United States as a culture that isn't that helpful to the world,'' offered Duncan Williams, chairman of the Center for Japanese Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
 Yet the very private Mr. Miyazaki, in an extraordinary step, has agreed to address a room full of 6,500 admirers at the San Diego comics, fantasy and film convention on July 24. That is a prelude to his planned appearance the next day in Berkeley, where Mr. Williams's center will present Mr. Miyazaki with its Japan Prize, awarded annually to a person who has brought the world closer to Japan.
 July 28, should find Mr. Miyazaki in Beverly Hills, Calif., to be honored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. The night before, he will be in Hollywood for the United States premiere of his ''Ponyo,'' about a 5-year-old boy and a goldfish princess in a world gone awry. 
 In part Mr. Miyazaki's surprise tour is a promotional event: already a hit in many countries, ''Ponyo,'' in an English-language version, with Tina Fey and Matt Damon among those providing the voices, is set for release by Walt Disney Studios on Aug. 14. (Disney handles his films in many territories worldwide.)
 But his arrival is also a cultural moment.
 At the age of 68, with almost 20 features to his credit, Mr. Miyazaki has become a beacon for those who believe that animation has a special power to tell stories with universal appeal.
 ''He celebrates the quiet moments,'' said John Lasseter, the chief creative officer of Pixar and Disney Animation Studios, in enumerating traits that make Mr. Miyazaki ''one of the most original'' filmmakers ever.
 Mr. Lasseter, a friend of Mr. Miyazaki for more than 20 years, said he routinely looked to the master's work, which has often combined computer animation with traditional techniques, for inspiration in directing or producing computer-animated films like the ''Toy Story'' installments, ''Cars'' or ''Up,'' all from Pixar.
 Mr. Miyazaki visited the United States in 1999, when Disney's unit Miramax Films released his ''Princess Mononoke.'' The film took in about $2.4 million at the domestic box office, but had $157 million in ticket sales in the rest of the world. 
 According to Mr. Lasseter, Mr. Miyazaki has seldom traveled outside of Japan since, preferring to remain at the headquarters of Studio Ghibli, his production company, in suburban Tokyo.
 This time around Mr. Lasseter coaxed Mr. Miyazaki out with an assurance. ''If you come over, I'll be by your side the whole time,'' Mr. Lasseter recalls telling him.
 An e-mailed query to a representative for Mr. Miyazaki in Japan drew no response.
 At Comic-Con Mr. Miyazaki and Mr. Lasseter are expected to appear as part of an animation presentation that will give a glimpse not only at ''Ponyo,'' but also at a series of coming Disney films, including ''Toy Story 3,'' ''Beauty and the Beast 3-D'' and ''The Princess and the Frog.''
 Mr. Miyazaki will not be the only revered figure at this year's convention. It is expected to include an appearance by James Cameron, who is scheduled for a July 23 presentation about 3-D filmmaking and his coming ''Avatar,'' for 20th Century Fox. Also on hand will be Peter Jackson. He was a producer of the forthcoming ''District 9'' for Sony Pictures; director of ''The Lovely Bones,'' to be released by Paramount Pictures; and has been working as a writer and producer of ''The Hobbit'' for New Line Cinema and MGM.
 Still, Mr. Miyazaki, with his roots in both manga and anime (comic books and animated films), may have unusually wide appeal among the 125,000 or so fans who often spend their time at Comic-Con burrowing into esoterica and personal obsessions like the state of steampunk (fantasy set in a steam-driven world) or what kind of action figures toymakers would make if nobody stopped them -- both subjects of presentations last year.
 ''Probably a third of the convention will care'' intensely about Mr. Miyazaki's presence, said Mark Evanier, an author and Hollywood writer-producer who plans to conduct a number of panel discussions at this year's gathering. (Convention tickets have long been sold out.)
 Oddly, the cult around Mr. Miyazaki has yet to create a box office hit in the United States. His previous feature-length film, ''Howl's Moving Castle,'' was nominated for an Oscar in 2006, but took in less than $5 million here, while selling more than $230 million in tickets abroad.
 Mark Zoradi, president of Disney's motion picture group, said the company was trying to expand Mr. Miyazaki's audience here by releasing ''Ponyo'' more widely than it has his past films, in 800 theaters, and by promoting it on the Disney Channel, Disney.com and elsewhere. 
 Yet Mr. Miyazaki and his work, according to Mr. Williams of Berkeley, have become a primary portal for those who would learn more about Japan. 
 New scholars, said Mr. Williams, whose center has already sold out its Miyazaki appearance, used to talk about studying an economic competitor.
 ''Today, no student says that,'' Mr. Williams said. ''They talk about growing up with Japanese manga, Japanese anime.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the planned appearance of Hayao Miyazaki, the renowned maker of animated films, at the Comic-Con International fan convention in San Diego this month referred incorrectly to the screening of his film ''Ponyo'' in Hollywood on July 27, which he is expected to attend. It will be a screening for people in the film industry -- not the American premiere, which took place in June at the Los Angeles Film Festival.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene from ''Ponyo,'' a coming film by Hayao Miyazaki, often called the Walt Disney of Japan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALT DISNEY)(pg. C1)
 Hayao Miyazaki, whose animated movies have had global success, has a new film, ''Ponyo,'' out Aug. 14 in the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLAS GUERIN/CORBIS)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (89%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (82%); WALT DISNEY CO (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (64%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (64%)

PERSON: JOHN LASSETER (57%); MATT DAMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



239 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Vow to Block UBS From Giving Names to U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The Swiss government, vowing to protect its vaunted bank secrecy laws, said on Wednesday that it was prepared to seize UBS client data rather than allow the bank to hand it over to the United States to settle a tax case.
 The dispute, which is playing out in federal court in a Miami, has become a test of Washington's efforts to pierce Swiss banking laws as it tries to crack down on wealthy Americans who avoid taxes by hiding money in secret offshore accounts. 
 The Justice Department sued the Swiss banking giant UBS in February, saying it suspected the bank of helping Americans hide billions of dollars. But so far UBS has refused a demand that it turn over the names of 52,000 American clients, arguing that to do so would be illegal under Swiss banking secrecy laws and would open it to prosecution at home.
 A hearing has been scheduled next week in Federal District Court in Miami. Swiss authorities, in a court filing Wednesday, said that they would not allow UBS to turn over the names. 
 ''Switzerland makes it perfectly clear that Swiss law prohibits UBS from complying with a possible order by the court in Miami to hand over the client information,'' the Swiss Department of Justice and Police said Wednesday in a statement on its Web site. 
 Therefore, ''all the necessary measures should be taken to prevent UBS from handing over the information on the 52,000 account holders demanded in the U.S. civil proceeding,'' it added. 
 The agency said that ''if circumstances require,'' the Swiss government would issue an order explicitly prohibiting UBS from handing over client information. 
 Serge Steiner, a UBS spokesman in Zurich, said it has always been UBS's position that divulging the client data would be a breach of Swiss law, and ''the issue should be discussed by the two friendly governments.'' 
 The bank, Mr. Steiner added, is ''always open to an appropriate solution.''
 The judge in the case, Alan S. Gold, asked the United States government on Wednesday to clarify its response should the Swiss refuse to comply with a potential order that the names be turned over, including ''receivership and/or seizure of UBS' assets within the United States,'' according to The Associated Press. He set a deadline of Sunday for a reply.
 UBS, the largest Swiss bank, is under great pressure to reach an agreement. The bank has already paid $780 million and turned over the names of more than 250 clients to avoid prosecution on claims that it defrauded the Internal Revenue Service. Its soured investments, many on American subprime mortgages, have cost it $53 billion in write-downs, sending it to taxpayers for a bailout. 
 ''On the one side, you have the U.S. government wanting to get back some missing taxes, and on the other you have a bank that is admitting some responsibility,'' said Nicolas Michellod, an analyst in Zurich with Celent, a research firm. ''Eventually, I'm sure we'll see UBS paying a fine.''
 UBS last month raised about $3.5 billion in new capital, and Mr. Michellod suggested the bank might have been provisioning for just such an eventuality. 
 Doris Leuthard, the Swiss economy minister, said on Tuesday in Washington that UBS had made mistakes and would have to ''pay a price'' to reach a deal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING LAW (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); JUDGES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); WEB SITES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (76%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (94%); UBS (NYSE) (94%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



240 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Unveils More Frugal Bank Plan

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Jack Healy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For nearly a year, the question has vexed Washington and Wall Street: What do we do with all these impaired mortgage investments? 
 The answer still, it seems, is wait and hope. 
 After months of back-and-forth with the banking industry, the Obama administration on Wednesday unveiled a scaled-down version of its plan to buy troubled mortgage-related securities. The decision represents a huge gamble that banks have recovered sufficiently to help pull the economy out of recession. 
 In the program, the Treasury, Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said they would commit up to up to $30 billion of public money to buy bad mortgage-related securities from banks. 
 They named nine fund managers who together would commit up to an additional $30 billion more and oversee the funds to purchase the assets. The total of $60 billion to go toward purchasing the assets from banks was significantly less than was originally foreseen as being necessary to tackle the ailing financial sector in March.
 The Treasury conceded that the program was ''modest'' but that it could be expanded if the economy or financial markets deteriorated. It also insisted that it was only one of several programs under way to help the economy and that others like the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, were working well.
 The plan was initially started nearly four months ago, as a way to purge banks of trillions of dollars of souring loans and securities built up during the subprime era. The authorities feared these bad assets would weigh down banks and discourage them from making the loans needed to revive the economy. 
 The decision to scale back the program rests on an assumption that the stabilization of financial markets since then and the return to profitability among some of the banks are sustainable. The risk, some experts warn, is that the worst may not yet be over. Many banks may still face big losses this year and next, particularly if unemployment remains high or, as many economists predict, home foreclosures mount and commercial real estate continues to founder. 
 ''It's clear that there are a ton of losses still to come,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow of the Brookings Institution. ''How prepared are the banks to handle those? There is a great deal of uncertainty here.'' 
 In part, the administration had little choice but to scale back the program. Many banks refused to participate, believing that the assets they hold are worth far more than investors were willing to pay for them. Banks argue that they are in a much better stronger financial position than they were in the spring.
 Last month, the administration was forced to postpone indefinitely another central plank of its bank rescue plan -- the program to rid the banks of their bad home loans -- because it could not persuade enough banks to take part. 
 Some analysts question whether banks are strong enough to weather further losses. 
 Although the economy is not deteriorating as fast as it was, unemployment is still rising and banks are still only lending cautiously. The stock market, which reacted ecstatically after the program was announced in the spring, has fallen back in recent weeks, in part because of worries about the sclerotic pace of the recovery. 
 The Bank for International Settlements warned in its annual report last month that governments worldwide had not done enough to address the issue of weak assets and that this was holding back global lending.
 ''We will not get out of the recession until we stabilize housing,'' said Wilbur L. Ross, one of the fund managers selected. ''This is a big step in that direction.''
 Some analysts said the authorities were wise to begin with a scaled down version of the program which could be ramped up once it got going and proved to be successful. ''I personally think it makes sense to not use all your tools at once,'' said Moshe Orenbuch, a bank analyst at Credit Suisse.
 Mr. Ohrenbuch said it was not necessarily having troubled assets on their books that was preventing banks from lending again. He cited a range of other factors, including the weakness of demand among businesses and consumers for new loans.
 Andrew Rabinowitz, the chief operating officer of Marathon Asset Management, a $9 billion investment firm selected as one of the managers, said that although some of the bigger banks might be reluctant to participate by offloading their assets, there were many other financial institutions that still needed to move bad assets off their books in order to make new loans.
 ''There's no question in my mind that there's a purpose,'' Mr. Rabinowitz said.
 The prices of impaired assets, which plummeted when the crisis was at its most intense, rallied during the spring, in part because some banks were beginning to hoard the securities in anticipation of the government's initiatives to help the banks. But prices had fallen back in recent weeks over uncertainty about the scale of the funds and which classes of assets would be included in the program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (91%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



241 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: EMC Wins Data Domain With a $2.4 Billion Offer

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
Waving $2.4 billion in cash, EMC finally beat out NetApp, its archrival in the storage business, for the right to acquire Data Domain and its data deduplication technology. On Wednesday, NetApp dropped out of the bidding, and Data Domain's board approved EMC's offer.
 Even in the jargon-filled world of technology nomenclature, deduplication is a chunky term. Its promise, however, is straightforward enough: the technology can reduce a company's need for costly computer storage systems by half or more. 
 In this difficult economy, that is very appealing to customers. ''There is the potential for an enormous savings in capital expenditures,'' said Thomas M. Coughlin, the president of Coughlin Associates, a storage market research company. 
 And it helps explain the bidding war over Data Domain in the midst of a nasty recession. 
 The battle began at the end of May, when NetApp bid $25 a share for the company, using a mix of stock and cash for a $1.5 billion offer. While uninvited to the negotiations, EMC stepped in with a larger, hostile offer. NetApp countered, and EMC again raised its offer, culminating with an all-cash offer of $33.50 a share on Monday. 
 EMC said the net price of the deal, after subtracting Data Domain's cash on hand, was $2.1 billion.
 NetApp and EMC, the two largest independent storage technology companies, have deduplication products. But, in this part of the storage market, it seems that a company can never have enough of such technology, especially for corporate customers, whose volume of data grows 50 percent a year on average. 
 Deduplication software lets companies reduce the number of backup copies they need to make of similar files. Workers will, for example, pass around a slide presentation via e-mail and make minor changes to it along the way. With deduplication, an initial copy of the file is made and stored. From that point on, only the minor changes need to be backed up every day.
 ''It's those huge PowerPoint attachments that are being sent around to 20 people that are the problem,'' said Garth Gibson, a computer science professor at Carnegie Mellon University. 
 Data Domain, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., specializes in handling the large, corporatewide backups that companies make to protect their information. It uses similar techniques to reduce the amount of data that must travel between offices, as companies look to place their data in diverse locations.
 EMC makes its living selling storage systems, and technology that lowers the need for such products could prove troublesome. But, according to analysts, EMC will benefit from the technology by capitalizing on the continuing shift to storage systems based on spinning disks from older tape technology. 
 Companies have long used cheap magnetic tapes to hold backup files that are kept for emergencies rather than daily use. The problem is that the tape systems are slow and cumbersome. Companies would prefer to have their information stored on faster disks so they can retrieve files quickly. 
 The price of such disk storage systems has fallen steadily, making them more attractive for backup procedures. EMC, based in Hopkinton, Mass., sells only disk storage systems and sees this technology disruption as a way to take business from I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems, two major tape storage companies. 
 ''The cost of disks are now low enough that you can entertain having all your backups on disk instead of tape,'' Mr. Gibson said.
 The San Francisco Giants baseball team has used Data Domain's technology for two years to back up its corporate files. The 150-person organization, with annual revenue of about $250 million, used to send employees home with tapes on the weekends. Now, it shuttles information between San Francisco and an operation in Arizona over the Internet, said Bill Schlough, the team's chief information officer. 
 ''The system compresses all of our critical e-mail and file data, and sends it across the Internet on a daily basis,'' he said. ''It's something we needed just in case there's a big disaster at the ballpark.''
 EMC says it expects the Data Domain acquisition to close this month, and hopes to capitalize on Data Domain's strength in selling deduplication technology to midsize companies. EMC is expected to add some sales reach and investment heft to Data Domain's products. As for NetApp, the company intends to assess its options and decide whether to build similar technology in-house or try to make another purchase, said Tom Georgens, NetApp's president. 
 ''I think it was a good company,'' he said. ''The price was just pretty hard for us to justify.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); APPROVALS (57%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: EMC CORP (92%); NETAPP INC (90%)

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (92%); NTAP (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



242 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FINE POINTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: One Step Forward, Three Steps Back

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
AS with all things subject to the whims of fashion -- economic theories, exercise routines, ice cream flavors -- some are a step ahead, some a step behind. Shoes are no exception. Anything remotely square-toed is so past its ''sell by'' date that, well, if you see something, say something. And far out in front: the ivory-colored buckskin shoes with red rubber soles known invariably as white bucks. 
 The forerunners of today's status sneakers, they became fashionable a century ago, fancier versions of the light crepe-soled shoes worn for the newly fashionable sport of tennis. The novel red sole came later, in 1934, helping ignite another vogue for them as part of the debonair Palm Beach look. They came back again in the clean-cut 1950s and again in the prep-crazed 1980s. Now, if you listen closely -- those crepe soles are quiet -- you can hear them coming 'round the track again.
 At the Steven Alan store in TriBeCa, a custom-ordered shipment of white bucks (from the revered Alden of New England, made with unorthodox white rubber soles) has already sold out. At the Johnston & Murphy chain, sales of white bucks (traditionally strong in the South) are up markedly in nontraditional locations: in its New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco stores, a spokeswoman said.
 And Mark McNairy, the creative director at J. Press, has just introduced a shoe line of his own, made in the shoemaking capital of Northampton in England. The first models, hitting stores this week, are white bucks and their more rockabilly cousins, saddle shoes.
 ''It started because I had so much trouble finding a really good pair,'' said Mr. McNairy, who grew up wearing white bucks in Greensboro, N.C. ''They're a little more all-American than they are preppy. You can wear them really dressy with a suit, or you can wear them with jeans or shorts. They look great pristine and new, and they look good all beat to kingdom come -- and the same goes for saddle shoes.'' 
 Plus, he said, ''it takes a little cockiness to wear them.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCUFFS OPTIONAL: From left: white nubuck and brown leather saddle shoes, $375 at Epaulet in Brooklyn
white bucks, $130 at Johnston & Murphy and johnstonmurphy .com
white bucks, $410 at Alden and aldenshoe.com
Mark McNairy red-soled white bucks, $335 at Epaulet
 nubuck chukka boots, $425 at Alden and aldenshoe.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN ISIDRO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (89%); ICE CREAM (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



243 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: A Mutual Aid Society for Young Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By MARK COHEN

 BODY:
Before he started Summit Series, an informal society of some 200 of the world's top young entrepreneurs, Elliott Bisnow was just the head of a $2 million-a-year start-up facing a common challenge for a 22-year-old chief executive. 
 Like many of his peers who were writing ground-breaking software code in high school or orchestrating financing rounds from campus entrepreneur clubs, he was well -versed in the ways of the digital economy. But that didn't mean he had any clue about how to choose the best health care plan for his 20 employees, or whether to pay his sales people salaries or put them on straight commission, or how to dress so that clients and staff members didn't dismiss him as a child.
 ''I just had all these questions,'' recalled Mr. Bisnow, now 23, the co-founder and chief operating officer of Bisnow, a Washington-based publisher of e-newsletters. 
 Mr. Bisnow dropped out of the University of Wisconsin in 2007 to run the company with his father, Mark Bisnow, a longtime radio host and political insider (he was communications director for John Anderson's 1980 presidential bid), who is chief executive. ''My dad was very helpful, but he'd never had his own business before either,'' he said. ''And I couldn't really talk to my friends about this.''
 So Elliott Bisnow did what any self-respecting, hyper-ambitious entrepreneur two years removed from his last spring break might do: he organized a group ski trip to the Alta Ski Area in Utah, and he drew up a list of some of the better-known entrepreneurs of his generation, people like Ricky Van Veen, 28, and Josh Abramson, 27, founders of CollegeHumor.com; Joel Holland, the 24-year-old chief executive of Footage Firm, a royalty-free stock-footage house on pace to generate upward of $10 million in sales this year; and Ryan Allis, the 24-year-old founder of direct bulk e-mail service iContact, which claims $30 million in annual revenue.
 ''Instead of calling them and trying to get a meeting,'' Mr. Bisnow said, ''I decided to convince them all to come to Utah with me. I told them, 'I will fly you for free and pay for the trip if you come.' '' Needless to say, he did not have the money to do that. But that's what credit cards are for (or at least used to be).
 From that somewhat dubious proposition Summit Series was born. The members now include Evan Williams, chief executive of Twitter; Dustin Moskovitz, a co-founder of Facebook; Tony Hsieh, chief executive of Zappos; Ivanka Trump, vice president for real estate and acquisitions in the Trump Organization; and the heads of a lot of other companies started in dorm rooms over the last several years. The group meets every four to six months at the urging of Mr. Bisnow to compare notes, raise money for charitable causes, work on big problems facing the world and hang out.
 It can all sound like a middle-age conspiracy theorist's worst nightmare. Earlier this year, 35 Summit Series members met for a day of private briefings with senior White House staff members to talk about entrepreneurship and the economy. On July 20, another three dozen Summiteers will convene at the private residence of the entertainment mogul Russell Simmons in Manhattan's Financial District (with the celebrity chef Tom Colicchio doing the cooking) to brainstorm with former President Bill Clinton and raise money for the Clinton Foundation.
 On a recent gray, muggy afternoon, Mr. Bisnow and two other Summit Series organizers -- Brett Leve, 25, and Jeff Rosenthal, 24 -- were sitting around a long wooden table at the TriBeCa co-op they have sublet in Manhattan for the summer. As they talked about plans for the coming Clinton meeting, another of their colleagues groggily shuffled from one of the three bedrooms in a pair of shorts and a T-shirt. Six guys are staying at the apartment, crashing in children's bunk beds and on extra mattresses on the floor. 
 ''We decided we each had $1,500 a month to spend on rent and for that either we could each have a bedroom and stay in Hoboken or be right in the middle of everything in TriBeCa,'' Mr. Bisnow explained.
 There is no blueprint for what Mr. Bisnow and his associates are doing. Perhaps the closest analogy is Davos, if the yearly forum held in Switzerland for billionaires and heads of state were somehow crossed with MTV's ''The Real World.'' Most attendees seem to derive at least as much benefit from the gatherings as Mr. Bisnow.
 ''So often, as a young C.E.O., you feel like an island,'' said Ari Goldberg, 27, a former vice president of LRMR, the brand-management company owned by the basketball player LeBron James, and the recent founder of a fashion social-networking site called StyleCaster. ''Then you get to Summit and you look around the room and you see all these other islands. Suddenly instead of being alone it's like you're part of the Bahamas or something.'' 
 Summit Series has evolved. Attendees now arrange for their own transportation and pay $2,500 apiece for room and board. Sponsorships from the likes of Staples, Goldman Sachs and the real estate services firm Jones Lang LaSalle cover the rest and subsidize all or part of the organizers' salaries. With the next multiday event, planned for Miami in early November, the organization should be ''well into the black,'' Mr. Bisnow said. 
 Still, Mr. Bisnow said that his first priority remains his e-newsletter company. The lively electronic sheets of industry happenings and gossip (there is one for the Washington real estate scene, one for lawyers, another for government tech workers and so forth) show up in 100,000 inboxes several times a week. The company is projecting revenue for 2009 between $2 million and $3 million.
 After getting to know his fellow young entrepreneurs in Summit Series, Mr. Bisnow moved the company's offices from stuffy sublet space in a downtown Washington law firm to a former storefront on Dupont Circle -- and he stopped wearing suits.
 Where things go from here is less clear. Mr. Bisnow says he plans to continue splitting his time between the ventures. In particular, he emphasized the importance of Summit Series' philanthropic mandate. At a meeting in Aspen earlier this year, a seat at the United Nations board dinner with Ted Turner, Kofi Annan and Queen Rania of Jordan was auctioned off, raising $150,000 to benefit the Nothing but Nets campaign to fight malaria in Africa.
 Clearly, if one event propelled the organization into the sphere in which Mr. Bisnow hopes to operate, it was the White House meeting. Several Summit members have since opened up direct lines of communications with high-ranking White House economic, environmental and digital policy advisers. There has been talk of follow-up sessions later in the year. Interestingly, though, the event might not have happened if Mr. Bisnow hadn't listened to his mother. 
 Late last February, Margot and Mark Bisnow were at an Oscars party in Washington when Ms. Bisnow spied Yosi Sergant, then of the White House Office of Public Engagement. ''I wasn't even going to go,'' Elliott Bisnow recalled. ''I'd been playing tennis and I was tired, but my mother called and said, 'Elliott, you really need to get over here.' '' 
 The next week, Mr. Bisnow, Mr. Leve and Mr. Rosenthal were working late on a Friday evening on logistics for the Aspen meeting when Mr. Bisnow's phone flashed with Mr. Sergant's number. Not only had the administration green-lighted hosting a Summit Series event, Mr. Sergant had already locked them in for the following Friday.
 ''I looked at Elliott -- our jaws dropped,'' Mr. Leve recalled. ''Yosi is saying, 'We're taking a shot on you guys. Wereally need you to bring the heat here.... And we need all 35 names and Social Security numbers by end of business Tuesday.' Mind you, this was after hours on Friday. Elliott expressed a little concern about whether we could make the turnaround, and Yosi said, 'Listen, Elliott, when the president's office calls, you answer.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); SALES FORCE (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%); SKIING (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (66%); SKIING FACILITIES (63%); STOCK FOOTAGE LIBRARIES (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: TONY HSIEH (56%); R JOHN ANDERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



244 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Of the Moment, And Thinking Ahead

BYLINE: By CINTRA WILSON

 BODY:
ONCE or twice a decade, it will befall a young lady of supreme good looks to accidentally embody her moment in time. She becomes the visual articulation of our culture's unspoken hopes and latent desires: a now-ness that contains the hint of a tantalizing future -- to wit: we don't know what's next, but whatever it is, it looks like her. 
 Back in 1999, young Laura Hollins, a punk rock, fish-and-chips waitress from Greater Manchester, England, won the Face of Rossendale modeling contest. With advice from a friend of her Reiki master mum, Ms. Hollins changed her name to the more numerologically fortuitous Agyness Deyn, and her star dramatically rose. In 2007, Ms. Deyn was named on the cover of Vogue as one of the world's next supermodels, and she starred in campaigns for, among others, Armani, Mulberry, Reebok, Hugo Boss and Burberry. 
 Off the runway, much ado was made of her personal fashion sense -- a cuted-up variation on the old New Wave with little hats, suspenders and neon accessories, and Web sites were dedicated to the fetishization of what Anna Wintour referred to as her ''uncompromising hair'' -- the platinum-bleached crop-top emulated by fans around the world. Even if Ms. Deyn's income did not make the Forbes Top 15 for supermodel earnings, she was increasingly visible as a tastemaker. In 2008, Glamour magazine named her among seven people ''Who Will Change Your Style.'' 
 Now, in what seems like a mere handful of seconds after her official supermodeldom was announced, the Internet is abloom with rumors that Ms. Deyn, 26, may abandon the modeling business for greener pastures. 
 I am sitting at Veselka, a cafe near her apartment in the East Village, preparing to ask about these things, when I espy Ms. Deyn through the window stomping down Ninth Street in Converse high-tops (covered in metal studs). Her white hair is a rash of bed-head cowlicks, her jeans peg-legged, her oversize white T-shirt features an album cover for the band Elastica. In short, she is the apotheosis of a feral tween, circa 1983. 
 She shakes my hand with childlike warmth and enthusiasm, placing a pack of Parliaments on the table. Her eyes are the electric blue of snow cones or backlit cough drops; she periodically remembers to open them wider and irradiate me with her inner being.
 Our meeting had to be scheduled around a movie she has been shooting in Europe. While Ms. Deyn speaks eagerly about ''brunching out'' (''branching out,'' actually, but in a thick Manchester accent) beyond modeling, ''into stuff that really pushes the boundaries, raises the bar ... like, puts you out of your comfort zone,'' she refuses to answer any questions about her music or film projects. (Speculation on StyleList.com suggests that she might have a starring role in ''Doctor Who,'' a BBC Christmas special.) 
 She comes off as genuinely sweet, sunny and slightly dim, her punkette look the thinnest candy coating over an interior filled primarily with airy, whipped pink goo and nuvo-hippie, gestalt-y wow-ness. But this dimness, I suspect, is strategic. I've seen this before; actresses sometimes evade answering questions by obfuscating them in colorful fogs of positive nonsense. It is understandable: actual information limits the ability to be all things to all people, so vagaries protect the brand. But they also result in puzzling answers to relatively simple questions.
 I asked Ms. Deyn if she had a collaborative creative process with designers and photographers with whom she works closely.
 ''I don't know,'' she replied. ''I just like to experience different feelings, even if it's, like, uncomfortable?''
 I asked if there was a model she particularly admired when she was a young up-and-comer.
 ''I liked guys quite a lot -- like the Clash, you know, punky guys. Siouxsie and the Banshees, X-Ray Spex.'' 
 I started to look over her shoulder for a six-foot rabbit but opted instead to ask if she would name three people who best encapsulate her personal style, right now.
 ''I'd say myself.''
 ''Surely you have more influences than just you,'' I countered, warmly.
 ''No, but I take little bits from loads of different people,'' she replied, sweetly.
 Culturally, ''she was right for the time,'' her agent, Louie Chaban of Women Management, had told me. Models with an androgynous look often arise at times when culture is loosening its corset after a socially conservative era. During times of war, cultural trends tend to resurrect traditional gender roles, and obviously ''sexy'' females emerge in fashion and media imagery -- e.g., breast enhancements and hair extensions. 
 When war fever cools, hot new looks become less sex cue-dependant, and ''unconventional'' models -- Twiggy, Erin O'Connor, Kristen McMenamy, Eve Salvail (Jean Paul Gaultier's skinhead muse) -- are free to rise. Ms. Deyn's look captures a collective desire to return to the ''Girls Just Want to Have Fun,'' pogo-punk unisex spirit of the irreverent and permissive early 1980s, when girls could wear combat boots and boys could wear eyeliner, and everyone could wear magenta.
 The British news media has a whiplashy relationship with Ms. Deyn, simultaneously crushed-out and abusive. A panel on the BBC voted her ''The Most Annoying Person of 2008.'' This seems to have been due, in part, to a harsh reaction by the British music press to her singing debut with the Five O'Clock Heroes. Ms. Deyn has been known to fool around with music -- she DJ's, plays guitar and had a band called Lucky Knitwear a few years ago. Her voice is perfectly credible in an unserious Bananarama way; the single was as fruity and edgeless as a gumball. 
 Larger objections, I guessed, were because of excessive cuteness: Ms. Deyn's video persona is pouty-sweet and unthreatening -- Hello Kitty in a leather jacket. She seems to be marketing herself to kids in Japan, where her campaign for the Japanese fashion company Uniqlo was recently introduced, as virtual human anime for those 12-and-under. Perhaps this is savvy: to market a new product to Japan, you start by creating a taste for it in children.
 Ms. Deyn opens up a bit when talking about people with substantial roles in her career: her ''best mate,'' Mr. Chaban (''who totally believed in me from the beginning. I love him to bits.''); and the photographer Steven Meisel, who shot her first cover for Italian Vogue in 2006.
 ''Steven basically started my career,'' she said. ''I always say it was like going to the Steven Meisel school of modeling, 'cause I was, like, dead tomboy. Working with him made me be so much more body-aware and mind-aware and creatively aware.'' 
 The appreciation is mutual. ''She's professional, inspiring and a creative person with tons of style,'' Mr. Meisel offered in a statement. ''She's a fun person to spend your day with.'' 
 You would think a gal poised to be the next Kate Moss, as numerous media outlets have announced, would be driven to achieve this prize -- i.e., to evolve, career-wise, into a hugely influential tastemaker with a choke-chain on the fashion world, whose appearance in a particular shoe can cause it to sell out worldwide in the space of minutes. But unlike Ms. Moss, who seems to enjoy exercising her power and business acumen, Ms. Deyn seems ambivalent about the prospect of being such a market force.
 ''You know, even though I'm in fashion, I don't, like, do fashion,'' she said. ''Fashion isn't me, even though I work in it. It's just materialistic stuff. I just want to do whatever makes me happy.'' 
 What makes Ms. Deyn happy? 
 ''Like being totally conscious. Laughing is, like, my favorite thing to do. Being with friends, having fun ... being a bit daft.''
 It is hard to say if she eschews her supermodel role because she doesn't have the id or will to assert it or because she doesn't fully understand her own potential. But this, again, may be part of the construct of Ms. Deyn's media persona: she projects a cultivated lack of savvy, as if she were acting from a Buddhist compulsion to consciously guard herself from arriving at too intimate an understanding of such worldly filth. 
 Does she intend to spontaneously skip any Fashion Weeks, as she did last fall? 
 ''I don't know,'' she said, airily. ''I kind of make the decision a week before. I love doing it, but then sometimes I'm doing another project or something.''
 Fashion labels and beauty companies, too, have been thrown into a tizzy by the economic crisis, and major advertisers cling increasingly to the familiar faces of movie and rock stars (read: pre-established celebrity human brands elected to personify product brands). For a model it is no longer enough to be a pretty face. To compete with celebrity brands, today's supermodel must, as Ms. Deyn says, ''brunch out.'' 
 Mr. Chaban swatted away rumors that Ms. Deyn was planning to retire from modeling. ''She's focusing more on an acting career,'' he said. ''But she loves what she does. She has no plans to stop.''
 Whatever hyphenates (model-singer-actress) she ultimately chooses, cameras are sure to be fascinated by her for years to come. When it comes to generating lovability, Agyness Deyn is a machine.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about the model Agyness Deyn referred incorrectly to a BBC show that may feature her as a star. It is an episode of the series ''Doctor Who''; it is not a one-time Christmas special by that name.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW WAVE'S SECOND WAVE: The model Agyness Deyn has been known to sing, but will she act? (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE FORREST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
SUPERGIRL: Agyness Deyn, from top, on the cover of i-D magazine in May 2008
Vogue, November 2006
and Pop, September 2008 and February 2007.
 BOY/GIRL: Agyness Deyn in the November 2006 Italian Vogue. She credits the photographer, Steven Meisel, with starting her career. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE AND LEFT BY STEVEN MEISEL/ART+COMMERCE) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POP & ROCK (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (72%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (57%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (57%) ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (57%); EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



245 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: An Acrobatic Approach to a Ruminative Tale of Love

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The struggling New York City Opera should take heart from its ''people's opera'' counterpart in London, the English National Opera. Not so long ago the English National was similarly mired in an artistic, administrative and financial crisis. But under the leadership of John Berry, as artistic director, and Edward Gardner, as music director, the company has rebounded. It now draws large audiences to innovative productions at its meticulously restored home here, the old Coliseum Theater, originally a variety hall.
 New York operagoers have seen some boldly theatrical English National Opera productions in recent seasons, including Anthony Minghella's cinematic staging of ''Madama Butterfly,'' which Peter Gelb presented at the Metropolitan Opera to begin his tenure as general manager, and Phelim McDermott's staging of Philip Glass's ''Satyagraha,'' a co-production with the Met. 
 Now the English National is presenting a new production of Kaija Saariaho's first opera, ''Love From Afar'' (''L'Amour de Loin''), a tale of idealized love between a medieval French troubadour and a countess from Tripoli, who are loath to spoil their fantasy by actually meeting. This visionary, ruminative and unconventional work had its premiere at the Salzburg Festival in 2000 in a production by Peter Sellars that seemed ideal. 
 The staging here, seen on Tuesday evening in the second of four performances, could not be more different. In keeping with the English National Opera's populist mission, the French libretto, by the Lebanese-born novelist and essayist Amin Maalouf, is performed in English translation. It seemed clear on Tuesday that experiencing the opera in English enhanced its immediacy for the audience. People sat with rapt attention throughout this long, slow and dramatically static work. 
 But the production, by the new-wave circus director Daniele Finzi Pasca, is a curious mix of mystical imagery and acrobatics. Mr. Finzi Pasca, this staging's director, choreographer and lighting designer, was an out-of-the-box choice for this ruminative and philosophical work. Still, the cast is strong and Mr. Gardner, an immensely gifted young conductor, draws a shimmering account of Ms. Saariaho's mostly subdued, harmonically elusive score from the orchestra and chorus. It is heartening to see a challenging modernist opera embraced by a company with a populist identity.
 The allegorical story, set in the 12th century, is loosely based on history. In Aquitaine, Jaufre Rudel, the prince of Blaye and a troubadour poet, has grown sick at heart with his life of riches and sensual pleasures. From a pilgrim he learns of Clemence, the countess of Tripoli, renowned for her beauty and elegance. Jaufre falls in love with the fantasy of a relationship with this paragon, and begins composing odes to her. The pilgrim is sent on a fact-finding mission to speak with the countess in Tripoli.
 Today, as religious and cultural conflicts rage over the sanctity of borders, ''Love From Afar'' offers a timely parable of distancing mingled with fascination between East and West, Christian and Arab. But ambiguity permeates the opera. The countess, we find out, was born in Toulouse and lived there until the age of 5. Though now Eastern in habit and position, she idealizes her distant French past.
 There are just three solo characters and not much action. Only occasionally does the music turn vehement, as when the troubadour discovers that the countess has heard his odes inexactly rendered by the pilgrim. The prideful artist in him explodes, to slashing outbursts in the orchestra.
 Mr. Finzi Pasca, in what he describes in a program note as an effort to show the distance between the lovers ''by superimposing temporal planes,'' has, in his word, ''trebled'' the characters. The prince, the countess and the pilgrim each have two silent, acrobatic look-alike spirits, who follow, mimic and interact with the singing characters, often flying above, dangling from ropes. 
 The staging uses extras who ripple enormous sheets, wave banners and tumble. Elaborate video images depict the sea. Though often striking and fluidly rendered, the production is so busy and restless, you would think that the director had no confidence in the work.
 Ms. Saariaho has said she was initially reluctant to write an opera because she thought she lacked a gift for sweeping dramatic narrative. But this story was ideal for a composer who could create intrinsic interest through the building up of textures and intricate details. The harmonic language is pierced with dissonance yet grounded and alluring. Elegiac melodic lines evolve from sustained orchestral music flecked with electronic elements and gentle percussion. 
 The baritone Roderick Williams brought crisp diction, an attractive timbre and elegance to his singing as Jaufre. The bright-voiced soprano Joan Rodgers conveyed both the womanly pride and the romantic anxiety of the restless countess. Faith Sherman, a dark-hued mezzo-soprano, was a wise and wily pilgrim. 
 Richard Stokes has done a masterly job of translating the French libretto into singable English. The Coliseum seats nearly 2,400, and the production is selling well. More than 8,000 people, Mr. Berry estimates, will see the work before the run ends, an impressive achievement for a company that once seemed close to collapse.
 The final performances of ''Love From Afar'' at the English National Opera in London are on Thursday and Saturday nights; eno.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joan Rodgers, center, in a scene from Daniele Finzi Pasca's production of Kaija Saariaho's ''Love From Afar.''(pg. C1)
 ''Love From Afar'': Faith Sherman and Roderick Williams.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHAN PERSSON)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); WRITERS (86%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); THEATER (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); MUSIC (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (56%)

TITLE: Love From Afar (Opera); Love From Afar (Opera)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



246 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER PYLONES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: On the Corner of Cute, Between Stupid and Clever

BYLINE: By MIKE ALBO

 BODY:
BETH, a friend of mine with a brilliantly dry wit, has a basic rule for home decor. There shall be no unnecessary cuteness -- no smiley-face mugs, no monkey banana holders, no squiggly shaped mirrors -- or, as she brilliantly puts it: ''No whimsy in the kitchen!''
 If Beth were to walk into Pylones, she would hiss, recoil and then burst into flames like a vampire in daylight. The whimsy factor here is off the hook. The walls are acid green, dance music bounces out of speakers, and every imaginable accessory, gadget and minor home-decorating element has been turned into an animal, insect or happy-faced human, all rendered in a Skittles-bright rainbow of artificial color. 
 If you were to secretly dose the celebrated Japanese artist Takashi Murakami with LSD, spin him around in a swivel chair, bounce him on a trampoline, then repeatedly hit him over the head with a pinata, the interior of this store would be his hallucination. 
 The kitchen gadgets are displayed near the entrance. Here is an Eiffel Tower grater, $25; a whisk in the shape of a jellyfish, $25; a salad serving set with handles shaped like bathing beauties, $39; an elephant funnel, $13; as well as the kitchen whimsy classic: a smiling woman whose skirt is a conical cheese grater, $31.
 The rest of the store, organized into designated areas for desk accessories, children's toys, grooming, bags and so forth, is equally well-stocked with eye-popping gewgaws. The key chain selection alone exhausts all possibilities of form: traffic cones, fish, dancers, ladybugs, calculators ($3.50 to $11), just to name a few.
 Over in desk accessories there are bird scissors, $36; a crocodile staple remover, $6.50; a frog tape holder, $12.50. With one sweep, your home office can become the San Diego Zoo. 
 Among the anthropomorphic objects and critter tools, I found some inventive designs. A knee mug, with a curve-shaped bottom, is made to rest on your lap, $16; and a selection of ''reputation bags'' -- shoulder bags made of nylon in different colors -- were emblazoned with cheeky names (Flea Bag, Wind Bag, Sick Bag).
 Browsing here can feel overwhelming. As you walk around the store, you may get that queasy feeling of remorse about our overproductive consumer culture. (Annie Leonard, the environmental activist and creator of the popular 20-minute Web documentary, ''The Story of Stuff,'' would burst into flames here, too.) 
 I can envision a lot of this gunk showing up in one of those insanely cluttered homes on my favorite reality makeover show, ''Clean House,'' and the host, Niecy Nash, would throw out much of the merchandise without a second thought. 
 For example, a funny face with ''hair'' of purple velvet accordion folds, $25, is designed to hold CDs, but it is really just an overly ecstatic dust gatherer, soon to be left on someone's entertainment console, fanned with Hootie and the Blowfish CDs, forgotten. The now-common desktop Zen Stone Garden, $25, the little sandbox with a rake and stones, is about as spiritual as a S'more.
 Pylones is pronounced pee-lone and was founded in France in 1985 by Alan Ceppos and Frederic Rambaud. The five Pylones shops in the United States are all in New York City. (The first opened on the Upper East Side in 2003), but there are locations throughout Europe, Asia, South America (in Brazil) and New Zealand. Like Lush, the ubiquitous soap-presented-as-food franchise, Pylones is pretty much recession-proof. No matter the state of the economy, everyone needs an easy gift for a cousin or co-worker.
 I was lucky to be here. I was leaving to see my niece and nephews the next day, and I needed cheap Wacky Uncle Mike gifts, pronto. I found them: a book of stickers of vegetables, $6.95, and a ruler in the shape of a snake, $5, for Ben (age 3); a subway map bag, $38, for Quinn (age 14); and a Bag of Tricks, $15, for River (age 12). 
 I also found a surprisingly sleek-looking magnetized thermometer, $15, for my stylish mom because she is as obsessed with the temperature as an amateur meteorologist, as well as a reference book, ''The Order of Things: Hierarchies, Structures, and Pecking Orders,'' for me because I am obsessed with popularity as if I were still in high school.
 Several selections in the small book section were devoted to toilet humor. But it somehow makes sense that the same place that insists on making your cheese grater look like a woman is where you can find coprophilic publications like ''Poo Log: A Record Keeper.'' 
 Over all, this is a cheap-gift-getting paradise, and unless you are completely antisocial or Ruth Madoff, you have at least a couple of dozen obligatory offerings to friends and colleagues you must give throughout the year. A brisk tour through a Pylones shop is all you really need to find some little gesture without having to give it too much valuable brainpower. 
 But if you come here for yourself, remember Beth's advice. One or two of these things in the home is fine, but any more than that and you will start living like one of the Doodlebops. (Don't know them? Watch them on YouTube, and you will want to punch something.) Maybe I am not the most cheery person, but I don't care how optimistic and happy you are: an adult's home should not look like the set of a children's show. 
 PYLONES
 69 Spring Street (between Crosby and Lafayette Streets), (212) 431-3244.
 ODDS AND ENDS A store filled to the gills with color-saturated cutesy gadgets and knickknacks. 
 Depending on your temperament, walking through here will either cheer you up or drive you crazy. 
 THIS AND THAT The merchandise is mind-bogglingly multifarious, but the friendly youth 
 working here are very helpful and can guide you through it all.
 HERE AND THERE With five Pylones in Manhattan -- check pylones-usa.com for locations -- busy, socially obligated New Yorkers can rush in frantically for last-minute gifts. (Gift-wrapping costs $1.) 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Critical Shopper column last Thursday, about Pylones, misidentified the founders of the company. They are Jacques Guillemet and Lena Guillemet, not Alan Ceppos and Frederic Rambaud, who own the five Pylones stores in the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); DANCERS (75%); FOOD COLORINGS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); ANIMALS (74%); MAMMALS (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (74%); FIRES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LSD (70%); MUSIC (55%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



247 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian President Appears to Have Won Re-election

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia 

 BODY:
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono seemed headed for a sweeping victory on Wednesday, earning a second five-year term and a strong mandate to step up reforms, according to early and unofficial results. 
 According to several polling agencies, Mr. Yudhoyono was certain to avoid a runoff by capturing a clear majority against his two rivals, earning nearly 60 percent of the popular vote. The estimates, called quick counts here, were in keeping with pre-election opinion polls conducted by the agencies. 
 Official results are expected to be released later this month. 
 Mr. Yudhoyono, 59, a retired general, would become the first Indonesian president ever re-elected, in what was only the second time that Indonesians had directly chosen their president. More than 100 million people cast ballots across Indonesia, which emerged from three decades of military rule barely 10 years ago. 
 For the United States, which is seeking to re-engage with the Muslim world, Indonesia increasingly presents tantalizing possibilities: a democracy that is the world's most populous Muslim nation, where more people are continuing to turn to Islam in their private lives even as they reject political Islam in favor of secular democracy.
 At a news conference on Wednesday evening that amounted to a victory speech, Mr. Yudhoyono pledged to strengthen the rule of law, focus on economic development and alleviate poverty. 
 ''I am optimistic that in the next five years we will be doing many things for a better future,'' he said.
 As a result of his likely first-round win, as well as his Democratic Party's victory in April's parliamentary elections, Mr. Yudhoyono appears to enjoy the political capital to appoint reform-minded politicians or technocrats to his cabinet. In his first term, his party had only 7 percent of the seats in Parliament. 
 According to initial counts, Megawati Sukarnoputri, 62, a former president, came in second, with 20 to 25 percent of the vote. Jusuf Kalla, 67, the current vice president, had about 15 percent. 
 In an interview with a local television station, Mr. Kalla said he would wait for the official results but added, ''Based on the quick count result, I congratulate S.B.Y.,'' referring to Mr. Yudhoyono by his initials.
 Mrs. Megawati, however, seemed to reject the results, saying in a televised interview that the election was ''pseudo-democracy.'' 
 At polling stations here in Jakarta, voters across social and economic lines voiced strong support for Mr. Yudhoyono.
 ''Economically, there's a lot of stability in Indonesia now because of his policies, and we haven't been affected by the global crisis,'' said Sevianto Nismara, 46, a banker, after voting with his wife and two children in a neighborhood of stately homes. ''He's also been very strong against corruption.''
 Mr. Yudhoyono rose to prominence during the era of military rule under the late President Suharto, which lasted for 32 years, until 1998, but he has come to be viewed as the leader most capable of extricating Indonesia from that past. He reinforced that image by picking as his new vice-presidential running mate Boediono, 66, a widely respected former central bank governor who has no political affiliation but has a reputation for competence and ethics. (Like many Indonesians, he goes by only one name.)
 By contrast, Mrs. Megawati and Mr. Kalla picked as their running mates retired generals who profited from their direct ties to Suharto and were implicated in human rights violations in the 1990s. 
 Mr. Kalla, a businessman who grew wealthy during the Suharto era, found himself in the difficult position of running against his own boss. As the vice president in the current coalition government, he tried to take credit for the administration's popular policies. But Mr. Kalla and his party, Golkar, which was Suharto's political organization, were widely viewed as creating obstacles to Mr. Yudhoyono's reforms.
 Mr. Kalla and his running mate also appealed to conservative Muslims by prominently displaying their wives, who both wear head scarves, unlike other candidates' wives. But the tactic found little support among mainstream voters, who, in April's parliamentary elections, overwhelmingly favored secular political parties over Islamic ones.
 Mrs. Megawati's alliance with Prabowo, 58, who was once married to one of Suharto's daughters and has amassed a declared fortune of $160 million, was regarded in the news media here as particularly cynical. Mrs. Megawati owes her political career to being the daughter of Sukarno, the revered first president of independent Indonesia, who was ousted from power by Suharto. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Election officials dressed as puppet theater characters guarded the ballot box on Wednesday at a polling station in Solo, Indonesia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRY PRASETYO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CHILDREN (70%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



248 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Cities Lose Out On Road Funds From Stimulus

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and GRIFF PALMER

 BODY:
Two-thirds of the country lives in large metropolitan areas, home to the nation's worst traffic jams and some of its oldest roads and bridges. But cities and their surrounding regions are getting far less than two-thirds of federal transportation stimulus money.
 According to an analysis by The New York Times of 5,274 transportation projects approved so far -- the most complete look yet at how states plan to spend their stimulus money -- the 100 largest metropolitan areas are getting less than half the money from the biggest pot of transportation stimulus money. In many cases, they have lost a tug of war with state lawmakers that urban advocates say could hurt the nation's economic engines.
 The stimulus law provided $26.6 billion for highways, bridges and other transportation projects, but left the decision on how to spend most of it to the states, which have a long history of giving short shrift to major metropolitan areas when it comes to dividing federal transportation money. Now that all 50 states have beat a June 30 deadline by winning approval for projects that will use more than half of that transportation money, worth $16.4 billion, it is clear that the stimulus program will continue that pattern of spending disproportionately on rural areas. 
 ''If we're trying to recover the nation's economy, we should be focusing where the economy is, which is in these large areas,'' said Robert Puentes, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution's Metropolitan Policy Program, which advocates more targeted spending. ''But states take this peanut-butter approach, taking the dollars and spreading them around very thinly, rather than taking the dollars and concentrating them where the most complex transportation problems are.''
 The 100 largest metropolitan areas also contribute three-quarters of the nation's economic activity, and one consequence of that is monumental traffic jams. A study of congestion in urban areas released Wednesday by the Texas Transportation Institute found that traffic jams in 2007 cost urban Americans 2.8 billion gallons of wasted gas and 4.2 billion hours of lost time.
 The Times analysis shows that a little more than half of the stimulus money will be spent on ''pavement improvement'' projects, mostly repaving rutted and potholed roads. Nearly one-tenth of it will be spent to fix or replace bridges. More than a quarter of the money will be spent to widen roads or build new roads or bridges. 
 But the projects also offered vivid evidence that metropolitan areas are losing the struggle for stimulus money. Seattle found itself shut out when lawmakers in the State of Washington divided the first pot of stimulus money. Missouri has directed nearly half its money to 89 small counties which, together, make up only a quarter of the state's population. The United States Conference of Mayors, which did its own analysis of different data last month, concluded that the nation's metropolitan areas were being ''shortchanged.'' 
 Pat McCrory, the mayor of Charlotte, N.C., said his city ''did pretty terrible'' when it came to getting money. Of the $423 million in projects approved so far in North Carolina, only $7.8 million is going to Mecklenburg County, the state's most populous county and the home of Charlotte. 
 Cleveland was initially promised $200 million of Ohio's stimulus money to help build a five-lane bridge to replace the 50-year-old Innerbelt Bridge, which is so deteriorated that officials banned heavy truck traffic on it last fall. But state officials, worried about meeting federal deadlines, took back $115 million in stimulus money and decided to use it on shovel-ready projects elsewhere. 
 The state promised to find another source of money for the bridge project, but now Ohio's largest stimulus project is the $150 million it is spending to build the Nelsonville Bypass in southeastern Ohio, which officials say will alleviate a bottleneck and improve transportation to Appalachia.
 Transportation experts said the stimulus was drawing attention to a longstanding trend. 
 ''We have a long history of shortchanging cities and metropolitan areas and allocating transportation money to places where few people live,'' said Owen D. Gutfreund, an assistant professor of urban planning at the City University of New York who wrote ''20th Century Sprawl: Highways and the Reshaping of the American Landscape'' (Oxford University Press, 2004). 
 Professor Gutfreund said that in some states the distribution was driven by statehouse politics, with money spread to the districts of as many lawmakers as possible, or given out as political favors. In others, he said, the money is distributed by formulas that favor rural areas or that give priority to state-owned roads, often found far outside of urban areas. 
 Mayors had lobbied Congress to send the money directly to cities, but in the end, 70 percent of the money was sent to the states to be divided, and 30 percent was sent to metropolitan planning organizations, which represent the local governments in many metropolitan areas. 
 Those organizations were not bound by the June 30 deadline for getting their projects approved, so metropolitan areas could eventually see their share of the transportation money go up. Other pots of money in the transportation bill stand to benefit metropolitan areas more, including the $8.4 billion for mass transit and the $1.5 billion that the federal Department of Transportation can award to projects of national or regional importance. 
 Some cities have been delayed in winning approval for their projects. New York City is expecting $261 million of the highway stimulus money. It had hoped to start work in May on its biggest project, a $175 million rehabilitation of the St. George Ferry Terminal in Staten Island, but the project has yet to win approval. 
 Transportation is currently a hot topic in Washington, where Congress plans to pass a new six-year transportation law within the next year and a half. Washington's difficulty in directing its transportation aid has led to calls for a national infrastructure bank, which would rank projects and help them get financed. 
 Obama administration officials, who have called for ending sprawl and making sure that federal transportation spending is cost-effective, say they are looking at how states are spending the money from the stimulus law, officially called the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, to learn about the strengths and weaknesses of the current system. 
 ''The transparency that comes with Recovery Act funds is letting us see what's happening in real time, and that's a good thing,'' said Roy Kienitz, an under secretary of transportation for policy. ''Understanding where recovery dollars go and why will help us determine how to shape long-term transportation policies with the goal of getting the most benefit for every dollar.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ohio took back $115 million in stimulus money toward replacing Cleveland's Innerbelt Bridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A19) CHART: TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS ACROSS THE NATION: The Department of Transportation has signed off on more than $16 billion worth of transportation stimulus projects chosen by states and localities. So far the nation's largest metropolitan areas have received a disproportionately small share of the money, compared with their economic output. (Sources: Federal Highway Administration
 Department of Commerce Note: Numbers are as of July 2.) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); APPROVALS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



249 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Divided, They Risk It All

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With their allies controlling the White House and Congress, the nation's labor unions should be making hay. Instead many unions are making war -- largely with one another -- in the biggest, nastiest surge of labor fratricide in decades. 
 With some union leaders condemning other leaders as dictators and Darth Vaders, business leaders are smiling. Every million spent by unions to bash one another depletes their coffers for battling corporate America and Republican political candidates. 
 ''The other side doesn't have to take any shots at us,'' said Amy B. Dean, a longtime union leader and an author of a new book on reinvigorating organized labor. ''We're killing ourselves.'' 
 Many union officials acknowledge that the infighting is undercutting two of labor's biggest objectives: having Congress enact pro-union legislation and organizing millions more workers to reverse labor's long decline. 
 ''They need a united front when they go to Congress to get pro-union legislation through,'' said Charles B. Craver, a labor law professor at George Washington University. ''If they miss that opportunity, it will be a very sad day for organized labor because they might not see an opportunity like that again for years.''
 For the most part, the battles don't involve grand philosophical differences, as many labor union disputes have in the past. Instead, they often reflect power struggles, with some unions jockeying to take others' members at a time when unions are having a hard time gaining members at companies that are not organized.
 The Service Employees International Union, union officials say, recently spent millions of dollars in California on organizers and a phone and mail campaign -- in one fight to discourage workers from joining a rival health care union, and in another to urge hotel workers to quit their union and join the service employees.
 ''All this helps us only because it has to be a distraction within union ranks,'' said Randel K. Johnson, senior vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''And that means they pay less attention to what's happening on Capitol Hill.''
 Despite the internal strife, some union presidents say labor is sticking together where it counts: pushing for universal health coverage, a robust stimulus plan, immigration reform and the card check legislation that would make unionizing easier.
 ''If you look at the big issues facing labor, I think there's a large amount of unity,'' said Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, which is involved in much of the infighting. 
 But labor's No. 1 legislative goal, the card check bill, remains stalled because unions have failed to muster the 60 Senate votes to overcome a filibuster. 
 Several moderate Democrats have voiced opposition because the bill would make it far easier for workers to join unions without an election. The bill would require employers to recognize a union as soon as a majority of workers signed cards saying they wanted one.
 ''When you go up to lobby on the Hill,'' said Gerald W. McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, ''some people there are asking, 'What are these unions fighting about, and if you can't get your own house in order, why are you asking us to go out on a limb and support card check?' '' 
 And on health care, unions fear that a provision they deplore -- taxing employer-provided health benefits -- will be enacted to help finance universal coverage.
 The feuding has taken many forms: intraunion, between unions and by several unions joining forces against another union. 
 For instance, five years after the nation's main apparel union merged with the hotel and restaurant employees' union, the combined union, Unite Here, erupted into a civil war. The apparel workers' president, Bruce S. Raynor, declared the merger a failure and asked for a divorce, saying ''we can't be held captive by a bunch of thugs.'' The merger was supposed to produce more organizing, but he complained that it was producing less, despite stepped-up spending on organizing.
 Opposing the divorce, the head of the hotel workers' side, John W. Wilhelm, insisted that the merger was a success and lambasted Mr. Raynor, asserting he wanted to undo the merger because he was a dictator who was losing a power struggle. 
 With Mr. Wilhelm blocking a split, more than 100,000 members of Unite Here broke away and merged into the Service Employees International Union. Soon the service employees were spending millions to persuade members of Unite Here to quit and join them. And soon after that, Mr. Wilhelm was accusing the service employees of a heinous labor sin, raiding another union to steal members. 
 ''The S.E.I.U. is trying to hijack our union,'' Mr. Wilhelm said. At the Unite Here convention last week, Mr. McEntee denounced the service employees for ''piracy,'' and Vincent J. Giblin, president of the operating engineers, called Mr. Stern, of the service union, the ''Darth Vader of the labor movement.'' 
 Anger has been running high against Mr. Stern since 2005, when he precipitated a schism and half a dozen unions quit the A.F.L.-C.I.O., accusing it of being stodgy and ineffectual. Those unions created the rival Change to Win federation, but nowadays that group is largely paralyzed because several of its member unions are raiding and denouncing one another.
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has internal tensions of its own. R. Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the machinists' union, recently issued a report that accused that federation of undisciplined spending and creative accounting. In 2000, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s net assets were $45 million, but last year, its liabilities exceeded its assets by $2.3 million. 
 Late last year, several union presidents began a delicate effort to reunify the movement. But that effort has nearly ground to a halt, its momentum slowed by the intralabor nastiness, anger at Mr. Stern and other factors. 
 ''Every division in the labor movement seems to have Andy Stern's fingerprints on it,'' said Leo W. Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers. ''Andy ought to start working for unity and not division.''
 Mr. Stern is also engaged in an all-out battle with Sal Rosselli, the former president of a union local representing 140,000 health care workers in Northern California. After Mr. Stern ousted him and other leaders, accusing them of financial misconduct and defying the parent union, they founded a rival union. Denying any wrongdoing, they said they were expelled because they were fierce critics of Mr. Stern. 
 This spring, the service employees dispatched more than 500 allies to Fresno, Calif., at great expense, to help persuade 10,000 home care workers there not to join the rival union. By a narrow 233-vote margin, they agreed to remain in the service employees. Now come similar secession battles in San Francisco and Sacramento. 
 Mr. Stern denied being a divisive force. He said the nation's ''economic catastrophe'' was fueling the internal strife. ''That has created a lot of pressures and tensions on unions and union members,'' he said.
 Regarding Unite Here, he said that merger had failed. As for criticisms that his union was raiding Unite Here's jurisdiction, he said the service union was trying to win over members of the old apparel workers' union and did not expect to organize hotel and gambling workers as a general rule. Disputing Mr. Wilhelm, he argued that the service employees union was entitled to some jurisdiction in organizingfood-service workers.
 Eager to discuss labor's agreement on universal health coverage, economic stimulus and other issues before Congress, Mr. Stern said, ''in some ways, when you focus on the big problems, it's a more positive picture.'' 
 Not to everyone. ''It's painful to see this infighting,'' Ms. Dean said. ''Labor can't spend these kinds of resources -- and waste these kinds of resources -- that at the end of the day don't really advance the interests of working people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Service Employees International Union in 2007. It has recently spent millions of dollars fighting other unions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE KUYKENDAL/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Andrew L. Stern, president of the service union, blamed the recession for making the division within the movement worse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Sal Rosselli, former president of a union local in Northern California, says he was ousted because he had criticized Mr. Stern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES C. BEST JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (95%); LEGISLATION (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WRITERS (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); HOTEL STAFF (68%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (66%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



250 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Armstrong Dons His Cape for the Tour de France

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
For a day at least, Superman has returned and he's riding a bike across France. Lance Armstrong not only came an eyelash from snatching the yellow jersey in the Tour de France Tuesday, but he also lifted the entire sport over his head and reminded the world it exists. Yes, it is an early stage and Armstrong is 37 and cycling has been plagued with drug use, but for sheer star power, stubbornness and audacity, you have to hand it to Lance.
 As Rick Reilly writes on ESPN.com, Armstrong's comeback once seemed like a joke and now the joke is on us and perhaps his ''I was supposed to win'' teammate Alberto Contador. While the former racer Bobby Julich reminds us that the hard parts of the Tour are still ahead, Bonnie Ford writes that Armstrong is bending time to his will. All of this is making Jay Mariotti of Fanhouse.comgo searching for Versus on his television dial (hint: go higher). 
 Back stateside, baseball is crowding the sports news with its pre-All-Star Game rush, which includes getting fans to vote for the final player on each team, a race currently led by the Rangers second baseman Ian Kinsler in the American League and Giants third baseman Pablo Sandoval in the National League. Yahoo.com's Jeff Passan has 246 reasons to vote for Sandoval although if you want a truly stunning story involving the Giants, read Jeff Fletcher's tale on Fanhouse.com about pitcher Ryan Sadowski.
 In the less-than-heartwarming category, Manny Ramirez got his expected shower of boos at Citi Field, but the Mets were so woeful in an 8-0 loss to the Dodgers that they got the worst of the crowd's disdain, writes John Harper in The New York Daily News. Ramirez did get ejected in the fifth inning and did enough to remind us why he lives in a universe of one, as described by Fanhouse.com's Lisa Olson, and ignores everyone's rules but his own, said Wallace Matthews of Newsday.
 Elsewhere, Toronto is trying to trade ace Roy Halladay, an idea Gordon Edes of Yahoo.com said it probably should have had last year. And the Cubs' Ryan Dempster reminds us why people laugh at baseball players by breaking his toe celebrating a victory.
 There will be no celebrating at LP Field in Nashville, which will open Wednesday and Thursday for fans to pay tribute to the slain former Titans quarterback Steve McNair. The story of his homicide gains a few details each day, with his good friend Robert Gaddy saying Steve and Mechelle McNair had no plans to divorce. The police are still waiting for test results before classifying the case as a murder-suicide. The Baltimore Sun polled Hall of Fame voters on McNair and they said he would not make the cut.
 The N.H.L.'s free agency season has been interrupted by the retirements of two notable players: the beloved Joe Sakic in Colorado and the not-so-beloved Claude Lemieux, who tried a short comeback with San Jose last season at 43. Free agency is still shaking out, with a shaky list of possible winners and losers, according to Michael Farber of SI.com, although Toronto made a big splash with the signing of the Swedish goalie Jonas Gustavsson. The Flyers, meanwhile, have gambled big that defenseman Chris Pronger's nastiness survives the aging process, writes Bob Ford of The Philadelphia Inquirer.
 Women's sports might have gotten a boost from the Williams versus Williams final at Wimbledon, but Dave Zirin of The Nation writes that tennis's efforts to use sex appeal as a selling point succeeds only in selling sex, not tennis. The world of women's golf is less cheery, with the United States Open serving to highlight the L.P.G.A.'s woes.
 The recession might be bad for women's golf, but it might just be good for recreational marathoners, writes Reed Albergotti on WSJ.com, for whom being laid off has been a training boon.
 President Obama, meanwhile, is trying to boost Chicago's economy with his latest pitch for his city's Olympic bid, just after thanking the Russians for loaning the hockey star Alex Ovechkin to the fans in Washington.
 In his promotional efforts, even Obama could take a few tips from Armstrong.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); CYCLING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); MURDER (63%); HOMICIDE (60%); SUICIDE (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); TEXAS RANGERS (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (69%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



251 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Use of Taxpayer Money for Jackson Service Draws Criticism

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The talent has exited stage left and the tears have been dried, but the discord over the cost of the memorial service for Michael Jackson held in downtown Los Angeles on Tuesday appears to be escalating. 
 On Tuesday, the city attorney, Carmen Trutanich, took the highly unusual step of appearing during the public comment period of a City Council hearing to announce that his office was investigating how Los Angeles taxpayers came to foot a bill for police protection and other city functions at the service, at a time when the city and state are running out of money. 
 On Wednesday, the city controller, Wendy Greuel, sent a stern letter to the Los Angeles emergency management department demanding to know why it had spent $48,826 on sandwiches from a deli 80 miles from Los Angeles to feed police officers. (Sandwiches from Subway would have cost $17,491.25, she pointed out.) 
 ''Rest assured our office is investigating how this whole phenomenon occurred from the get-go,'' Mr. Trutanich said when addressing the council. 
 Two City Council members have also challenged the expenditure, and on Wednesday the radio airwaves, blogs and Twitter feeds crackled with criticism.
 ''I admit I shed a tear with Mariah, Queen and Paris,'' said Jody Greenblatt, a pharmaceutical executive who lives in Los Angeles. ''But I cry more at the thought of teachers' pink slips, forced furloughed days, unemployment rates sky high and a state bankrupt.''
 Sarah Hamilton, a spokeswoman for the city, said the final cost to the city of the memorial at the Staples Center was $1.4 million. 
 The unusual public outcry in the politically atomized Los Angeles underscores both the dire straits of the city -- with its $320 million budget gap and 11.4 percent unemployment rate -- and its difficulty in raising money from wealthy entertainment-industry leaders. 
 The fallout from the memorial could also prove to be an embarrassment for Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa, who was out of the country during the memorial and whose efforts to stave off costs and criticism amounted to a fund-raising request on his office's Web site . Ms. Hamilton said $17,000 in donations came in via the city's Web site, but it has suffered prolonged server crashes.
 Last month, the mayor scrambled to line up private donations to pay for a victory parade for the Los Angeles Lakers after a police union official criticized the city's plans to split the $2 million cost of the parade between the team and taxpayers. Among those who contributed were the usual cast of generous donors to Los Angeles events, like Eli Broad, Casey Wasserman and Jerry Perenchio.
 ''There is a good, strong culture of philanthropy in L.A.,'' said Rich Caruso, a Los Angeles developer who plays host to several public events each year. ''But it is a handful of people and usually always the same people.'' He added: ''I think it's an outrage that taxpayers paid for that memorial. The Jackson family should pay for it.''
 Two council members have also suggested that the Jackson family help defer costs. Jesse Derris, a spokesman for the Jackson family, said the family was unavailable for comment.
 The Anschutz Entertainment Group, the owner of Staples Center and the promoter of Mr. Jackson's planned concert series in London, donated the center for the event, but has also been a focus of requests for help to pay for its related costs. (Tickets were free and distributed via lottery.) Calls to the company were not returned.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mounted Los Angeles police officers outside the Michael Jackson memorial service at the Staples Center on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); PHILANTHROPY (62%); WEB SITES (60%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: CASEY WASSERMAN (57%); ELI BROAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



252 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: 13 Real Estate Professionals Are Indicted on Mortgage Fraud Charges

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
The Manhattan district attorney announced the indictment of 13 people on Wednesday in what he called a multimillion-dollar mortgage-fraud scheme that victimized lenders and low-income homeowners. 
 The 13, employed in nearly every profession in the real estate industry -- including lawyers, real estate agents, appraisers and bank workers -- were accused of participating in 19 sham real estate transactions. 
 Each of the defendants has been charged with a handful of larceny and fraud charges, the most serious of which, enterprise corruption, could result in 25-year sentences. 
 Prosecutors said the fraud occurred over a four-year period ending in April in Cypress Hills and East New York in Brooklyn, Washington Heights in Manhattan and in Westchester County and on Long Island.
 The criminal enterprise, which they said tricked lenders into issuing loans for homes whose values were artificially inflated and then had lawyers pocket some of the money, could ultimately show losses of more than $100 million, as the investigation is continuing, Mr. Morgenthau said. The 19 transactions that prosecutors called shams totaled $12 million.
 A financial system that encouraged the bundling of many overvalued home loans for sale as securities to unwitting investors, in a practice that has been blamed for kick-starting the current economic crisis, also played a role, he added.
 ''The banks had no occasion to be concerned or to check up because they were going to get rid of these mortgages,'' Mr. Morgenthau said. ''It was too easy for corrupt employees to falsify documents.''
 The lenders that took the heaviest losses, according to Wednesday's announcement, were New Century Mortgage, which probably lost more than $32 million and is no longer in business; Fremont General, which lost about $18 million; and Long Beach Mortgage Company, which has since been absorbed by Washington Mutual, and lost about $9 million.
 Among the people indicted on Wednesday were the three principals of the AFG Financial Group, a mortgage broker based in Garden City, on Long Island, who, according to the indictment, were the masterminds of a plan hatched at Manhattan strip clubs in 2004. 
 AFG, which had 20 employees, was founded expressly to defraud banks, Mr. Morgenthau said. ''If they had a legitimate side, it was by accident,'' he said. 
 Under the complex plan, which the indictment charged was devised by Aaron Hand, the company's president, and Eugene Culbreath and Eric Shields, the company would seek out homeowners in trouble with their mortgages, often by finding owners who had missed mortgage payments, and offer to take their homes off their hands.
 If the owners agreed, the defendants would recruit buyers with good credit histories who would apply for mortgages to buy the properties, according to the indictment. Simultaneously, the defendants would use falsified documents to inflate the home's value, to get the largest mortgage possible.
 Finally, at the closings the sellers' lawyers, who Mr. Morgenthau said were also in on the scheme, would essentially pocket the checks from the lenders. He said that the buyers, who were promised they could get out of the deal at some point, were stuck with mortgages they could not afford.
 The indictment did not accuse any of the buyers or sellers of wrongdoing.
 Mr. Hand pleaded not guilty on Wednesday afternoon before Judge Michael H. Melkonian in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He was released on $400,000 cash bail, according to Richard Wool, his lawyer, who said his client had no comment. 
 Seven other defendants pleaded not guilty on Wednesday, another was expected to appear in court on Thursday, and the other four are not yet in custody. Twelve other people have already pleaded guilty to their involvement in the crimes, Mr. Morgenthau said.
 Not only did AFG inflate the value of homes, according to the district attorney, but it also invented some. At one point during the press conference announcing the charges, Mr. Morgenthau held up a photo that was supposed to be of a two-family Bronx house valued at $500,000. It showed an empty, weedy lot.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aaron Hand was accused of devising a mortgage scheme.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); SENTENCING (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%); SIGNATURE GROUP HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



253 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Doubts About Obama's Economic Recovery Plan Rise Along With Unemployment

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At his inauguration in January, President Obama warned that times would get tougher before they got better. He has been proved correct.
 With unemployment already at 9.5 percent and likely to exceed 10 percent, much higher than White House officials predicted back in February, Mr. Obama has been facing attacks that his $787 billion stimulus program was either too timid or wrong-headed or both. Now, just five months after Congress agreed on the plan, with only a fraction of the money actually out the door, Washington is debating the need for a second round of stimulus amid economic and political crosscurrents.
 In Ohio, where unemployment is above 10 percent and where Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will visit on Thursday, Mr. Obama's popularity has dropped sharply. In a poll by Quinnipiac University earlier this week, 48 percent of respondents said they disapproved of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy, while 46 percent approved, down 11 percentage points since May. 
 ''People are soured on the system, and that's understandable,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. ''People want to see more money for water and sewers. They want to see more manufacturing growth. They want to see what we're going to do beyond that.''
 For the moment, Mr. Obama and his top economic advisers are fending off calls for more action, combining a message of hard-headed realism about the magnitude of the economy's problems with more cheerful predictions about an imminent boost as the government spending begins to hit the streets.
 ''The stimulus is on track,'' Lawrence H. Summers, director of the White House National Economic Council, said Wednesday in an interview. ''We planned for a program that would stimulate the economy over a two-year period, with a force that increases significantly over calendar year 2009. The implementation is on track to deliver that.''
 Administration officials say a job market recovery usually lags behind the economic recovery itself. Indeed, most forecasters had predicted that unemployment was likely to keep rising through the end of 2009 and would not start to edge down until 2010.
 ''People know that problems of this seriousness cannot be turned around in six months or nine months,'' Mr. Summers said. ''One of the president's strengths is his extraordinary candor. The president has been honest with the American people about the enormity of the challenge and the amount of time it will take to turn things around.''
 But political pressures may not give the administration two years to show that its plan is working, especially if Democrats in Congress begin to conclude that continued bad economic news is putting them at risk of losing seats in the 2010 midterm elections. 
 Mr. Obama has bought time by casting the struggling economy as the legacy of President George W. Bush, but as time passes it increasingly becomes his problem and his party's. 
 Administration officials had predicted that the stimulus program would save or create 600,000 jobs by summer. But the economy has lost more than two million jobs since Mr. Obama took office, and officials now estimate that the program has saved only about 150,000 jobs. 
 Republicans say that Mr. Obama's recovery plan is failing and proves that government spending is an inefficient way to help the economy. Some Democrats fret that the program may be either too small or too slow.
 Laura Tyson, a former economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, told an investor group in Singapore on Wednesday that the stimulus program was a ''bit too small'' and that the United States might need a second effort.
 A top House Democrat, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, told reporters on Tuesday that policy makers needed to be ''open'' to the possibility of a second program.
 Administration officials acknowledge that their initial forecasts, which anticipated that unemployment would peak at 8.5 percent, were too optimistic, although they were in line with Federal Reserve and most private forecasters. On Sunday, Mr. Biden acknowledged that officials had ''misread'' the economy. 
 The looming political battle is about how to respond, and three camps are forming. The first includes the White House and most Democratic leaders in Congress, who champion a wait-and-see approach until more of the stimulus money hits the streets.
 White House officials estimate that the government has committed $158 billion for spending around the country, but only about one-third of that has been spent. Temporary tax cuts have totaled about $43 billion thus far, according to White House estimates.
 A second camp, consisting of nervous Democrats and some economists, argues that the government must spur the economy with another round of spending, tax cuts or a mixture of both. 
 The third camp is led by Republicans, many of whom argue that the spending program was wrong from the start and that the government should focus on tax cuts.
 But Mr. Obama and Democratic lawmakers face difficult political and economic constraints if they try any kind of midcourse correction. 
 The budget deficit for 2009 will hit $1.7 trillion, according to the Congressional Budget Office. That equals 12 percent of the nation's gross domestic product and is far higher than any deficit under any president since World War II.
 Regardless of whether a second round of stimulus came from higher spending or lower taxes, the added kick to the economy would take months to arrive and would push the deficit even higher.
 One risk facing policy makers is that bond investors around the world, already jittery about the flood of new Treasury debt being issued, would become even more nervous about future inflation and demand higher interest rates. Higher rates would probably push up the cost of mortgages as well as business borrowing, offsetting any lift that came from an additional stimulus program. 
 But the other risk is that the economy sinks even more than expected right now, compounding the problems policy makers already have. Waiting too long could heighten that danger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); SHERROD BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



254 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Near Tents and Ruins, G-8 Summit Meeting Opens

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

DATELINE: L'AQUILA, Italy 

 BODY:
It had seemed an audacious choice: bringing the leaders of some of the world's most industrialized countries to a city ravaged by an earthquake just three months before. But as so often happens in Italy, a country that appears to handle last-minute emergencies better than long-term planning, the Group of 8 summit meeting opened here on Wednesday without any glaring hitches. 
 ''We're proud that we were able to pull off a miracle,'' Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said Wednesday evening at a news conference. 
 ''I thank everyone who agreed to move the venue here,'' Mr. Berlusconi said, adding that world leaders said they were ''happy'' to come to L'Aquila, ''the capital of grief.'' 
 It was a rush job. Two weeks after an April 6 earthquake killed nearly 300 people in this central Italian city, Mr. Berlusconi announced that he was moving the meeting here from La Maddalena, an island off the coast of Sardinia. In recent weeks, more than 1,000 workers labored round the clock to transform a school for the Italian Finance Police into a compound holding 1,500 international delegates and more than 3,000 journalists, complete with fresh grass and wicker lawn sets. 
 Yet Italy is still on the defensive. On the eve of the summit meeting, Mr. Berlusconi, who is fending off a sex scandal, gave a last-minute news conference, largely to dispel news reports that Italy had bungled the logistics and had ceded control of the gathering's agenda to the United States.
 Mr. Berlusconi said that the summit meeting was the product of international teamwork and that the Italian point people had worked ''elbow to elbow'' with their counterparts. He added that the proposed joint declarations had been ''negotiated and all shared by the other leaders.''
 On Wednesday, Mike Froman, a chief economic adviser to President Obama, told reporters in L'Aquila that he thought the Italians had done ''a terrific job preparing the summit,'' in terms of both facilities and agenda, which the Italians defined ''early on and worked methodically through.''
 Mr. Froman denied a report that top aides had an emergency conference call because of concerns before the gathering. 
 Beyond the heady agenda, which focuses on the economic crisis, climate change and Middle East politics, Italy hopes that holding the Group of 8 meeting in L'Aquila will help bring international attention and financing to the area, where the quake left 65,000 people homeless and flattened the economy. 
 Two months after the earthquake, tens of thousands of L'Aquila residents are still living in tents. On Wednesday, representatives of local citizens groups lugged gigantic letters to a hilltop that read, ''Yes we camp.'' 
 ''We wanted the leaders to see it,'' said Stefano Frezza of Epicentro Solidale, a citizens group based in L'Aquila. ''We wanted them to know that while they're sleeping comfortably, we're still in tents.'' 
 According to the official Group of 8 Web site, the delegations were being hosted in ''far from luxurious'' accommodations on site, in keeping with the decision to hold an ''austere'' summit meeting, and ''as close to the discomfort and inconvenience that the people of Abruzzo are having to put up with,'' referring to the region where L'Aquila is located.
 On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Berlusconi showed Mr. Obama around downtown L'Aquila, pausing in the main town square in front of the church of the Anime Sante, whose cupola is cracked open like an Easter egg. 
 The two leaders shook hands with recovery workers, and Mr. Obama told firefighters, ''Nice job. Keep up the good work,'' according to a pool report. He added: ''Our thoughts and prayers are with all the family members who lost loved ones.'' 
 Mr. Obama also shook his head in a modest gesture of disbelief in front of the collapsed facade of the main city government office. 
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Berlusconi showed the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, around Onna, one of the towns hardest hit by the quake, where houses still lie in ruins. Flanked by advisers in suits and yellow hard hats, the two leaders stopped to thank rescue and recovery workers.
 Germany has pledged to help restore the town, a choice made in part because in 1944 Nazi soldiers killed 17 residents in Onna. Mrs. Merkel said she wanted her visit ''to be a positive gesture for a town that in the past was struck by Germany,'' the Italian news agency ANSA reported.
 ''We hope that Onna becomes an example of sound building practices in the reconstruction,'' said Marzia Masiello, a spokeswoman for the residents of Onna. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); JOURNALISM (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); WRITERS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



255 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Government To Require Verification Of Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The Obama administration will require businesses that win federal contracts to use a government electronic database system to verify that their employees have legal immigration status to work in the United States, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said on Wednesday.
 After a six-month review, Homeland Security officials decided to go ahead with a worker-verification plan based on the electronic system, called E-Verify. The system, which the Bush administration sought to put into effect in its final months, is meant to prevent federal contractors from hiring illegal immigrants. 
 At the same time, Homeland Security officials said they would drop another Bush administration proposal that would have forced employers to fire any workers whose Social Security information did not match the records of the Social Security Administration. That measure, called the no-match rule, had been challenged in federal court by immigrant advocates and businesses, who said the Social Security database contained errors that could have cost thousands of legal workers their jobs.
 Administration officials said the court battle over the no-match rule, which never went into effect, would now end.
 The move to expand the use of E-Verify reflects the Obama administration's strategy of keeping up the pace of immigration enforcement while weighing whether to push for an overhaul this year that would give legal status to millions of illegal workers, officials said.
 But the E-Verify system has also been criticized by immigrant advocacy groups and is facing a challenge in federal court by the United States Chamber of Commerce and other business groups, who say the databases it relies on are also full of errors.
 ''It's the wrong move at the wrong time'' said Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles, one of the groups that challenged the no-match rule. While welcoming the cancellation of that rule, Ms. Hincapie said errors in the E-Verify system could lead to legal workers, including citizens, being fired in the midst of the recession.
 Unlike the no-match rule, E-Verify does not rely only on Social Security records, but also searches Homeland Security immigration records. Last year, the system expanded to include information about immigrants who became citizens. 
 Homeland Security officials said that as a result of recent improvements to the E-Verify system, 96.9 percent of workers who submitted identity information from October to December last year were immediately verified as eligible to work.
 Until now, E-Verify has been voluntary, used mainly by employers to check the legal status of workers at hiring. Officials said that under the new regulation, to take effect on Sept. 8, contractors would have to verify all workers, including current employees, when they were awarded work by the federal government. 
 Illegal immigrants have often presented false Social Security numbers when seeking jobs. 
 Angelo I. Amador, executive director for immigration policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said that while businesses would like to have a reliable national system to confirm workers' status, they objected to being required to use E-Verify, which was set up to be voluntary. Mr. Amador said that Intel, the computer chip maker, had reported finding errors in 13 percent of E-Verify responses to queries it made for current employees. 
 Support for a mandatory federal worker verification system is growing in Congress. Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who heads the judiciary subcommittee on immigration, has called for a biometric system to check every worker, including Americans, and on Wednesday the Senate approved an amendment by Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, to extend E-Verify permanently.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JANET NAPOLITANO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



256 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Salary Cap Clouds 2010 Free Agency

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS; Howard Beck contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As handshake agreements became signed contracts Wednesday, N.B.A. teams and the potential blockbuster free-agent class of 2010 awoke to a stark forecast and a stern warning.
 In a memorandum sent to teams late Tuesday night, the league announced that the salary cap for the 2009-10 season would be $57.7 million, a 1.6 percent decrease from last season, and a more drastic decline for 2010-11 -- perhaps as much as 5 percent -- could be put in place. A copy of the memo, first reported by ESPN.com, was obtained by The New York Times. 
 ''This is a warning to teams saying you're responsible for the decisions you make and don't say you haven't been warned,'' said Larry Coon, a salary cap expert who manages NBA Salary Cap FAQ (cbafaq.com). 
 The cap is generally tied to leaguewide revenues. The memo warned that league income might decrease between 2.5 and 5 percent in 2009-10, resulting in the cap's being set between $50.4 million and $53.6 million for the 2010-11 season. 
 ''Teams should be aware of this projected B.R.I. decrease and plan accordingly,'' the memo read, referring to basketball-related income. ''The projection is subject to change based on economic conditions and as more information on leaguewide business performance becomes available.'' 
 The announcement added new dimensions to the landscape of next summer's potential galaxy of star free agents. While teams have been budget conscious this summer, LeBron James may reconsider his plans. He is due $15.78 million for the 2009-10 season and $17.15 million if he plays the final season of his contract. 
 If James decides to forgo the final year, he will earn $16.59 million in the first season of a new contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers or another franchise. The number is a slight decrease from his current contract with the Cavaliers, under which he is set to make $17.15 million, and is based on his earning a 5 percent increase from his 2009-10 contract.
 Under the collective bargaining agreement, there is a seniority system involving how much teams can pay in maximum salaries, broken into three categories. 
 James, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade signed extensions after the 2006 season so that when their contracts expired, they would fall into the second tier of players who have tenure between 7 and 10 years. Their maximum salaries would be 30 percent of the salary cap or a 5 percent increase from their previous season's salary. 
 The players could opt out and earn slightly less at the front end of the contract and make it back, based on annual raises, along with the security blanket of having a long-term contract, should they be injured. 
 Another option is that the star players could sign extensions to their current contracts, but that could put their earnings at the whim of the future collective bargaining agreement after the current lame duck system expires in 2011. At most, James could tack on three years to his current contract via an extension. 
 A player's best interest, Coon said, may still be to test free agency. That would allow James and his peers to collect as many years as they can under the current collective bargaining agreement. 
 ''Signing an extension is a mistake because you're putting yourself in the mercy of an agreement that hasn't been negotiated,'' Coon said. 
 The shrinking salary cap could also affect the potential spending sprees of teams that have geared themselves for the expectant 2010 class. For example, the Knicks would have just under $24 million in committed contracts if they do not retain the restricted free agents David Lee and Nate Robinson and do not shed the contracts of Eddy Curry and Jared Jeffries. 
 Even if they signed James, they would have little left to offer a second franchise-type player. If the cap drops to $50 million, the Knicks would have only about $6.4 million to offer another player. 
 ''This summer, that will get you Trevor Ariza,'' Coon said. 
 The salary cap fell last season for only the second time in its 26-year history, from $58.68 million. Seven teams were above last season's luxury tax threshold of $71.15 million, led by the Knicks, who owe $23.7 million to the league. 
 The seven teams owe a total of $87.35 million that will be equally distributed among the 23 teams under the tax threshold. Because the luxury tax drops to $65 million next season, a majority of teams could wind up paying a luxury tax.
 In that case, there would be a bigger pot and fewer teams to split it. Coon predicted that there would be more instances of teams clearing house this season to stay under the threshold. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A lower salary cap and luxury tax threshold could curtail spending sprees for potential free agents like LeBron James. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY SHAMUS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



257 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Picks M.T.A. Figure As His No. 2

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson named Richard Ravitch, a Democratic lawyer with a career in government dating back a half century, as the state's lieutenant governor on Wednesday.
 Mr. Paterson said Mr. Ravitch, 76, would bring stability to the capital and help him end what he called the ''crisis in governance'' that for more than a month has paralyzed the Senate during its 31-to-31 split. The governor wants Mr. Ravitch to preside over the Senate, cast tie-breaking votes on leadership and other procedural votes and succeed him should Mr. Paterson be unable to serve.
 Mr. Paterson's move was intended to end the turmoil in the capital, but it seemed chiefly to intensify it, drawing threats of legal challenges even before the governor announced his decision on television at 5 p.m. 
 The lieutenant governor's office has been vacant since Gov. Eliot Spitzer resigned last year and Mr. Paterson succeeded him; the State Constitution does not provide for filling the office in the event of a vacancy. 
 Mr. Ravitch is best known in New York for serving as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority from 1979 until 1983, and he also ran for mayor in 1989, losing in a primary to David N. Dinkins. He was chief labor negotiator for Major League Baseball from 1991-1994, and last year the governor called on him to develop a financial rescue plan for the transportation authority. 
 Mr. Paterson's aides said they expected him to take over the role as soon as Thursday. They also made it clear that he would not be a candidate for the office in 2010 and that Mr. Paterson planned to pick someone else to run with him next year. 
 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, the state's top legal officer and a Democrat, like Mr. Paterson, said this week that naming a lieutenant governor would be unconstitutional and entangle the governor ''in a political ploy that would wind through the courts for many months.'' 
 Leaders of the Republican-dominated Senate coalition said that the governor's move would further complicate the fight for control of the Senate and that they were preparing a challenge. 
 The governor had his own political calculus. He and his staff believe that he can rebuild his diminished standing in the polls if he is seen to be rising above the Senate fracas and acting boldly. His campaign began making automated calls across the state publicizing the Ravitch selection shortly after his speech.
 In picking Mr. Ravitch, Mr. Paterson is turning to one of the stewards of New York City's financial rescue in the 1970s at a similar time of economic peril. Mr. Ravitch, who has agreed to forgo a salary, is a well-regarded public servant, who began his career working in Washington for the House Government Operations Committee in 1959. 
 He was chairman of the state's Urban Development Corporation under Gov. Hugh L. Carey before leading an overhaul of mass transit financing while he was chairman of the transportation authority. 
 In his televised address Wednesday, Governor Paterson said, ''This, I believe, is the right thing to do, I have no doubt of that,'' and added, ''At a time of unparalleled fiscal difficulty, the appointment of Richard Ravitch today will bring the governor a successor, the Senate a presiding officer and will help to alleviate this crisis.''
 Senator Dean G. Skelos, the leader of the Republican caucus, said in his own address, ''Sadly, once again, the governor has put his political career ahead of you, the public.'' He added: ''Attorney General Andrew Cuomo has already said it's unconstitutional for the governor to appoint a lieutenant governor, and I agree.''
 Senate Democrats welcomed the move. ''Extraordinary times call for extraordinary action,'' said the Senate Democratic leaders, John L. Sampson and Malcolm A. Smith, in a joint statement. 
 The Senate has been deadlocked since June 8, when Senator Pedro Espada Jr., a Democrat, defected to the Senate's 30 Republicans, leaving the 62-member chamber evenly divided. 
 Whether Mr. Paterson can legally appoint a lieutenant governor has been a matter of much debate this week. One view, advanced by Democrats and government watchdog groups, is that a provision of state law allows the governor to fill an elected office on his own, if there is not otherwise a process laid out in law for filling the vacancy.
 The governor argued that the appointment could solve several problems, among them the state's tangled line of succession. The combination of an empty lieutenant governor's office and the Senate battle has created confusion about who would take over if the governor were incapacitated. The Senate president is next in line to succeed the governor after the lieutenant governor, but both the feuding Republican and Democratic factions are laying claim to the position.
 Assemblyman Michael N. Gianaris, a Queens Democrat, said, ''It would guarantee a line of succession should something happen to the governor, and it would give the Senate a presiding officer to help get it out of the quagmire it's been in for the last month.'' 
 The State Constitution speaks at some length about what is to happen if the office of lieutenant governor is left vacant, but it makes no mention of the possibility of appointing a replacement. 
 Perhaps most important, the Senate's rules indicate that the lieutenant governor cannot be counted as part of a quorum, a key issue since neither faction has the 32 votes needed to constitute a quorum. 
 ''If he can't vote on that, then the rest becomes moot,'' said Gerald Benjamin, a professor of political science at the State University of New York at New Paltz.
 There is also the lack of precedent. Before the stalemate, Mr. Paterson had not sought to fill the position, nor have previous governors done so in other instances when the office was empty. 
 Even proponents conceded that the governor's decision was not sure to make it through the courts.
 ''This is not a slam-dunk,'' said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a watchdog group that has backed the proposal. But he added, ''There needs to be some risk-taking in order for us to break the stalemate.''
 There is another unspoken rationale for the governor to appoint Mr. Ravitch. His aides believe that it may smooth the way for a power-sharing deal between Senate Democrats and Republicans by removing something Democrats have said they cannot abide: the idea of Mr. Espada being next in line to succeed Mr. Paterson.
 Mr. Espada claimed the title of Senate president on June 8, and were he to retain that title, the absence of a lieutenant governor would make him second in line to Mr. Paterson. 
 The governor's office considered whether to make the appointment for about three weeks. Mr. Paterson and his aides first began seriously weighing it after June 18, when both Democrats and Republicans submitted paperwork that the state requires for senators to be paid. That paperwork usually comes from the Senate majority. 
 The governor has not traveled out of state since the dispute began to avoid any confusion about who is running the government.
 ''If something happened to me, it is not known who would act as governor,'' Mr. Paterson said Wednesday. ''That would throw the entire state government into the chaos that is being experienced in the Senate now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson before his televised address from the State Capitol, announcing his selection of Richard Ravitch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); MAYORS (70%); BASEBALL (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



258 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS RICHARD RAVITCH; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Baseball War Was Practice For Senate's

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS. 
Danny Hakim and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Richard Ravitch, Gov. David A. Paterson's choice to be lieutenant governor, has a resume thick with experience at some of the most unwieldy public institutions in New York. But some of his most instructive experience for navigating Albany's disjointed politics may come not from his days at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority or the Urban Development Corporation -- but rather from his three years as chief labor negotiator for Major League Baseball.
 In New York political circles, Mr. Ravitch, who turned 76 on Tuesday, is known as the whiz to whom governors have turned to help rescue some of the state's most financially beleaguered entities: the Urban Development Corporation in the late 1970s and the transit agency twice -- first in the early 1980s, then again last year. 
 But Mr. Ravitch was also one of the most integral -- and divisive -- figures in baseball at a time when team owners were mired in a messy dispute over how to share revenue among large and small franchises. As part of his revenue-sharing plan, Mr. Ravitch suggested a cap on players' salaries, a move that ultimately helped precipitate the 1994-95 strike that crippled baseball.
 In other words, Mr. Ravitch became familiar with an environment in which warring factions fight over choices they would rather not have to make. That, in a nutshell, is Albany these days.
 ''I think anyone who could deal with the egos of the baseball owners can certainly deal with the political problems we're encountering,'' said Irving R. Fischer, Mr. Ravitch's longtime friend and business partner of more than 45 years, who has worked with him on various real estate development projects. Between his public jobs and Major League Baseball, Mr. Ravitch has had a lucrative career as a developer. 
 Mr. Fischer added: ''Ravitch comes out of the construction and building business. If you're faint of heart you don't belong in that business. So he is a stand-up guy who will not take pushing around, but on the other hand, he also knows how to reach agreement with people.''
 Of course, Mr. Ravitch was ultimately unsuccessful in brokering a deal between players and owners. His contract with Major League Baseball was not renewed, and he left at the end of 1994 at the height of the strike. 
 But friends and colleagues say his familiarity with the intricacies of New York politics leave him well suited to ride herd on a Senate that is locked in a dispute over who can rightfully claim the majority. 
 ''He has that kind of personality, that kind of charm, that's difficult for anyone to turn him down,'' said Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the State Assembly, who has known Mr. Ravitch for more than 30 years.
 The two worked together most recently earlier this year, when Mr. Ravitch had the task of selling the Legislature on a report he authored that recommended lawmakers take the undesirable step of raising subway fares and adding tolls to East River bridges. 
 (When it adopted its rescue plan for the authority in May, the Legislature disregarded some of Mr. Ravitch's recommendations, including the tolls. But it did adopt a version of the payroll tax he proposed, which was a crucial element of his plan.)
 ''They may never agree with him,'' Mr. Silver added, ''but it's very difficult not to sit with him and not hear his case.''
 Mr. Silver said Mr. Ravitch was unassuming and lacked ego. ''He does not have an iota of the arrogance that you'd think someone of his accomplishments would be entitled to,'' Mr. Silver said.
 Mr. Fischer said Mr. Ravitch asked him on Tuesday to meet him for lunch the following day. And when the two met in Manhattan on Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Fischer said the lieutenant-governor-designate kept the secret of his pending appointment so well guarded that he did not mention it until the two sat down to eat.
 ''I said, 'Now the question is, what do you want to do?' And he said, 'I want to help the governor get this thing straightened out,' '' Mr. Fischer said.
 Mr. Ravitch has a history of being well regarded by both Republicans and Democrats, though he is a registered Democrat and was elected a delegate for President Obama in 2008 New York primary -- a role that took a bit of gumption to seek in Hillary Rodham Clinton's home state.
 Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, picked Mr. Ravitch to lead the city's school system in 1995. But Mr. Ravitch ultimately withdrew his name from consideration because he said he believed the school system needed major structural reform, not merely a new chancellor. 
 Mr. Ravitch is also steeped in Washington politics. His foray into politics came in 1966 when President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him to the National Commission on Urban Problems. He now shares an office suite in Rockefeller Center with Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman.
 He seems to thrive in situations of upheaval and financial disintegration. Gov. Hugh L. Carey enlisted him to rescue the Urban Development Corporation in 1975. By the time he left, four years later, he had restored the agency to solvency, enabling it to complete tens of thousands of houses and apartments.
 He oversaw a similarly daunting task at the transportation authority, which Mr. Carey picked him to lead, from 1979 to 1983. The authority's infrastructure was a shambles when he arrived, and he was able to secure financing to buy new buses, subway tracks, signals and cars. Much of that money came from Albany. 
 In a brief phone interview on Wednesday, Mr. Ravitch, a father of two grown sons, said of his latest task, ''I just hope to help the state through a period of fiscal pressures and economic downturns, just as I have several times in the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Ravitch, right, has helped rescue some of the most beleaguered institutions in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); POLITICS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); CITIES (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



259 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Members Of Cabinet Are Replaced In Argentina

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Charles Newbery contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
One week after her party suffered a sweeping defeat in national congressional elections, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina has shaken up her government, replacing her cabinet chief and economy minister but leaving in place two powerful ministers from her inner circle, a sign that her administration may preserve much of its direction in policy. 
 Mrs. Kirchner had already lost her health minister, who resigned hours after Nestor Kirchner, her husband and the former president, came in second in a pivotal congressional race in Buenos Aires Province last week. The defeat was a significant setback for the Kirchners' presidential aspirations in 2011, and it was aggravated by the losses their Peronist Party faction suffered in other key provinces. 
 Mrs. Kirchner replaced Sergio Massa, the cabinet chief, with Justice Minister Anibal Fernandez late Tuesday. She named Amado Boudou, the head of social security, as economy minister, replacing Carlos Fernandez, who had been in the job 14 months. Julio Alak, the general manager of Aerolineas Argentinas, took over as justice minister. 
 The new ministers were sworn in on Wednesday as Juan Manzur, the new health minister, met with senators in a closed session about Argentina's growing outbreak of swine flu. Dr. Manzur said the death toll had risen to 70, from 26 on June 26. Argentina has the third highest number of deaths from the virus, behind the United States and Mexico. 
 It was not clear whether the senators questioned Dr. Manzur about how much the government knew about the flu outbreak before the June 28 election. Dr. Manzur has denied claims that officials had concealed information about the number of people infected, attributing the rapid increase in confirmed cases to the use of only one testing lab, a problem he told the senators would be remedied.
 Private banks announced that they would take a ''sanitary'' holiday on Friday in a further effort to slow the flu's spread. Schools and many other public venues have been closed since Monday for extended holidays because of health concerns. 
 As for the cabinet shuffle, analysts portrayed it as more cosmetic than substantive. Mrs. Kirchner left in place the ministers who are viewed as the most important in carrying out an economic strategy being directed by Mr. Kirchner -- Julio de Vido, the planning minister, and Guillermo Moreno, the commerce secretary.
 ''The moves confirm that the Kirchners have ignored the constituency's demand for change,'' the investment bank Barclays Capital said Wednesday in a research note. ''The appointments objectively suggest that they continue to rely on their inner circle, and that Nestor Kirchner, far from moving away from economic and policy decisions, will continue making all the relevant calls.''
 Mr. de Vido and Mr. Moreno are widely viewed as executing policies that have led to the manipulation of economic figures at the government's statistical agency, Indec. Untrustworthy figures and Argentina's heavy subsidies for food and fuel have driven off foreign investors and encouraged billions of dollars in capital flight. 
 Argentina is also struggling with high inflation, rising public spending and a narrowing fiscal surplus, as well as a lack of credit and declining consumer confidence, said Jaime Abut, who leads Estudio Abut y Asociados, a consulting firm.
 The cabinet shuffle shows that despite his resignation as head of the Peronist Party last week, Mr. Kirchner ''has the real power,'' Mr. Abut said. 
 Francisco de Narvaez, the congressman who defeated Mr. Kirchner in the June 28 election, said Wednesday that ''nothing is going to change'' in Argentina unless Mr. Moreno and Mr. Kirchner were removed from the government. ''This country needs real changes,'' Mr. de Narvaez said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INFLUENZA (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (76%); DISEASE REPORTING (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (63%)

COMPANY: AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (92%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (73%) ARGENTINA (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



260 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Obama Enlists Major Powers to Aid Poor Farmers With $15 Billion

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and CELIA W. DUGGER; Peter Baker reported from L'Aquila, Italy, and Celia W. Dugger from Johannesburg.

DATELINE: L'AQUILA, Italy 

 BODY:
President Obama has enlisted the world's leading powers to contribute $15 billion to help millions of the world's poorest farmers grow enough food to feed themselves, American officials said Wednesday.
 If the assistance is delivered and is in fact mostly new money, it will constitute the largest international effort in decades to combat hunger by investing in the fundamentals of an agricultural economy, including seed, fertilizer, grain storage and research into new plant varieties.
 With the ranks of the hungry expected to exceed a billion people this year, the undertaking has great urgency for the bulk of the world's poor who still live in rural areas. 
 And it also signals a major change in the United States' own approach to hunger, which has relied far more on shipping American-grown food to the starving than on helping them grow their own.
 This aid package effectively recognizes the growing consensus among philanthropists, economists and African governments that efforts to reduce poverty on the continent are probably doomed without far greater investment in agriculture. While aid to educate the poor and keep them healthy is critical, so is helping millions of farmers grow more food and earn some income.
 Mr. Obama, who has made improving the productivity of farmers in the developing world a top priority since taking office, lobbied other world leaders to join him in backing this venture during telephone conversations in recent weeks. Leaders from Italy and Japan, among others, also took the lead in forging a consensus. The resulting commitments, to be unveiled Friday, may be among the most tangible achievements of his first summit meeting with the Group of 8 powers, here in L'Aquila. 
 ''We don't need fancy computers to solve these problems,'' Mr. Obama said in a recent interview with allAfrica.com, which distributes news from across the continent. ''We need tried-and-true agricultural methods and technologies that are cheap and are efficient but could have a huge impact in terms of people's day-to-day well-being.''
 The $15 billion, to be spent over three years, would come from the United States and the other Group of 8 members: Britain, France, Germany, Russia, Italy, Canada and Japan. They have promised to better coordinate their efforts to avoid a mismatched quilt of programs, with the World Bank in a pivotal role.
 Without the details of the financing from each country, it is hard to gauge the actual scale of the new package. Some of the promised aid seems likely to be old money counted as new. An Obama administration official, Michael Froman, said after a briefing on Wednesday that all the United States' agricultural assistance was being counted as ''new money'' because the administration could have chosen to spend nothing. 
 Still, the amount of global aid now given to agriculture, about $5 billion a year, is so low that advocates and charity leaders said the infusion of new money was substantial, even as they insisted that they would need to study the fine print to measure just how significant it would be.
 ''This is a major initiative and will mark a turning point in the hunger challenge,'' said Jeffrey D. Sachs, a Columbia University economist who has long campaigned for increased aid to farmers. ''For more than 20 years there was not only a neglect of agriculture, but a reliance on shipping emergency food aid.''
 Mr. Obama announced in April that he was asking Congress to double American financial support for agricultural growth in developing countries to more than $1 billion a year in 2010. The American share of the $15 billion Group of 8 program would be $3.5 billion over three years, a sum that includes what the United States already spends annually. 
 A draft statement said the new program ''differs from previous approaches first because we will coordinate at country, regional and global levels and commit to work as partners with all stakeholders.'' Also, the statement said, ''it is focused squarely on agriculture development, which has for long been neglected.''
 Andrew S. Natsios, who led the United States Agency for International Development under President George W. Bush, said, ''It's better late than never.'' Mr. Natsios, long a frustrated advocate for agricultural aid, said: ''Most of the poorest people in the world are farmers and herders who live in rural areas. Unless you address agriculture, all development programs will be unsustainable.'' 
 Aid for agriculture plummeted by 75 percent from the late 1980s to the early 1990s and remained at a low level, according to a June report by Oxfam International, the aid organization. The amount only recently began creeping up to about $5 billion in 2007.
 But the issue did not gain real political traction until last year, when soaring food prices caused a growing number of people to go hungry and contributed to food riots in more than 30 countries. 
 ''That's what made everybody sit up and say, 'We can't just ignore this,' '' said Julie Howard, executive director of the Partnership to Cut Hunger and Poverty in Africa, based in Washington.
 The worsening global economy this year has pushed even more people into poverty. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimates that the number of hungry people will grow by almost 100 million this year, reversing a four-decade downward trend.
 Some aid experts, like Dr. Helene D. Gayle, president of CARE, the international group, are optimistic about efforts to help poor farmers. Many groups like hers have been working in the countryside for years, hampered by a shortage of money. ''We're not starting from scratch,'' she said.
 Professor Sachs points to the success of Malawi, in southern Africa, which sharply raised food production by providing widespread subsidies for fertilizer.''You can double, even triple or quadruple food production from one growing season to the next by enabling small-holder farmers to get access to high-yielding seeds, fertilizer and agricultural extension services,'' he said.
 But William Easterly, a New York University economist, said Mr. Obama should study the past to avoid repeating it. 
 Robert S. McNamara, the former World Bank president who died Monday, undertook the last great push for investment in African agriculture in the 1970s. Evaluations found that many of those projects failed. They were too complicated. They relied too heavily on Western experts. Sometimes the governments themselves had little commitment to them. 
 ''The curse of aid is that they never learn from history,'' Professor Easterly said. ''They need to go back and realize a lot of things promised today have been promised before.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in L'Aquila, Italy, with, from left, Taro Aso of Japan, Stephen Harper of Canada, Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW MEDICHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); AGRICULTURE (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); STARVATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LOBBYING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (59%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%); TARO ASO (50%); STEPHEN HARPER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (92%); ITALY (90%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



261 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: POORER NATIONS REJECT A TARGET ON EMISSION CUT

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from L'Aquila, and John M. Broder from Washington.

DATELINE: L'AQUILA, Italy 

 BODY:
The world's biggest developing nations, led by China and India, refused Wednesday to commit to specific goals for slashing heat-trapping gases by 2050, undercutting the drive to build a global consensus by the end of this year to reverse the threat of climate change.
 As President Obama arrived for three days of talks with other leaders of the Group of 8 nations, negotiators for 17 leading polluters abandoned targets in a draft agreement for the meetings here. But negotiators embraced a goal of preventing temperatures from rising more than 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, and developing nations agreed to make ''meaningful'' if unspecified reductions in emissions.
 The mixed results underscored the challenges for Mr. Obama as he tries to use his first summit meeting of the Group of 8 powers to force progress toward a climate treaty. With Europe pressing for more aggressive action and Congress favoring a more restrained approach, Mr. Obama finds himself navigating complicated political currents at home and abroad. 
 If he cannot ultimately bring along developing countries, no climate deal will be effective. 
 The debate over warming dominated the opening of the summit meeting, but the Group of 8 nations also tackled the global economic recession, Middle East peace, the war in Afghanistan and development in Africa. Mr. Obama invited his colleagues to a nuclear security conference in Washington in March and prepared to announce a $15 billion program to combat world hunger. And in a statement, the leaders said they ''deplore postelectoral violence'' in Iran, and they pressed Tehran for a diplomatic solution to the standoff on its nuclear program. 
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France told reporters late Wednesday that the major powers would give talks with Iran until September to make progress; but ''then we will have to take decisions,'' he said. 
 Mr. Obama put climate change front and center by scheduling a meeting on the sidelines of the main talks on Thursday and inviting nine other nations that, along with the Group of 8, pump out 80 percent of the world's greenhouse gases. American officials called the results a step forward in the arduous process intended to lead to a worldwide climate treaty at a conference in Copenhagen in December.
 But the impasse over the 2050 targets demonstrated again the most vexing problem in reaching a consensus on climate change: the longstanding divisions between developed countries like the United States, Europe and Japan on one side, and developing nations like China, India, Brazil and Mexico on the other.
 While the richest countries have produced the bulk of the pollution blamed for climate change, developing countries are producing increasing volumes of gases. But developing countries say their climb out of poverty should not be halted to fix damage done by industrial countries. 
 As various sides tried to draft an agreement to sign Thursday, those tensions scuttled the specific goals sought by the United States and Europe. The proposed agreement called for worldwide emissions to be cut 50 percent by 2050, with industrial countries cutting theirs by 80 percent. But emerging powers refused to agree because they wanted industrial countries to commit to midterm goals in the next decade and to follow through on promises of financial and technological help for poorer nations.
 ''They're saying, 'We just don't trust you guys,' '' said Alden Meyer, of the Union of Concerned Scientists. ''It's the same gridlock we had last year when Bush was president.''
 Still, American officials said the agreement on Thursday would include important conceptual commitments by the developing nations to begin curbing emissions and to set a target date for gases to peak. 
 Moreover, a separate statement approved by the Group of 8 nations embraced the 80 percent emission cut for industrial nations and said scientists believed that the increase in world temperature ''ought not to exceed'' 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit.
 ''There were a number of different steps that create a meaningful commitment on emissions control,'' said Mike Froman, Mr. Obama's chief Group of 8 negotiator, ''and we're still a fair ways away from Copenhagen, and we'll be working with the developing countries between now and then to try and firm up commitments.''
 The complicated multidirectional negotiations reflect varying messages that the Obama administration is sending different audiences. It is telling the Europeans it agrees with their long-term goals but will not commit to their ambitious short-term targets. At the same time, it is not demanding that leading developing countries make comparable commitments, stoking suspicions in Europe that Mr. Obama is pursuing a separate diplomatic track with China that will result in less ambitious targets.
 Other Group of 8 leaders emphasized that any solution to climate change depended on the developing world's joining the battle. Without China and India, said Arkady Dvorkovich, the chief Russian negotiator, any further discussions would not lead anywhere. Besides the United States, Russia and France, the Group of 8 includes Britain, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada.
 Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, the meeting's host, said it made little sense for Group of 8 countries to take on onerous commitments if ''five billion people continue to behave as they have always behaved.'' 
 Any deal with developing nations became even more elusive after President Hu Jintao of China left for home to deal with unrest in the west of his country. Without agreement from the developing nations on specific targets, the Group of 8 nations watered down their commitment to the 2-degree benchmark. 
 A recent draft of the Group of 8 agreement said emissions should be reduced ''to limit the average increase in global temperature to 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels.'' The final version said the nations ''recognize the broad scientific view'' that it should not rise more than 2 degrees Celsius. 
 Mr. Meyer said temperatures had already risen by 0.8 degree and would probably rise by another 0.6 degree based only on pollution already in the air, meaning that embracing that goal would require that major steps be taken almost immediately.
 President George W. Bush agreed to a 50 percent cut in global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but not to an 80 percent reduction in those produced by industrial countries. With Mr. Obama's support, the House recently passed legislation to curb emissions, though not nearly as fast as the Europeans want.
 Jake Schmidt, the international climate policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that despite the rejection of the 2050 goals, it was heartening that the developing countries were committing to make reductions, and he added that the 2-degree benchmark would be an important yardstick. 
 ''Now,'' he said, ''every action that is put forward from any country is viewed through this lens -- does it help to hold global temperatures below 2 degrees?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France spoke Wednesday with President Obama during a round-table session at the Group of 8 summit meeting in L'Aquila, Italy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (91%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (69%); IRAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



262 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Europe Is Studying Delays In Access to Generic Drugs

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
Europe's antitrust regulator took aim at drug companies in France, Israel, India and the United States on Wednesday after a lengthy inquiry into practices that it claimed kept low-cost medicines from reaching consumers quickly.
 The European Union competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said the first case would focus on Les Laboratoires Servier, based in France, and on makers of generic drugs, including Teva Pharmaceutical Industries of Israel, and units of the United States company Mylan and the Indian group Unichem Laboratories.
 Ms. Kroes said she suspected Servier and the other companies had reached agreements aimed at hindering the availability of a generic version of its cardiovascular medicine perindopril. 
 ''When it comes to generic entry, every week and month of delay costs money to patients and taxpayers,'' Ms. Kroes said in announcing her findings. ''We will not hesitate to apply the antitrust rules where such delays result from anticompetitive practices.'' 
 Servier and Teva said in separate statements that they would cooperate with the investigation. 
 Brian Ager, the director general of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, said that drug companies ''remain disappointed that the report still claims -- erroneously -- that industry practices in some way contribute to slowing generic entry.''
 Mr. Ager said there was ''nothing to substantiate these claims.''
 European governments, which pay billions of euros for prescription medicines, are dealing with a financial crisis and recession that have severely strained their resources.
 The European Union began investigating the pharmaceutical sector early last year after complaints that nonbranded drugs were slow in coming to the market and were often unavailable in Europe. Officials carried out surprise inspections at several companies, including Pfizer of the United States, GlaxoSmithKline of Britain and Teva.
 A central concern of the European regulators is that dealings between brand-name companies and generic drug makers create unnecessarily long monopolies on prescription medicines.
 The commission's campaign could hurt sales of brand-name drugs, but it could also increase access by patients to cheaper medicines, particularly as patents worth tens of billions of euros are set to expire in the next few years.
 Ms. Kroes said the inquiry found about 100 cases in which big pharmaceutical companies had reached settlements with generic companies that delayed cheaper medicines. Commission officials said that more than 10 percent of the settlement cases examined involved direct payments amounting to 200 million euros. 
 She also promised tough scrutiny of lobbying done by pharmaceutical companies at national agencies for patent extensions, as well as other practices like taking out unduly large numbers of patents and patenting new versions of older drugs -- a practice known as evergreening -- if the purpose of those strategies was to exclude competition. 
 Commission officials said that generic versions of drugs often were unavailable for at least seven months after the patent on the original version expired -- a factor that drove costs up by at least 3 billion euros from 2000 to 2007 in 17 European Union countries. 
 Even so, Ms. Kroes took a softer approach to big pharmaceutical companies, which she had previously suggested bore most of the responsibility for skewing the market. On Wednesday, while criticizing their business practices, she underlined that factors beyond the control of those companies were also to blame.
 ''We must have more competition and less red tape in pharmaceuticals,'' Ms. Kroes said. ''The sector is too important to the health and finances of Europe's citizens and governments to accept anything less than the best.''
 In particular, Ms. Kroes urged governments to accelerate approval procedures for generic medicines and take steps to ensure that clinics and patients were reimbursed sooner.
 She said the commission would propose reforms to existing European Union rules on the way governments should handle procedures for authorizing drugs and how they were priced.
 She also called on governments to adopt a so-called Community Patent for all of the European Union, and to agree to reform ways in which patents are adjudicated to overcome conflicting national decisions and allow for earlier availability of generic drugs.
 Drug companies have long been at odds with regulators in Europe, where countries have universal health systems and where governments negotiate the prices of medications. 
 European pharmaceutical sales are worth 214 billion ($299 billion) a year, representing 2 percent of the 27-member trade bloc's gross domestic product. 
 Ms. Kroes said the inquiry had been necessary to find out why the number of new drugs reaching the market had dropped to an average of 28 a year from 2000 to 2004, from 40 a year in 1995 through 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); GENERIC DRUGS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); EURO (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); PATENTS (87%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSPECTIONS (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%)

COMPANY: LES LABORATOIRES SERVIER (93%); PFIZER INC (90%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (90%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (72%); UNICHEM LABORATORIES LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); GSK (NYSE) (90%); GSK (LSE) (90%); BIOC (EGX) (90%); TEVA (TASE) (72%); TEVA (NYSE) (72%); UNICHEMLAB (NSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); INDIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009



263 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: See No Evil, And Pay No Penalty

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
For years, Beazer Homes USA was much more than a builder of houses. It was a veritable crime wave.
 The company defrauded buyers, particularly poor people being sold homes they could not afford. It defrauded the federal government by getting government-guaranteed mortgages for those buyers. It created subdivisions now dominated by dozens of foreclosed homes.
 And while it was at it, Beazer lied to shareholders about how much money it was making. First, it lied by claiming it was making less than it was. Then it lied by hiding losses when the housing bubble began to burst. To keep the lies going, the government says, the company prepared fraudulent documents to mislead its auditors. 
 Last week, Beazer settled the legal problems stemming from its crimes. It entered into a remarkably generous deferred prosecution agreement with the Justice Department, in which the company will pay $15 million, and perhaps more if it manages to earn profits enough and does not decide to file for bankruptcy.
 Some of that money will go to defrauded homeowners, assuming they file claims and submit evidence. No money is to go to lawyers who help those homeowners, however. If the company knows a particular customer was defrauded, and by how much, it is under no obligation to point that out to the customer. 
 Harry Truman used to say, ''The buck stops here,'' meaning that the president took responsibility.
 Beazer could have a similar slogan, but with a very different meaning. The bucks have continued to flow to the top, but the company thinks the responsibility for the crimes lies elsewhere. Heads rolled among lower-level officials, but the chief executive and chief operating officer have kept their jobs.
 The board -- all of whose members were there when the crime wave was under way -- has not changed at all.
 After the directors learned of the crimes, they did take some action. In 2008, a disastrous year for the company, the board gave the chief executive, Ian McCarthy, a bonus for his efforts in ''communicating the importance of compliance by employees.''
 Not everyone thinks that bonus was deserved.
 ''The C.E.O. should go,'' said Charles Elson, the director of Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware, after reviewing the public documents at my request. ''For something like that to happen in an organization, whether it is the cookie jar reserves or the sales practices, there is a question of tone at the top. That is ultimately his responsibility, whether he was aware of the specific problems or not.''
 Mr. McCarthy did not agree to an interview. Nor did the company make any directors available to discuss their decisions.
 Beazer's crime wave might have gone on longer than it did but for a North Carolina newspaper, The Charlotte Observer, which in 2007 reported what had happened in some sad subdivisions outside Charlotte. Fraud was committed in numerous ways, and now some of those subdivisions are filled with empty, foreclosed homes.
 The buyers of those homes will be eligible for a few thousand dollars, if they can put together documents showing that they suffered from specific abuses. The Federal Housing Administration, which guaranteed the mortgages, gets $5 million.
 The tale of what Beazer did is laid out in the information filed by federal prosecutors and in a civil suit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission against the company's former chief accounting officer, who was fired. The company has agreed not to contest the facts of what happened.
 Mr. McCarthy, the chief executive, is paying a penalty. He agreed to contribute the after-tax balance of the $600,000 bonus the company paid him for fiscal 2008, when Beazer posted a net loss of $952 million, or $24.69 a share. The shares trade for less than $2 each, and have slipped since the deferred prosecution agreement was announced.
 In announcing the deferred prosecution agreement, the Justice Department said that had it sought more money it might have risked driving the company into bankruptcy, costing the jobs of innocent people, and it praised the company for getting rid of the people responsible for the crimes. The determination of who was responsible evidently is largely based on the company's own investigation, which was shared with the government but not made public.
 The charges the company admitted say the accounting fraud and the defrauding of the homebuyers were under way by 2000, and continued until 2007.
 I have no reason to believe that either Mr. McCarthy or anyone on the board understood the crimes the company was committing, year after year. 
 But Mr. McCarthy was running the company for the entire period, and the junior member of the board, Peter G. Leemputte, became a director in 2005. If neither Mr. McCarthy nor any board members had any inkling of what was going on, they were not doing a very good job, to say the least.
 In the announcement of the deferred prosecution agreement, Shaun Donovan, the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, said, ''This action shows that the administration is serious about making the housing market safe from mortgage fraud and will crack down on those who violate the trust of American homebuyers.'' 
 Tony West, an assistant attorney general, said, ''Fighting mortgage fraud is a top priority for this administration, especially when public dollars are at stake.''
 But the message received by corporate executives may be very different from the one the government thinks it was sending:
 If a boss can preserve his deniability about crimes committed by his company -- perhaps by showing little curiosity about just how the profits are being earned when he is taking in millions from cashing in stock options -- then he can escape being held accountable if the crimes are eventually uncovered.
 Or, as Sergeant Schultz used to say on the television sitcom ''Hogan's Heroes,'' ''I see nothing. I know nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beazer Homes USA, which builds homes in 16 states, has settled its legal case. This home is in Sunnyvale, Tex., near Dallas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE FUENTES/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); LAWYERS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%)

COMPANY: BEAZER HOMES USA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: BZH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (58%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: IAN J MCCARTHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



264 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Roadside Camp for Miami Sex Offenders Leads to Lawsuit

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Gary Fineout contributed reporting from Tallahassee, Fla.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
They used to be invisible, the four or five convicted sex offenders camping out on the Julia Tuttle Causeway connecting Miami to Miami Beach. But for three years now -- pushed by local laws that bar them from living within 2,500 feet of where children gather -- more and more criminals have moved in.
 ''At first, I thought 'Tuttle' was a halfway house,'' said Ricky Dorzena, 23, sitting in the encampment his probation officers recommended five months ago. ''Then they said, 'No, you're staying under a bridge.' '' 
 At least 70 convicted sex offenders live here now, in a shantytown on Biscayne Bay with trash piles clawed by crabs. It has become what even law enforcement officials call a public-safety hazard, produced by laws intended to keep the public safe. 
 On Thursday, the American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit in state court to strike them down. The complaint argues that Miami-Dade County's 2,500-foot restriction illegally pre-empts the state's restriction of 1,000 feet, creating a situation in which sex offenders are more likely to flee supervision and commit new crimes. 
 Similar challenges to local residency restrictions in New York and New Jersey have recently succeeded in court, but legal experts say the Florida case will be watched closely because few states have tougher laws, or have drawn as much attention for child abductions -- from Adam Walsh to Caylee Anthony. 
 ''Florida is important because they have tested the bounds,'' said Corey Rayburn Yung, an expert in sex-offender law at John Marshall Law School in Chicago. ''If Florida's courts are willing to say, 'No, no, you can't do this,' then it's a sign that most other courts would come out the same way.''
 The camp is a community no one wants to exist. The first sex offenders here, like Patrick Wiese, 48, who said he served time in prison after having his stepdaughter touch him inappropriately, arrived nearly three years ago and would like to leave. Smoking a cigarette under the bridge on Thursday, Mr. Wiese said he wants to move to Homestead. He has money. He has a job at a sandwich shop, but cannot find an apartment that complies with the law. 
 ''I've checked out 17 places,'' he said, after displaying his Florida license, which lists his address as ''Julia Tuttle Bridge.'' ''The probation officer says no.'' 
 In the beginning, he said, the camp was small, without many problems. But lately, it has become more tense as the recession and the steady flow of former prisoners added residents. 
 Under the bridge on Thursday, tents and plywood shacks competed for space with rusty bicycles, a skinny cat, and a beige lawn chair. In a sign of the camp's bereft permanence, a yellow electrical cord attached to a generator snaked through the camp flat against the ground, pounded by countless footsteps. 
 ''Sometimes we have harmony, sometimes chaos,'' Mr. Wiese said. Mr. Dorzena, who said he served 17 months in jail for having sex with a 14-year-old when he was 18, smoked a cigarette beside him. ''Right now,'' Mr. Wiese said, ''we have so many people here, it's chaos.''
 The police agree. 
 John Timoney, the Miami police chief, said that on the Fourth of July, several officers used a stun gun against a man under the bridge who, in a fit of depression, began cutting himself with a knife, apparently in a suicide attempt. Chief Timoney predicted more violence.
 He said he had told city, state and county officials that the men (only one or two women live there) needed to be moved to more permanent homes, even if it meant changing one or more laws. He has gotten mostly studies in return, along with politicians accusing one another of shirking responsibility. 
 ''It's like a hot potato,'' Chief Timoney said. ''Everyone is just passing it on.'' 
 In fact, Jose Diaz -- the county commissioner who sponsored the law establishing the 2,500-foot boundary in 2005 -- said state corrections officials were to blame for placing sex offenders on state-owned land. He defended the county law by saying, ''If I can save some kids from going through this agony, I've done my job.''
 Gov. Charlie Crist, meanwhile, placed responsibility squarely on local governments, which have ''the right to do what they feel is appropriate for the citizens that they serve.''
 Gretl Plessinger, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Corrections, put the problem in a broader perspective: ''It's an issue that everybody needs to deal with.'' 
 But as the camp's continued existence shows, no one has -- which is not a surprise, Mr. Rayburn Yung said. ''These laws are always universally popular,'' he said. ''The public loves it.'' 
 Only the courts may force a change. The A.C.L.U. lawsuit argues that extreme residency restrictions contribute to homelessness, and lead sex offenders to commit more crimes because they are ''living in filth and squalor, remote from family life.'' 
 For proof, it cites the state's online list of registered sex offenders and predators, which shows that 236 offenders in Miami-Dade County have skipped out on their probation, including some who used to live under the bridge on the causeway. 
 Ms. Plessinger said corrections officials shared the A.C.L.U.'s concerns. Noting that living under an interstate was a last resort caused by lack of money and the strict local rules, she said: ''It's not a good situation. It's not a good situation for probation officers. It's not a good situation for the offenders under the bridge, but it's also not a good situation for public safety in Miami-Dade.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Julia Tuttle Causeway, which connects Miami and Miami Beach, has become an encampment for about 70 convicted sex offenders like Ricky Dorzena.
 Mr. Dorzena, 23, said his probation officers recommended the ''Julia Tuttle'' five months ago.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PROBATION (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PRISONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CHILDREN (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); SMOKING (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (98%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



265 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; AMERICAN JOURNEYS BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY, NEW ENGLAND; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Where 'Made in America' Made Its Debut

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE Blackstone River, which loops like yarn through central New England, once knitted together some of the country's most densely settled, smoke-spewing towns. But on a recent two-day kayak trip I found more than just evidence of the Blackstone's grimy past.
 Miles of thickly wooded banks slid by without a trace of a house, a car or even a cellphone tower. Painted turtles swam leisurely through limpid pools. Great blue herons all but had the place to themselves, stretching their huge wings to prove it. Without squinting, it might have been the early 1600s, before English settlers put their flags down.
 Those wild sections speak to a new phase in the life of the 46-mile-long Blackstone, which flows from Worcester, Mass., to Pawtucket, R.I. In the last three decades the Blackstone has shrugged off centuries of pollution and begun to clean itself up. Runoff dye from some of the 100 mills that once clacked along its banks no longer tints the river orange, residents say, and old appliances no longer wind up in its eddies. Dozens of species of fish, particularly trout, are making a comeback.
 But seeing only the trees would mean missing the hidden-in-plain-sight traces of the Blackstone's manufacturing heyday, which include solitary arches hidden by oaks and fragments of walls carved with runelike dates. 
 That so many industrial leftovers are unmarked or forgotten can seem striking considering the Blackstone helped give birth to the American Industrial Revolution when Samuel Slater opened a water-powered textile mill near the river's mouth in 1793. Today, that yellow clapboard structure, topped with a graceful bell tower, anchors a well-kept three-building museum complex.
 By using machines to make fabric, as opposed to human hands, Slater set in motion an assembly-line-based economy that only now seems to be fading. 
 But the legacy of the mills is lasting, historians say. The new, automated economy led to the creation of stocks of rental housing, which hadn't really existed before. Broader voter participation and credit accounts were other enduring offshoots, as the country segued to a financial system based on currency rather than barter, said Kevin Klyberg, a ranger with the National Park Service. The park service organizes conservation efforts in the 400,000-acre Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor, which was designated in 1986.
 ''Before Slater, most people in America were farmers or craftsmen,'' Mr. Klyberg said. ''After, they basically sold their time to stand next to machines.'' Household-name companies that once had operations in the valley included Tupperware and Owens Corning, in addition to the Valley Falls Company, which was a forerunner of Berkshire Hathaway, Warren Buffett's company. 
 In the 1950s, Mr. Klyberg said, the Ann & Hope Mill in Cumberland, R.I., reinvented itself as one of the country's first big-box stores, introducing shopping carts, central checkout counters and clerk-free aisles filled with a grab bag of deeply discounted products. Sam Walton, the founder of Wal-Mart, paid a formative visit. 
 I began my trip at the Blackstone River and Canal Heritage State Park in Uxbridge, Mass., after a night at an Econo Lodge in Sutton, Mass., one of a few hotels near the river's upper section. The park features a nearly intact stretch of the Blackstone Canal.
 Completed in 1828, the canal used both open-river passages and artificial channels segmented by 48 locks to allow horse-drawn boats to go north and south. They would head downstream with milk, meat and hay, for a penny a ton per mile before returning with coal, cotton and molasses.
 Though the railroad that arrived in 1847 rendered the canal obsolete, mill owners realized that they could modify some of the channels and locks into high-volume millraces to spin their turbines. Such reuse can be seen at the park's edge at the former Stanley Woolen Mill, where a millrace cuts through a cluster of tall wooded buildings that wove fabric from the 1850s to 1990s. 
 In recent years, developers have begun converting the mills into condominiums and rental units, taking advantage of the large windows, beamed ceilings and river views.
 Notable projects involve the Tupperware plant near the Blackstone Gorge, which is becoming the High Rocks Condominiums, and the Owens Corning factory in Cumberland, which is now the River Lofts at Ashton Mill. 
 Many dams that once powered these hulks still block the Blackstone, so portages are required on a long-distance paddling trip. Particularly tough to circumnavigate is the 18-foot-high Manville Dam at Cumberland, so it's helpful to have a vehicle available to haul the kayak to the next access point. 
 For safety, kayakers should avoid the narrow tubes of the Pratt Dam in Cumberland and Lincoln, R.I., said Frank Matta, president of the Blackstone River Watershed Council. ''If I had a genie, I would make some of the dams go away,'' he said. Mr. Matta, 63, said he paddled the river in the 1960s, though some thought he ''would get a disease from it.''
 An upside of the dams is that they create sweeping expanses of nearly motionless water, particularly south of Woonsocket, where a huge number of Quebecois immigrants settled in the late 1800s. Twisting downtown streets that once staged raucous Mardi Gras parties are far quieter today, but for dinner, Vintage, in an old mill, offered a lively setting for dishes like crab cakes, scallops and paella.
 Other engineering marvels awaited in Lincoln, by the Captain Wilbur Kelly House museum, where, as water dripped quietly from my paddle, the arching concrete spandrels of a viaduct for the George Washington Highway, 80 feet up, recalled a cathedral's ceiling.
 Near the museum site, which is also popular with cyclists for the Blackstone's extensive paved bike paths, Jason Dionne, a construction worker was preparing to set off in a robin's-egg-blue canoe on a father-son fishing trip.
 ''It's nice to finally have the river for recreation and not dumping'' said Mr. Dionne, 38, a lifelong Lincoln resident. ''Growing up, there weren't too many people here who got to enjoy it.''
 IF YOU GO
 Blackstone Valley Visitors Center, 175 Main Street, Pawtucket, R.I.; (800) 454-2882; www.tourblackstone.com.
 WHAT TO DO
 Slater Mill, 67 Roosevelt Avenue, Pawtucket; (401) 725-8638; www.slatermill.org.
 Blackstone River State Park, Visitor center, Interstate 295 north between Exits 9 and 10, Lincoln, R.I.; (401) 334-6720; www.riparks.com/blackstonevist.htm. 
 Kelly House Transportation Museum, off Lower River Road, Lincoln; (401) 333-0295.
 Blackstone River and Canal Heritage State Park, 287 Oak Street, Uxbridge, Mass.;(508) 278-7604, www.mass.gov/dcr/parks/central/blst.htm.
 GEAR AND SUPPLIES
 Blackstone Valley Outfitters, 2 Mendon Road, Cumberland, R.I.; (401) 312-0369; www.bvori.com. Two-person kayaks are $70 for a weekend; two singles, $140.
 Shaw's, 1500 Diamond Hill Road, Woonsocket, R.I.; (401) 765-3090.
 WHERE TO EAT
 Vintage, 4 South Main Street, Woonsocket; (401) 765-1234; www.vintageri.com.
 Beirao Cafe Restaurant, 1374 Broad Street, Central Falls, R.I.; (401) 729-9766. 
 WHERE TO STAY
 Econo Lodge, 200 Worcester-Providence Turnpike, Sutton, Mass.; (508) 865-5222, www.econolodge.com. Double rooms start at $80 a night.
 Holiday Inn Express, 194 Fortin Drive, Woonsocket; (401) 769-5000; www.holidayinnexpresswoonsocket.com. A recent computer search found rooms starting at $95 a night for a weekend in late July.
 Pillsbury House Bed & Breakfast, 341 Prospect Street, Woonsocket; (401) 766-7983; www.pillsburyhouse.com. It has four rooms from $95 to $135.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CRADLE OF INDUSTRY: Relics on the Blackstone River, far left. Canoeing in Uxbridge, Mass., left. The Slater Mill in Pawtucket, R.I., above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); TEXTILES (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); YARN & THREAD MILLS (78%); RIVERS (78%); FABRICS (78%); HISTORY (77%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (71%); FISHES (71%); FABRIC MILLS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: OWENS CORNING (53%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%)

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (53%); BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



266 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Taking Down Big Game With a Crusading Pen

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
AMERICAN RADICAL 
 The Life and Times of I. F. Stone 
 By D. D. Guttenplan 
 Illustrated. 570 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $35. 
 In the pantheon of American political journalists no one played left field like I. F. Stone. A relentless reporter who managed to work the fringes of American discourse to profound effect, Stone believed truth was not a product of negotiation, that it was not the hole in the doughnut. He was driven by an agenda -- always -- but worked until he could make his opinions come true with the force of fact. 
 For all his efforts he was mostly rewarded with suspicion and marginalization. Stone was oblivious to the relentless stalking of J. Edgar Hoover's F.B.I., or chose to act as if he were, but he eventually found himself in the middle of American intellectual discourse anyway. His roving eye landed on all manner of targets: Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal cynicism, John F. Kennedy's indifference to the inhumanity of racism, and the pointless querulousness of American Communists, even as he was accused of being a fellow traveler. 
 In ''American Radical: The Life and Times of I. F. Stone,'' D. D. Guttenplan has written a comprehensive and rigorous portrait of an intellectual lone wolf, a crusading journalist who took the disregard of the mainstream as a taunt and carved out a place in American political life through relentlessness and a small, but mighty, weekly newsletter. 
 Mr. Guttenplan, a London correspondent for The Nation, is clearly riveted by American foment and dissent from the 1920s forward and has a command of the growth and subsequent dissolution of the left that is breathtaking. It can also be mind numbing. If the reader has a deep knowledge and fanatic interest in the internecine battles between American Communists and Socialists, between Bolsheviks and Trotskyites, and among all myriad splinters on the left, this book provides an extremely detailed wiring diagram. 
 The rest of us may find ourselves drumming the pages and waiting for Stone to return. We can admire Mr. Guttenplan's historical rigor even as we are punished by it, entangled in a thicket of names, governmental and party acronyms and obscure documents. 
 The implied promise of the title -- Stone's life and times -- is sometimes half-met. We are given all manner of historical context and the agency of Stone within these events, but we never get a good, hard look at the man. He is depicted as a nimble writer and a fair-minded thinker capable of acknowledging his mistakes, yet no one other than his wife seemed able to work with him for long. 
 Was that because of his intellectual idiosyncrasies or perhaps some personal ones? Despite his impish tweaking of those he pursued, Stone was probably not a barrel of monkeys to be around, but that fact is only hinted at.
 Tectonic personal events -- an enduring marriage, professional dispossession because of his political beliefs, a long struggle with deafness -- are rendered as facts, not experiences. His wife and children are ciphers, and even the restoration of his hearing at an advanced age, which would seem to have profound implications, is dispatched in a few paragraphs. (And what are we to make of Stone's lifelong fascination with ballroom dancing, a petit-bourgeois pursuit if there ever was one?)
 But Mr. Guttenplan is exhaustive in his research and scrupulous in matters of citation. If the book suffers from his penchant for completism long after a particular nail has been pounded in, the rewards of staying with it are significant, partly because we watch Stone, who was born in 1907 and came of intellectual age during a time of rancorous political tumult, summoning facts, choosing his quarry and taking down very big game: Standard Oil, Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and Stalin all bear bite marks that drew blood.
 Calling Stone ''the patron saint of investigative reporting,'' Mr. Guttenplan says, ''If journalism was his medium, his message was unfailingly political.'' 
 After starting out at The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1927, Isadore Feinstein -- he would later change his name to I. F. Stone in a rare bit of capitulation, in this case to pervasive anti-Semitism -- went to work for The Camden Courier in 1928 and joined the Socialist Party to support the presidential campaign of Norman Thomas. Drawn by the pragmatism of socialist aims, he did not last long -- he was never much for hierarchy -- but it gave him a grounding in the folkways of movement politics. 
 As Stone's acuity on political matters increased, so did his stature. By 1933 he had moved to The New York Post, was subsequently contributing regularly to The Nation and The New Republic. He became, in Mr. Guttenplan's words, ''the New Deal's favorite radical,'' using his contacts in government and union circles to source articles and push his views on social and economic justice. A virulent anti-fascist, he banged the drum against Hitler, Franco, Mussolini and, eventually, after deciding that the socialist ideal was unrealized, Stalin. 
 As the cold war arrived, Stone went from prosecutor to pursued, receiving a visit from the State Department's security division in 1951 and being told to surrender his passport. (He never gave it up.) But even as he was tagged as a Red and a subversive, Stone's assessment of the Soviet Union, after a visit, was devastating: ''This is not a good society and it is not led by honest men.'' 
 In 1953, marginalized and effectively blacklisted, he decided to take his professional destiny in his own hands and created I. F. Stone's Weekly, a four-page newsletter that served as a forum for his attacks on racial discrimination and the excesses of McCarthyism. (The F.B.I. was one of its closest readers, surveilling its founder daily.) By the advent of the Vietnam War his subscriber list had grown to 70,000. Beginning with a devastating corrective on the prevailing wisdom concerning the Gulf of Tonkin incident, he became an avid and highly informed critic of that ill-fated conflict. In investigation after investigation he demonstrated how assassination had become a tool of American foreign policy in Cuba, Vietnam and Congo. 
 An outcast and a gadfly, he carried significant sting because he used the music of fact, not cant, to demonstrate the corruptions of American ideals. The Weekly came out, with rare exceptions, until 1971, filled to the margins with umbrage, exception and dead-bang-true reporting. 
 By 1971 Stone, approaching his 64th birthday, was once again the toast of Washington, receiving awards, encomiums and dewy-eyed coverage. 
 ''After 19 years and more than 3.5 million words, the longest essay in single-handed journalism in American history was over,'' Mr. Guttenplan writes in a deft summation of a singular career. ''I. F. Stone's pilgrimage from outcast to institution was complete.''
 Stone's own job description was equally telling: ''To write the truth, to defend the weak against the strong, to fight for justice.''
 After reading Mr. Guttenplan's extensive, loving reconstruction of Stone's outside-in approach to journalism, it might be tempting to suggest that Stone was a protoblogger, a postmodern journalist who hacked his own route to an audience long before there was something called the Internet. But his insistence on shoe leather over rhetoric has yet to be replicated in digital realms. As it is, his life and work are reminders that knowing more than anyone else is the surest way to win an argument. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: D. D. Guttenplan (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUDAH PASSOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); HISTORY (65%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: American Radical (Book); American Radical (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



267 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: The Second City Is Fast Becoming Second-Home City

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
CELEBRATING their wedding anniversary in April at the Palmer House Hilton in downtown Chicago, where they were engaged 10 years ago, Chris and Kristine Warnes knew they would be taking home beautiful memories of a luxurious weekend. They had no idea that they would be taking home a new condominium, too -- a pied-a-terre with views of the deep blue of Lake Michigan and the bustling street life of the Magnificent Mile along Michigan Avenue. 
 About a week after they returned home to the suburb of Naperville, Ill., their offer of $290,000 for a 900-square-foot loft in a former Montgomery Ward building, now called Six North Michigan, was accepted. The unit, listed at $325,000, has Italian kitchen cabinetry with granite and tile accents throughout, and access to building amenities like a theater, a gym and a heated indoor garage. 
 ''Well, of course, if we're offered something that's listed $30,000 under the customized price everybody else would have to pay, we're going to jump on that,'' Mr. Warnes said. ''For several years, we had talked about a place in the city. It will allow us to live out our dreams earlier that we thought.'' 
 After long playing second fiddle in the glamour game to coastal cities like New York and Los Angeles, Chicago has become a second- and vacation-home hot spot, fueled by its market of new condos and converted high-rise and loft buildings. Buyers are drawn to its revitalized neighborhoods, perennially strong theater scene, groundbreaking modern architecture and relative affordability.
 The interest is coming from near and far, from quiet corners of the Midwest and from overseas. Buyers like the Warneses, who have young sons, want to expose their children to city life. Others are empty-nesters who want more of a city life, like Robert Johnson, a physical therapist who runs rehabilitation clinics in and around Chicago but lives more than an hour outside the city. 
 Still, the vacation-home market has cooled considerably since the beginning of the recession and the housing crisis. The city has a ready supply of deeply discounted condos, even in blue-chip neighborhoods around downtown and on the lake. 
 But buyers are looking for and finding slivers of opportunity. And they say they are buying with some confidence, knowing that the Chicago market has generally been more tempered than those on the coasts and in the Southwest, where the housing crisis has perhaps done the most damage. 
 For the Warneses, it all started with a short walk from the hotel east to Millennium Park, that jewel of green space that earlier this decade transformed a rather barren stretch of downtown into an art, dining and entertainment destination. Looking back at the skyline, the Warneses noticed a beautiful old building advertising converted condos.
 As luck would have it, several models were open. They liked what they saw. As even greater luck would have it, on the way out they bumped into an agent, Kathleen Malone of @Properties, and she told them she had one unit that was a steal of a deal.
 ''We walked away after that just to make sure we had our figures in order and to make sure this wasn't something we were doing on a whim,'' said Mr. Warnes, 36, a project manager for a global staffing company. ''But this was an offer we couldn't refuse.''
 The Laasraoui family, whose primary home is in Lugano, Switzerland, said they wanted a modern American counterpart to the slower European country life. Chicago's downtown has been virtually reborn as a residential and arts and entertainment district over the last 15 years, and the city is a finalist to be the host city for the 2016 Olympics, a position that has only increased its international cachet. 
 ''We could have picked London, could have picked Italy or another place in Switzerland, but we like the Gold Coast,'' said Abdellatif Laasraoui, 47, referring to the area north of the Magnificent Mile where his family moved into a half-million-dollar vacation condo last year. ''There is no comparison in space or comfort. You'd have to pay 10 times more to get something comparable.'' 
 ''And,'' added Mr. Laasraoui, an executive for a steel manufacturing company, ''to commute from Chicago, it is very easy. I can go anywhere in the world from Chicago.'' 
 Mr. Johnson, 53, the empty-nester, is actually seeking a third home, a place in to complement a lake house in Michigan and a home in La Grange Park, Ill. He wants to be able to walk to his downtown office on weekdays instead of taking a train and a bus from La Grange Park. Single after a divorce, he wants to be close to the vibrant night life of the Gold Coast and other downtown areas.
 ''Tom and I are looking and we're in no rush because we want to find the right place to meet my needs,'' Mr. Johnson said, referring to his broker, Tom McGavin of Rubloff Residential Properties. Mr. Johnson wants a three-bedroom condo in a low-rise building with a private rooftop garden ''where I will be able to go outside, breathe deeply, play my guitar and sing out loud,'' he said.
 Mr. McGavin added: ''He's watching mortgage rates and prices. His concern is the whole world's concern: what's the economy doing?''
 According to a report released in April by Appraisal Research Counselors, a Chicago-based real estate analysis firm, condo projects that are seeing the most sales traffic have offered discounts in the 20 percent range. These include the South Loop development Vetro and R+D659 in the West Loop, which has even thrown in free parking. 
 But the report also found that buyers were remaining on the sidelines unless they were ''absolutely convinced that they are getting a tremendous deal.''
 The pace of sales has slowed from recent years, although spring and summer closings showed improvement over the winter's. Chicago home sales were up 16.7 percent in April compared with March, according to the Illinois Association of Realtors. The median price for both months was $220,000, down 26.7 percent from a year ago. The median price for condos in both April and May was $290,000. 
 Condo projects like the Chicago Spire, a twisting lakefront skyscraper designed by Santiago Calatrava, and the Waterview Tower, a mixed-use hotel and condo building in the Loop, have stalled. Others have been converted into rental units. Even so, thousands of new units will reach the market by the end of 2009. 
 ''I gave a bike tour of industrial Chicago to urban planning professionals from the Netherlands,'' said Rachel Weber, a professor of urban planning and policy at the University of Illinois at Chicago, ''and the substance of their questions had less to do with my talk than with residential real estate. They were all looking to scoop up affordable second homes.''
 Elizabeth Ballis, a broker with Coldwell Banker Residential Properties, helped the Laasraouis find their Gold Coast condo. She could tell them firsthand about how downtown had evolved. 
 ''I got married 40 years ago and we lived in the Loop, at 11th and Michigan,'' she said. ''There was nothing going on. People thought we were crazy.''
 Now, Ms. Ballis is working with clients from places as varied as Tucson; Austin, Tex.; and Switzerland, who all want to be part of the downtown action. ''It shows how things have changed,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TASTE OF CITY: Chris Warnes, with Hudson and Jack, and his wife live in suburban Chicago, but got a condo in a building, right, at center, by Millennium Park.(pg. C31)
 CHANGE OF SCENERY: Nancy Laasraoui, top, and daughters Mariam, center, and Yasmine, live in Switzerland but spend summers in a Gold Coast condo. Chris and Kristine Warnes's second home has views of Lake Michigan from the rooftop deck, above.(pg. C33)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (79%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); LAKES (71%); SUBURBS (70%); EMPTY NESTERS (64%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (62%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



268 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Insurgency Remains Tenacious In North Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Reporting was contributed by Abeer Mohammed, Mohammed Hussein and Amir A. al-Obeidi from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Mosul.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Now that American troops have largely pulled back from Iraq's cities, one violent region remains particularly intractable: Nineveh Province and its turbulent capital, Mosul. Even a major military offensive in the months before the withdrawal did not quell the insurgency or reduce the violence. 
 On Thursday, a twin suicide attack by bombers wearing explosive vests punctuated a recent string of attacks, a wave of violence that shows little sign of relenting. The blasts killed at least 35 people and wounded dozens more in Tal Afar, a city 40 miles west of Mosul that has been repeatedly scarred by sectarian bloodshed. It occurred the morning after two car bombs killed 12 people and wounded 30 near mosques in Mosul. 
 Those bombings, along with four others in Baghdad that killed 9 people and wounded 40, amounted to the worst eruption of violence since most American combat forces withdrew from Iraq's cities and towns ahead of a June 30 deadline that Iraq celebrated as a day of liberation and sovereignty.
 Iraqi military and police forces now have more control over security than ever before, and yet they face a tenacious insurgency in places like Nineveh and Baghdad with far less overt American combat support. 
 ''We need more security forces to protect us,'' a shopkeeper who would identify himself only as Ali said in the aftermath of an attack in the Sadr City section of Baghdad. ''We need someone to take care of us.''
 The persistent violence in Mosul and Nineveh underscores the broader turmoil afflicting Iraq. But it also reflects the region's unique mixture of insurgency and ethnic tensions between Kurds and Arabs, as well as a proliferation of criminal gangs, that makes the north the most dangerous part of the country. 
 That was supposed to change last spring, when 4,000 American troops joined more than 25,000 Iraqi security personnel to clean out Mosul's neighborhoods one by one. Just as significantly, a Sunni Arab political bloc won in January's provincial elections, giving the Arab citizens of the north proportional representation for the first time and, it was hoped, defusing antigovernment sentiment and support for insurgents. It has not turned out that way.
 ''The way the U.S. was able to beat the insurgency in the rest of Iraq is that they had the cooperation and support of the local populations,'' Samuel Parker, an Iraq expert at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington, wrote in an e-mail message. ''Until there is that societywide turn in Mosul, it's going to be very hard to put a lid on the insurgency.''
 The violence on Thursday, like many attacks, bore the signature of the Islamic State of Iraq, the umbrella insurgency group that includes Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and remains particularly active in Nineveh. Like many of the recent attacks in the region, it appears to have been aimed at Iraq's security forces.
 The attack occurred in a Shiite neighborhood in a city largely populated by Turkmen Sunnis. It began when a suicide bomber knocked on the door of a police counterterrorism investigator early Thursday and blew himself up when the man answered, killing him and his wife and children, said Nineveh's police chief, Maj. Gen. Khalid al-Hamdani. 
 As neighbors and passers-by gathered after the initial blast, a second bomber waded into the crowd 10 minutes later, he said. Many of those killed and wounded were women and children.
 Much of the death toll in Iraq these days results from large, high-profile attacks that can skew perceptions of day-to-day violence. The attacks in Mosul, though, are just as often small, directed and constant, with a toll that accumulates inexorably even as it draws less attention. 
 For three months, policemen have been killed at the rate of roughly one a day. Lawyers have been singled out and shot, as have university professors, students, government officials, retired soldiers, mothers and daughters, and even the coach of the Iraqi national karate team. 
 In all of Nineveh, 94 Iraqis were killed last month, the vast majority of them in Mosul, Iraqi security officials and employees of Nineveh's morgue said. July is already on track to be equally deadly, or worse. With its proximity to the Syrian border, a crossing point for foreign fighters, the region has long been one of the most difficult to pacify. Although initially calm after the American invasion, the region became a haven for insurgents pushed out of Baghdad and other parts of Iraq after the large influx of American troops -- the so-called surge -- began in 2007.
 The violence in Mosul has remained so intense that most American combat troops have withdrawn only to a sprawling base on the city's edge, and still conduct training missions.
 But the American commander in Nineveh, Col. Gary Volesky, said in an e-mail message before the recent violence that security had improved significantly in the past six months. ''With increased security, increased infrastructure and reduced unemployment, there have been some indications that the citizens of Mosul are turning away from insurgents,'' he said. 
 That may be true, but the violence continues. 
 No one in Nineveh is suffering more than the police and other security officers. While officers routinely die in checkpoint ambushes and roadside bombings, others have been tracked down and shot while off duty, sitting in restaurants or walking in the street with friends.
 ''The assassinations happen when policemen are on vacation,'' said Capt. Qassim Mohammed Ali, a police officer in east Mosul. ''Seven policemen have been arrested for working with the terrorist groups, giving them information about vacation days.''
 Internal investigations have revealed what many in Mosul have long suspected: infiltration by insurgents in the police force. The first of the two suicide bombers involved in Thursday's attack in Tal Afar was wearing a policeman's uniform, General Hamdani said.
 Mosul's security officers, meanwhile, are left dreading their time off. Some arrange to have relatives drive them home so no one else knows where they work. Others never leave the house.
 ''I face a huge problem with my off days,'' said Lt. Abdul-Basset al-Jubori, a 27-year-old army officer. ''Everywhere I go I have my weapon on me. This life has started to affect my kids' and my wife's lives; they start to live in fear. My wife carries a pistol in her handbag all the time. And when we move, we move at night.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraqis surveyed the damage after two car bombs were detonated near Mosul on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUJAHED MOHAMMED/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLICE FORCES (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



269 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Shuffles Top Ranks Again

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Edward J. Kelly had been diligently preparing to be the voice of Citigroup on the bank's earnings call with investors next Friday, his second in the four brief months since abruptly taking over as chief financial officer. 
 But by late last week, under pressure from federal regulators, plans were afoot to move him into an advisory position -- one in which he would have a much less prominent profile. 
 On Thursday, the bank announced its third sweep of top management in less than a year, elevating John C. Gerspach, the chief accounting officer, to Mr. Kelly's post, and reeling in an experienced outsider, Eugene M. McQuade, to sharpen its focus on traditional banking in response to concerns from Washington. 
 The shakeup highlights the uncertainties Citigroup still faces months after accepting three multibillion-dollar government bailouts: although its operating revenue appears to be stabilizing, the bank continues to grapple with large losses in its consumer and credit card business that are deepening with the recession and could hinder a return to profitability. 
 Even with few candidates interested in the job, analysts continue to question how long Citigroup's embattled chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, can remain at the company. 
 And then there is the government. Citigroup is one of the few big institutions that did not join Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and other rivals in paying back taxpayer support last month. Those banks hurried to free themselves of federal lifelines, and the influence of government that went with it. 
 While Citigroup has taken steps to reduce its size and improve finances, regulators have pushed for more proof of a turnaround. In particular, Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has intensified her scrutiny of whether the bank's management has moved fast enough to sell its troubled assets, and has enough commercial banking experience in its leadership. 
 Tensions had already been simmering between the bank and the F.D.I.C. for months. But they reached a boil in early June after Mr. Kelly expressed growing frustration with the agency, publicly calling it a ''tertiary'' regulator behind the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
 By the end of the month, the F.D.I.C. abruptly placed the finance chief's role high on a running list of concerns it wanted the troubled bank to address, a move that bank officials read as a signal they needed to replace Mr. Kelly, according to two people briefed on the situation. Citigroup officials also feared that the F.D.I.C. would put the bank on its list of troubled institutions if they did not act, these people said, a step that would raise its deposit insurance expenses and deter some customers from doing business with the company. 
 By then, Mr. Kelly had already come to believe that his remarks were turning into a flashpoint in the bank's dealings with the agency, the people briefed on the situation said, and that he had become a ''hindrance to the company.'' Shortly before heading to his Virginia farmhouse for the Fourth of July holiday, he tendered his resignation to Mr. Pandit -- a move that was quickly rejected.
 Instead, Mr. Kelly was given a new perch as vice chairman overseeing strategy and deals, making official what had been his informal role as one of Mr. Pandit's most trusted advisers. Just after Citigroup's board signed off on the switch, F.D.I.C. officials were formally notified around 7 p.m. on Wednesday, according a person with knowledge of the situation. 
 Andrew Gray, an F.D.I.C spokesman, declined to discuss the changes at Citigroup, citing the agency's policy of not commenting on the institutions it supervises. Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman, also declined to comment. 
 Within the bank, the sudden shifting of roles was seen as a way to appease F.D.I.C. concerns about the bank's leadership. Ms. Bair had recently convinced other regulators to join it in hiring an outside consulting firm to benchmark the qualification of senior Citigroup executives against their major counterparts at rival banks, according to a person with knowledge of the agency's thinking. That review is continuing.
 But outside Citigroup, investors and analysts said that removing Mr. Kelly so quickly after naming him to the post raised questions over whether Mr. Pandit was losing his grip on the company. 
 ''I'm not really sure that he is in control anymore,'' Stuart Plesser, a stock analyst at Standard & Poors, said.
 The constant turnover in the executive suite has been troubling, analysts said. Citigroup has now had five chief financial officers in five years, and senior managers keep leaving. A Barclays Capital report of the bank found that just 17 of Citigroup's 43 highest ranking executives in 2006 remain at the company. 
 Mr. Pandit had already shaken up the senior management ranks at Citigroup's investment bank this week. On Thursday, the bank said Gary L. Crittenden, its former finance chief, was leaving the company to join a private equity firm. The bank also announced a new advisory role for William R. Rhodes, a Citigroup vice chairman whom Mr. McQuade is replacing. Both moves had been in the works for at least several weeks.
 Citigroup officials said the personnel changes reflected a natural realignment that would let the bank draw upon Mr. Kelly's deal-making expertise to help streamline the company, and on Mr. Gerspach's background to run its vast finance operations. 
 ''The senior management changes I am making today will further help in positioning our company for the future,'' Mr. Pandit said in a statement. 
 Next week, Mr. Pandit plans to release separate financial results for Citi Holdings, which will contain the businesses and assets the bank plans to sell, and Citicorp, its core businesses, so that investors can judge the bank's progress. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edward J. Kelly, former chief financial officer, will focus on strategy and deal-making and have a less prominent profile.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B1)
John Gerspach, left, Citigroup's new finance chief. Gary L. Crittenden, right, another finance official, is resigning.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BAILOUTS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%); VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



270 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: UBS Digs In Its Heels on Clients' Names

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
When the Swiss bank UBS and federal prosecutors face off in a Florida courtroom on Monday, the focus will be whether UBS must disclose the identities of thousands of its American clients, but much more could be at stake as well.
 The dispute, in which the Internal Revenue Service, backed by the Justice Department, is trying to force UBS to hand over the names of 52,000 wealthy American clients suspected of tax evasion, has escalated into a showdown that has frayed relations between Switzerland and the United States, peeled back layers of Swiss banking secrecy and rattled the world's private banking industry. UBS and the Swiss have intensified their opposition this week, threatening to send more ripples through the global banking system. 
 Oswald J. Grubel, the chief executive of UBS, sent a memorandum to the bank's top executives on Thursday saying that turning over the names ''would require UBS to violate Swiss criminal law, and we simply cannot comply,'' according to a copy of the document.
 On Wednesday, the Swiss government said that it would block any move by UBS, Switzerland's largest bank and a bulwark of the country's economy, to turn over the names should it be ordered to do so. Such a decision could come as early as Monday by the judge overseeing the case. The country contends that complying with such an order would violate Swiss law. 
 ''If necessary, the blocking order is ready,'' Urs Ziswiler, the Swiss ambassador to the United States, said in an interview in New York on Wednesday. 
 Any such order could imperil the ability of UBS, the world's largest private bank and a big player in the global credit markets, to operate, as well as potentially subject executives to criminal prosecution, and the bank to sanctions, in Switzerland. 
 ''The I.R.S. summons puts UBS in an untenable position, caught between the laws of two sovereign nations,'' UBS said in a statement on Thursday. ''Honoring the I.R.S. summons would require UBS to violate Swiss criminal law.''
 Further heightening the tension, the judge overseeing the case, Alan S. Gold of Federal District Court in Miami, has ordered prosecutors and the I.R.S. to consult the Obama administration and the State Department and to explain by Sunday how far the government is willing to go if UBS refuses to disclose the names. The judge wants to know whether it would consider seizing assets of UBS in the United States or force it into receivership, a form of bankruptcy with a court-appointed trustee. 
 Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to comment on Thursday. In February, the I.R.S. sued UBS to compel it to turn over the names, just a day after UBS agreed to pay $780 million to settle criminal accusations that it had defrauded the I.R.S. by allowing wealthy Americans to hide billions of dollars in taxes in secret offshore bank accounts. The bank admitted to wrongdoing.
 Since then, the controversy has threatened to lift the veil of Swiss banking secrecy, which has driven a vast wealth-preservation industry that over decades has made Switzerland the world's largest repository of hidden wealth.
 UBS turned over about 250 client names as part of its settlement but has pushed hard to have the civil names case dropped. While the bank has legal avenues to challenge any ruling by Judge Gold, exhausting those options and still refusing to divulge the 52,000 names could subject it to indictment.
 The showdown has prompted Swiss ministers and officials to conduct an lobbying campaign in recent weeks in the corridors of the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve and K Street lobbying firms in Washington.
 As part of the campaign, Swiss officials have raised the specter of global financial instability should the civil case continue to be litigated, rather than settled, either before or after the hearing on Monday. Last month, a United States official briefed on the matter said that the Justice Department was considering a settlement.
 ''It's ongoing negotiations, and we're not talking about it,'' Mr. Ziswiler, the Swiss ambassador, said. Referring to the 52,000 names, he added: ''It's just a number. We don't know how many people have actually declared their income correctly.'' 
 Both Mr. Ziswiler and a UBS spokeswoman, Karina Byrne, said that UBS was not willing to pay a fine to settle the names case in addition to the $780 million settlement. Ms. Byrne added that a plan by UBS to raise $3.5 billion in capital, announced on June 25, had no connection to the names case and would not be used to settle it out of court.
 Referring to a possible settlement, the Swiss minister for economic affairs, Doris Leuthard, who is also vice president, said on Wednesday in an interview in New York that the longer the case lasts, ''the bigger the chance that UBS is suffering,'' adding ''financial instability could be threatened. A big bank with a severe problem will hurt the stability of the financial markets and the global economy, and this is one element that should be considered.''
 The case has taken its toll on UBS, whose core businesses also include investment and corporate banking. James Odell, general counsel for UBS's investment bank in the Americas, said Wednesday in a brief interview that ''it's an overhang that's best to get rid of.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUDGES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PRIVATE BANKING (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (96%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); UBS SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (96%); UBS (NYSE) (96%); BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



271 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Whip Inflation Now

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Over the past few decades, health care inflation has exceeded the general rise in prices by about 2.5 percent a year. These inexorably rising costs are bankrupting the nation, walloping businesses and squeezing middle-class salaries.
 Fortunately, the country now has an excellent opportunity to change that. We have a president fervently committed to reducing health care inflation. We have a budget director who is perhaps the nation's leading expert on the issue. We have a fiscal crisis staring us in the face, just to focus the mind. 
 And what is the result so far? Failure. Overwhelming, amazing failure. 
 The health care bills now winding their way through Congress would cover many of the uninsured. They would pay for most of the costs associated with that expanded coverage. But they would do little to change the fundamental incentives that drive health care inflation. 
 Health care providers would still largely rely on a fee-for-service system. They could still ignore cost-benefit analyses when deciding what treatments to provide. 
 As Alec MacGillis reported in a front-page piece in The Washington Post this week, ''All signs in Washington suggest that cost considerations will be kept at arm's length as health-care legislation moves forward.'' As my colleague David Leonhardt wrote in his column this week, ''The current health care system is hard-wired to be bloated and inefficient,'' and health care economists don't see the current bills doing enough to fix that.
 The basic problem is that the American people have gotten used to high-tech, all-everything health care, under the illusion that they don't have to pay for it and that it's always better for them. Politicians are unwilling to force voters and donors to give up that sort of system, even the parts that are ineffective. 
 There are several ideas floating around that could reduce inflation, but they are neutered in the current bills. For example, many people believe that comparative effectiveness research would bend the cost curve. The current bills would pay for that research but negate the effects by allowing everybody to ignore the findings. 
 Many people believe that ending the tax exemption on employer health benefits would reduce costs and make consumers more conscious of cost considerations. But the House has rejected that, and the Senate is walking away from even capping that tax exemption.
 Many people believe that a public plan would save money through lower administrative costs and because a government-controlled system would allow the government to ram through cost reductions. But lower administrative costs, even if they materialized, would not affect the fundamental incentives driving inflation. And the current public plan wouldn't really change the system. A Congressional Budget Office analysis of the public plan provisions in the bill from the Senate committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) projected that they would neither increase the total number of people insured nor substantially affect costs, ''largely because the public plan would pay providers of health care at rates comparable to privately negotiated rates.''
 Then there are all these mysterious deals the White House is cutting with industry groups. They sound good, but it's not clear what industry is getting in return, and they, too, would not alter the fundamental incentives.
 Keith Hennessey, the former chief of the National Economic Council, studied the HELP bill and wrote on his blog that aside from one provision, ''I can find nothing that would provide information and incentives to consumers, medical professionals, health plans, employers or government to slow the growth of long-term private health care spending.''
 Wait, it gets worse.
 The bills not only fail to reduce health care inflation, they make it harder to fix the larger fiscal mess later. They do that by taking the chits we could use to balance the overall budget and using them to cover the $1.3 trillion in new federal health spending. 
 To get our overall fiscal house in order, we're going to need to raise taxes on the rich. The House bill would use that chit to pay for expanded coverage. We're going to have to take a bite out of Medicare spending. The administration plan does that to pay for expanded coverage. We're going to have to tax people in the middle class more. The Congressional bills effectively do that by mandating coverage and then failing to subsidize middle-class consumers. But that burden, too, is to pay for new coverage.
 Instead of brightening the fiscal picture, these bills make it immeasurably worse.
 Health care inflation is not some optional side issue that can be left out of reform. It is the core problem that undermines the viability of the health care system, the federal budget and the economy as a whole. Maybe the administration will provide some last-minute solution in conference or somewhere else. But right now the prospects don't look good. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX LAW (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



272 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: NBC Reveals Displeasure As U.S.O.C. Unveils Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR; Katie Thomas contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The head of NBC Sports said Thursday that he broke off talks in April about combining the Olympic channel that it partly owns with the one being planned by the United States Olympic Committee.
 ''There were conversations on and off for at least a year, and we took it off the table,'' said Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Sports. In that plan, Universal Sports, NBC's joint venture with InterMedia Partners, would have merged with the United States Olympic Network, which the U.S.O.C. said Wednesday will begin in 2010.
 ''It would have been much richer for the American viewer,'' Ebersol said in a telephone interview. He said he was disappointed and that because they were ''such long-term partners,'' he had hoped ''that they would have paid more attention to our bid and a channel that would have had a better chance of succeeding.'' 
 The U.S.O.C. chose Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator, as its partner. Comcast will be giving the network broad digital basic distribution.
 U.S.O.C. officials said they could not find financial common ground with NBC.
 ''We made every effort to stay engaged with them and find an arrangement that was economically and strategically viable for all parties,'' said Norm Bellingham, the committee's chief operating officer.
 The timing of the U.S.O.C.'s plan was condemned as hasty Wednesday by Richard Carrion, an International Olympic Committee executive board member from Puerto Rico. On Thursday, the I.O.C. issued a statement that further condemned the American committee for acting ''unilaterally'' by announcing its network ''before we had a chance to consider together the ramifications.'' The statement continued, ''The proposed channel raises complex legal and contractual issues and could have a negative impact on our relationships with other Olympic broadcasters,'' including NBC.
 Ebersol said that this latest I.O.C.-U.S.O.C. dispute -- a few months after the two organizations reached a temporary truce over the distribution of television and sponsorship revenue -- could have ramifications on Chicago's bid to host the 2016 Summer Games. 
 ''This so unnecessarily reopens all the wounds,'' Ebersol said. ''Chicago will be impacted because the electorate that will decide will wonder what the U.S.O.C. is up to and what the urgency was.'' The I.O.C. is to vote on the bids by Chicago, Tokyo, Madrid and Rio de Janeiro on Oct. 2 in Copenhagen.
 Stephanie Streeter, the acting chief executive of the U.S.O.C., said that she believed the network's approach, and its grass-roots support of the Olympic movement, ''is in line with what the bid is trying to do.'' 
 The timing of the U.S.O.C.'s network announcement also surprised Skip Gilbert, chief executive of USA Triathlon. He said that he and the leaders of other Olympic sports' national governing bodies were thrilled at the prospect of an Olympic network, but said ''this was dropped on us without any input or feedback.'' 
 Gilbert, who is the chairman of the National Governing Bodies Association, said he is preparing a list of questions about the network for Streeter. He and his colleagues want to know more about how thoroughly the U.S.O.C. researched consumer demand for the network and whether this move signals a shift in the organization's core mission, toward becoming a media organization.
 Bellingham said that it would have been wrong to solicit input from the governing bodies while negotiating the elements of its deal with Comcast. ''There's still a great deal to be done, and we're very encouraged already by the responses'' from those organizations, he said.
 Ultimately, this is a fight between the influence of NBC, which has poured billions of dollars into televising the Summer and Winter Games, and the U.S.O.C., which wants to build a valuable TV asset but lacks a media infrastructure. In the middle is the I.O.C., which has done business with NBC in the United States almost exclusively since 1992. 
 In its plan, the U.S.O.C. is far more focused than NBC on exposing the least-seen sports to viewers.
 ''I question its commercial viability absent the major sports,'' Ebersol said of the U.S.O.C.'s plan. 
 In 1999, he said, he and Juan Antonio Samaranch, then the I.O.C. president, talked about starting an Olympic channel. ''We'd do it first in the U.S. and it would be a model for the rest of the world,'' he said. But subsequent research found that ''less than one-tenth of 1 percent'' of those surveyed showed any interest in such a channel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%); INTERMEDIA PARTNERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD L CARRION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



273 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: As Ireland's Boom Ends, Job Seekers Revive a Well-Worn Path to New York

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
He came to the United States in 1996 to paint houses and work in construction. Like many of his fellow Irishmen, he returned home soon after to ride the Celtic Tiger, the economic boom that turned his once-struggling country into one of Europe's great success stories and allowed him to start a construction company.
 But now Niall, 34, is nursing a midday beer in an Irish pub in the Bronx, out of work and hoping to find any job at all.
 ''I'll do anything,'' he says. 
 The Irish, it appears, are coming to America again. Niall, who asked that his last name not be published because he intended to work illegally, is part of a fresh surge of immigrants who in recent months have fled Ireland as it suffered a sudden economic reversal. They have traveled here in search of employment, like generations of Irish before them and, in some cases, like their own younger selves. 
 Many have been making their way to the Bronx and Queens neighborhoods that became popular with the Irish who arrived in the last big wave of immigration, in the 1980s and '90s, before Ireland's prosperity slowed the influx and drew many home. 
 ''I couldn't sit around any longer doing nothing,'' said Niall, just nine days off the plane from Dublin. In spite of rising unemployment in the United States, he and other newcomers say the job market here seems rosy compared with the meager offerings in Ireland, where the jobless rate has soared to nearly 12 percent. ''It still seems that if you push yourself enough,'' he said, ''then you will find something.'' 
 It is impossible to know the size of the latest Irish migration because many of the immigrants, like Niall, are arriving on tourist visas and planning to stay and work illegally.
 But Irish-American business owners, officials at the city's construction unions and workers at advocacy centers that cater to Irish immigrants say they have seen a sharp increase in the number of new arrivals seeking jobs and other help. Landlords in heavily Irish neighborhoods report that applications for rental apartments have jumped this year, and Irish pubs and restaurants seem busier than they were a few months ago. 
 From his perch as the founder of The Irish Voice, a weekly newspaper published in New York, Niall O'Dowd has had a good view of what he calls the Irish ''ebb and flow'' over the past few decades. He sees the latest uptick reflected in the paper, which in recent months has been selling out at newsstands a day earlier than normal -- probably, he theorizes, because newcomers are scrambling for classified advertisements to find jobs and housing.
 ''It's part of the inherent genetic makeup of the Irish people that they leave at various times, when times are rough,'' Mr. O'Dowd said. ''It's like an admission of defeat, in a unique Irish way.'' 
 For some, the diaspora feels more like a homecoming. The close-knit quality of New York's Irish neighborhoods makes the transition less trying, several recent immigrants said.
 ''It was very nice to come back to the Irish community,'' said Conor, 27, who arrived in New York several weeks ago after finding no employment in Australia, where many out-of-work Irish have migrated in recent months. He, too, did not want his last name published because he feared detection by the immigration authorities.
 Four years ago, Conor worked in New York on a special temporary visa given to recent college graduates. This time he arrived on a tourist visa, and through connections he made playing Gaelic football, he quickly found a construction job and an apartment in southeastern Yonkers, one of several Irish enclaves in the area, like Woodside, Sunnyside and Maspeth in Queens.
 Conversations on the sidewalks of his neighborhood and adjoining Woodlawn, in the Bronx, are flavored with brogues from all regions of Ireland. Stores with green awnings sell Irish gifts and crafts, Irish coffee and specialty food from Ireland. And the national predilection for a good pint is evident, with pubs cheek by jowl along McLean and Katonah Avenues, the main commercial boulevards.
 ''It's nice to have some familiar traditions you're used to at home,'' Conor said.
 But not everyone has found it easy to get work. The competition is fierce, not only from other newly arriving Irish, but also from Americans freshly out of work. 
 Ciaran Staunton, an advocate for changes to immigration rules for the Irish and the owner of O'Neill's, a pub in Midtown Manhattan, said that a year ago about one Irish immigrant walked into his bar each week looking for work. Now he is seeing four or five a day.
 Orla Kelleher, the executive director of a center in Yonkers that helps Irish immigrants find lodging and work, said the center had received inquiries from an average of about 10 newly arrived Irish per week during the past several months, double the number during the same period last year. But she acknowledged that they represented a tiny fraction of the new immigrant population.
 Ms. Kelleher said the biggest change among the newcomers helped by her organization, the Aisling Irish Community Center, was how long they intended to stay. ''Most are saying, 'Depends on work' or 'As long as I can stay,' '' she said. ''Before it was kind of like, 'Maybe three months.' It was their call, it was their choice, whereas now they don't have a choice.'' 
 Another change, she said, is the large number of men who have left their wives and children in Ireland to find work in New York. ''The probability is that they have a beautiful four- or five-bedroom house back in Ireland, and that's probably strangling them now,'' she said. 
 For Niall, the return to the United States was bittersweet. He first came to the United States fresh out of secondary school, with several friends, to work seasonal jobs in Boston and on Martha's Vineyard. They moved back to Ireland the following year, 1997, to cash in on the soaring economy. 
 In Dublin, Niall said, he started a construction company that eventually grossed more than $1 million a year. He married and had a daughter. ''We got a good nine years out of it,'' he said. 
 But last year, as Ireland's boom went bust, his business dried up. He was forced to lay off his employees, sell his company's assets and sign up for jobless benefits. ''I went from employing 22 guys to not even being able to get a job myself,'' he said. ''Overnight!'' 
 After being mostly unemployed for a year, accumulating a tax debt of more than $100,000 and having his marriage end in divorce, he decided to try his luck in the United States. He settled on New York because he knew many people here and understood how to navigate the job market. And New York was a relatively short flight from home.
 ''You always go to where the Irish are,'' he said, ''because who else are you going to depend on to get your foot on the ladder?'' 
 Since his arrival, he has slept on the couch of an Irish friend in Woodlawn. He has called all his Irish contacts in search of employment and answered help-wanted ads on Craigslist.
 He landed a job working on a construction crew for a fellow Irishman. But he was getting paid only $100 for a 12-hour day without rest breaks. ''I didn't come here to get exploited by the Irish,'' he said. ''I'd be better off going home.'' 
 He quit after a few miserable days and signed up to drive a pedicab in Manhattan. His longing to see his 6-year-old daughter has become crushing, he said, but he said he was determined to continue scraping for odd jobs in the hope that something more solid would come along.
 He has vowed to give it a year. 
 ''Ifsomething doesn't happen by then,'' he said, ''I'm either doing something very wrong or there's just nothing out there, and I wouldn't be bothered to try anymore.'' 
 In the meantime, he said, the alternative -- returning to Ireland -- is not in the cards. ''There's no reason to go back,'' he said. ''It's pure catastrophe.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Orla Kelleher said more Irish immigrants were seeking help from her organization, in Yonkers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ciaran Staunton, left, said four or five Irish were looking for work each day at his pub, in Manhattan. People in need of jobs are snapping up Niall O'Dowd's newspaper, The Irish Voice.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FRED CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%); NEWSSTANDS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



274 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
NYC SOCIAL SPORTS CLUB
 Depending on one's individual high school gym class experience, the idea of playing dodge ball intentionally, and even paying for the opportunity, may sound horrifying. There were a few people who, after hearing that I had joined a club to revisit that high school standby, were flabbergasted. But playing with the New York City Social Sports Club is not going to tax your athletic prowess too much. (Above, a club team with the ball in play.) 
 The club, which also offers inner-tube water polo, broom ball, ultimate Frisbee and other games in several locations around the city, was created five years ago by Amy Short, who came to New York from her native Baltimore in order to start the organization. Ms. Short, who had discovered a similar league in her hometown and ''thought it was so great that I could go and play soccer and not be expected to be good at it,'' did not intend to attract serious athletes. ''The higher purpose of this league is to help build community in New York City,'' she said recently. ''New York can be a lonely place.'' 
 This is not to say the games, or at least the one I played, are completely devoid of high school heroes reliving glory days. (I earned a stinging red spot on my chest after getting creamed by a colossus on the opposing team my first time out.) But for the most part couch potatoes and weekend warriors appeared to outnumber the jocks. Though both types of players seem serious about the games, the focus is clearly on the social aspect of the weekly get-togethers. (Registration gives you access to post-game drink specials at select bars.)
 The summer season for each sport will begin in the next couple of weeks, starting with inner-tube water polo on Sunday, and last-minute registration is still an option. 
 Because the club is celebrating its fifth anniversary, a big outdoor party is being planned for Aug. 8, as well as five-week mini-seasons of dodge ball and kickball later this summer that will cost just $5 for the first 365 registrants. (The fall season will follow, beginning the week of Sept. 14.) 
 For anyone curious but too skittish to commit to a full season, there is also ''drop-in dodge ball,'' providing an opportunity to play high school hero for just a game or two on select dates. (212-929-5353, nycssc.com; $100 per player for full seasons, with a 25 percent discount for unemployed New Yorkers; $15 for drop-in dodge ball.) STEVEN McELROY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS GOSTEV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICAL EDUCATION (90%); WATER POLO (89%); SPORTS (78%); WATER SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SOCCER (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



275 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Families Increasing, U.S. Finds

BYLINE: By ANDREA FULLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Several years of progress in reducing the number of chronically homeless people ended last year, a study released Thursday by the Department of Housing and Urban Development shows.
 While the numbers of individual homeless people remained relatively flat, the number of people in families that were homeless rose by 9 percent from Oct. 1, 2007, to Sept. 30, 2008, the report found. 
 Last year, the Bush administration reported a decrease of nearly 30 percent in the number of chronically homeless from 2005 to 2007, in part because of financing intended to provide housing for homeless people with addictions and disabilities. Family homelessness also decreased almost 20 percent during that time. 
 The report released Thursday showed that 1.6 million people lived in transitional housing or in a shelter in 2008, slightly more than in the previous year. But families now make up about one-third of that number. 
 ''So I guess the good news is that homelessness didn't go way up,'' said Nan Roman, president of the National Alliance to End Homelessness, a nonprofit group. ''The bad news is that since it had been going down, this is a change in the wrong direction.'' 
 In a news conference on Thursday, the housing secretary, Shaun Donovan, emphasized the need to continue to focus on chronic homelessness. ''But I do think we also need to advance strategies around homeless families and to increase funding for homeless families,'' Mr. Donovan said.
 The department released $1.2 billion of stimulus money on Thursday to be used for services like rent relief and housing relocation for the homeless.
 The report also found that the percentage of homeless people who used residential programs in suburban areas increased to 32 percent in 2008 from 23 percent in 2007. 
 ''I think that the stimulus money is coming at the right time,'' said Michael Stoops, the executive director of the National Coalition for the Homeless, a nonprofit group. ''Our homeless infrastructure is really overwhelmed right now. Our shelters are full. We're not set up to take many more people, and that's why keeping people in their homes is the ultimate solution.'' 
 Mr. Donovan said that the full effects of the economic crisis on homelessness were yet to be determined. ''This data, given the timing of it, does not reflect the full brunt of the economic crisis and the housing crisis that we've been through,'' he said.
 Ms. Roman said homelessness tended to be a lagging indicator of an economic crisis.
 ''We wouldn't necessarily have expected to be seeing any significant impacts from the recession until next year, and the next year,'' she said. ''So it's a little disturbing to see the trends are already starting to reverse.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (98%); FAMILY (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); CITIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SUBURBS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



276 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
CLASSICAL
 Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music. 
 Opera
 Classical Music
 (Allan Kozinn)
 (Vivien Schweitzer)
 (Kozinn)
 (Schweitzer)
 METROPOLITAN OPERA SUMMER RECITAL SERIES (Monday) For more than 40 years, veteran opera buffs in New York looked forward to the Metropolitan Opera's summer series presenting concert performances of complete operas in parks across all the boroughs of the city. Times have changed. Instead of complete opera performances, the Met will present, starting on Aug. 29, a 10-day festival of high-definition screenings of Met productions, shown free in Lincoln Center Plaza. In addition, starting on Monday night, the Met begins a series of six free recitals, with locations in all five boroughs. Recitals of arias accompanied by piano is not the same as concert operas with the full Met orchestra and chorus. Still, the kick-off recital at SummerStage in Central Park offers the baritone Paulo Szot, the Tony Award-winning star of the Lincoln Center Theater production of ''South Pacific,'' as well as the gifted soprano Lisette Oropesa and the rising young tenor Alek Shrader. The pianist is Vlad Iftinca. At 8 p.m., SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; free. (Anthony Tommasini) 
 'IL TROVATORE' (Wednesday) Vincent La Selva, that tireless and insightful Verdi champion, entered the annals of opera history when he and his scrappy New York Grand Opera company presented the complete 28 Verdi operas, in chronological order, in free outdoor productions at SummerStage in Central Park, ending in 2001 with ''Falstaff.'' The productions may have been ragtag and the singing variable, but Mr. La Selva's passion for Verdi came through, and audiences flocked to these events. Despite economic hard times for all performing arts institutions, the New York Grand Opera continues. On Wednesday Mr. La Selva leads a modestly staged free production of Verdi's ''Trovatore'' at the Naumburg Bandshell in Central Park. Liora Michelle sings Leonora, and Alejandro Olmedo sings Manrico. (The second production of the season will be Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' on Aug. 12.) At 7:30 p.m., midpark at 70th Street, newyorkgrandopera.org. (Tommasini) 
 BARGEMUSIC (Friday through Sunday) There are few better places to hear chamber music in New York than this floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River. Once a coffee barge, it offers the intimacy that chamber music demands, as well as a wonderful view of Lower Manhattan through the bay windows that make up the back wall of the stage. On Friday night the superb Western Wind a cappella vocal sextet performs two comedies written four centuries apart, but each composed as a set of madrigals. The works, Adriano Banchieri's ''Barca di Venetia per Padova'' (1605) and Eric Salzman's ''Jukebox in the Tavern of Love'' (2008), are staged by Valeria Vasilevski. The program on Saturday and Sunday is more conventional: the cellist Colin Carr and the pianist Thomas Sauer play cello sonatas by Mendelssohn and Brahms, as well as works by Schumann. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing near the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org. Friday: $40; $35 for 65+; $20 for students. Saturday and Sunday: $35 ; $30 for 65+; $20 for students. 
 CARAMOOR (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) This lively summer festival takes place at a genteel estate outside the city. On Friday in the Spanish Courtyard, the mezzo soprano Susan Graham (accompanied by Brian Zeger) presents ''Un Frisson Francais: A Century of French Song,'' a program that includes works from 20 composers, including Bizet, Franck, Poulenc, Messiaen, Duparc and Bachelet. On Saturday in the Venetian Theater, the dynamic young cellist Alisa Weilerstein plays Haydn with the Orchestra of St. Luke's. On Sunday in the Venetian Theater, the Brentano String Quartet play Monteverdi, Haydn and Beethoven. As part of the Sonidos Latinos festival, the pianist Jorge Luis Prats performs music by Villa-Lobos, Cervantes, Farinas and Granados on Thursday in the Spanish Courtyard. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 4:30 p.m.; Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-1252, caramoor.com; $35 and $45 on Friday; $15 to $70 on Saturday; $15 to $45 ($10 for lawn seats) on Sunday; $15 and $25 on Thursday. 
 KRONOS QUARTET (Thursday) As part of Celebrate Brooklyn!, the iconoclastic Kronos Quartet shares a bill at Prospect Park with Luminescent Orchestrii, a group described as a ''Gypsy punk string ensemble.'' The Kronos offers its usual eclectic mix, including works by art-rockers (the Icelandic rock band Sigur Ros; Bryce Dressner, the guitarist for the Clogs; and a Palestinian group, Ramallah Underground), as well as culture-crossing scores and arrangements by Michael Gordon, Ram Narayan, Missy Mazzoli, J. G. Thirlwell, Jacob Garchik, Lev Zhurbin and Osvaldo Golijov. At 7:30 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882, celebratebrooklyn.org; suggested donation, $3. (Kozinn) 
 NEW YORK GUITAR SEMINAR (Friday through Sunday) Now in its ninth year, the New York Guitar Seminar at Mannes College the New School for Music offers master classes, workshops and public concerts. On Friday at 4:30 p.m. the Argentine guitarist Pedro Baez presents a concert lecture, ''Guitar in the Pampas,'' with works by Piazzolla and other composers from Argentina, and in the evening Eduardo Fernandez gives a recital that includes music by Bach, Giuliani, Mertz, Barrios and Ginastera. The Saturday schedule is devoted to duets. It begins at 9 a.m. with a concert lecture about the Latin American guitar and violin repertory, by the Ars Duo. A second concert lecture, at 4:30 p.m., by the Duo Cantabile, explores music for guitar and voice. The faculty recital is a split bill, with the Brasil Guitar Duo on the first half, and the Tibagui Trio, from Colombia, after the intermission. The seminar ends with a participants' concert on Sunday at noon. Concerts are at 7:30 p.m., 150 West 85th Street, Manhattan, (212) 580-0210, Ext. 4883, mannes.edu/guitar; $15. 
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Friday, Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Fresh from playing a weighty Mahler symphony during its final concerts with Lorin Maazel as music director, the Philharmonic is relaxing into summer with its Summertime Classics series, led by the jovial Bramwell Tovey. On Friday he leads a French program featuring Berlioz's ''Corsaire Overture'' and Ravel's ''Bolero,'' and the mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves singing arias from Bizet's ''Carmen'' and Saint-Saens's ''Samson and Delilah.'' The orchestra decamps to the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts to repeat the program on Saturday. On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Alan Gilbert, the incoming music director, will entertain the masses in local parks, conducting Mozart's ''Jupiter'' Symphony and Beethoven's Symphony No. 7. Friday at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center; Saturday at 3 p.m., Bethel Woods, 200 Hurd Road, Bethel, N.Y., BethelWoodsLive.org; Tuesday at 8 p.m., Great Lawn, Central Park; Wednesday at 8 p.m., Prospect Park, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn; Thursday at 8 p.m., Van Cortlandt Park, Broadway near West 251st Street, the Bronx, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $24 to $54 on Friday; Saturday, $45 to $105 for Pavilion seats, and $25 for adults and $10 for age 17 and under (accompanied by an adult) for lawn seats; Tuesday through Thursday, free. 
 TANGLEWOOD FESTIVAL (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday) There's plenty of interest this week at this prestigious musical retreat, snug in the luxuriantly green Berkshire hills. On Friday Herbert Blomstedt conducts Nielson's ''Helios'' Overture, Brahms's Symphony No. 4 and Emanuel Ax in Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 4. On Saturday James Levine conducts Act III of Wagner's ''Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg,'' with soloists including the tenors Matthew Polenzani and Johan Botha, the mezzo soprano Maria Zifchak, the bass-baritone James Morris and the soprano Hei-Kyung Hong. Mr. Blomstedt returns on Sunday to lead Joshua Bell in Bruch's Violin Concerto No. 1 and Dvorak's Symphony No. 8. The Catalan gamba master Jordi Savall takes the spotlight on Tuesday with his period ensemble Le Concert des Nations, playing Lully, Biber, Corelli, Handel and Boccherini. On Wednesday Mr. Savall, the ensemble and the actor F. Murray Abraham will present a program called ''Stage Music in the Plays of William Shakespeare,'' featuring Purcell's ''Fairy Queen'' and Locke's music for ''The Tempest.'' Friday and Saturday at 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 2:30 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 8 p.m.; Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, bso.org; $9 to $89 on Friday; $18 to $89 on Saturday; $19 to $99 on Sunday; $17 to 51 on Tuesday and Wednesday (including lawn seats). (Schweitzer) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York Guitar Seminar: Joao Luiz, left, and Douglas Loa of Brasil Guitar Duo perform in this program of concerts, workshops and master classes at Mannes College the New School for Music.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN McNEIL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (94%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



277 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SCHNELLING, ANTHONY (TONY) H. N.

 BODY:
SCHNELLING--Anthony (Tony) H. N.,Founder and CEO of Bridge Associates LLC, a Noted Turnaround and Restructuring Firm, dies at 62. Tony Schnelling spent his life crossing and then creating bridges. He rode through the Khyber Pass at 12 and when he was 42, he spent three months riding horseback in Mongolia, ultimately convincing the herders that American men could not only ride but also wrestle. He spoke six languages fluently. His facility with languages, including multiple dialects of German, allowed him to bring a bit of home to a German woman who found herself waiting tables in Boise, Idaho. 
While at college, he bridged the chasm between athletics and academia by graduating from Swarthmore College while being recognized as an All American soccer player. After earning an MBA from Harvard University in 1972, he built a bridge to renewed profitability for the faltering family printing business. Tony then realized he needed a new challenge and went to Fordham Law School at the age of 41, graduating cum laude. After law school, Tony joined the New York law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, where his practice encompassed both general corporate and insolvency law. He represented corporate debtors, secured lenders and creditors in bankruptcy cases and out-of-court restructurings in a variety of jurisdictions and industries in the United States and Europe. But again he saw another path. In 1997, he founded a boutique financial consulting firm aptly enough named Bridge Associates LLC specializing in advising businesses in all aspects of financial restructuring. Over the next decade, he built the firm into a leading professional services organization focused on providing advisory, crisis and interim management and litigation support. He also acted as a trustee in a number of cases, leading the recovery of tens of millions of dollars for creditors. Tony's engagements as a turnaround and restructuring specialist included such high profile cases as Refco, Heilig-Meyers and Conseco Finance to name just a few. But even as a re-structuring professional, Tony continued to build bridges, including one in Calpine, Inc., where he was retained as a Court appointed expert by the Honorable Burton Lifland and eventually bridged the seemingly insurmountable gap between the numerous constituencies leading to a consensual resolution. At the time of his death, the firm had seven partners and 40 professionals in offices located in New York, NY; Tulsa, OK; Chicago, IL; Dallas, TX; Cleveland, OH; Nashville, TN and Tampa, FL. Tony never stopped tapping out messages and making calls on his omnipresent Blackberry. From his beloved home in Amenia, New York, he worked on client and firm matters until the time of his death, taking conference calls from his bedroom, and continuing to provide sage counsel and strategy to clients and colleagues until the end. When long time friend and partner, Carl Young, asked Tony to take it easy, Tony's answer was, "Carl, I am going to be asleep for a long time - this is more fun." David N. Phelps, another of Tony's partners, stated, "Not only in business, but in every aspect of his life, he was loved by a wide range of people and admired by an even bigger circle. I know I speak for all of his partners, colleagues, clients and friends when I say we will miss him dearly." Tony was described by those who were close to him as a visionary who warned about the current economic crisis, but who also had a gift to see novel and innovative solutions, where others saw problems and roadblocks. "He could look at an abandoned paper mill sitting on top of a toxic waste site and could see a recreational marina," said Louis Robichaux, a partner of Tony's. Even after leaving the practice of law, Tony continued to strengthen the connection between law and business, becoming an Adjunct Professor at Fordham University School of Law, as well as a member of the School's Board of Directors. Additionally, he founded the Anthony Schnelling Scholarship Fund, awarded to students entering law school after being in the workforce for several years. He also taught at Columbia University's School of Business in New York and at the Jones Graduate School at Rice University in Houston. He served as the Vice President of Development for the American Bankruptcy Institute and was a member of the organization's Board of Directors. He was recently elected by his peers as a Fellow of the American College of Bankruptcy. Tony is a past member of the Board of Directors of The Pomfret School and was also a long-term supporter of Canine Companions for Independence, which honored him with their Hearts and Heroes Award for his fund raising efforts. There are many words to describe Tony but his wife, Bettina Whyte put it best. "Tony was amazing. In his life, in his work, in his intellectual abilities, in his compassion, in his commitment to friends and family - he was simply amazing." He is survived by his wife, Bettina M. Whyte, and his mother, Emily Leeser. He also leaves behind his half-sister, Eva Claire Schnelling of Houndstooth, England. In lieu of flowers, the family has asked that donations be made to The Anthony Schnelling Lectureship Series in Commercial Bankruptcy at Fordham University School of Law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (69%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (68%); LITIGATION (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); EXPERT WITNESSES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); ATHLETES (54%); SOCCER (54%)

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (91%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: CNO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MONGOLIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



278 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Penny-Pinching Marred Retail Sales Yet Again

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
The nation's stores reported another month of dreary sales declines, wiping out any hope of a recovery in retailing in the near future. 
 On Thursday, the industry posted a 4.9 percent sales decline in June, in contrast to a 1.9 percent increase a year ago, according to Thomson Reuters, which said the decline capped the longest negative streak on record. 
 Frugality among consumers has been hurting retailers for months, and in June sales were also reduced by incessant rain and grim jobs reports. Mall stores said deep discounting was rampant. And to make matters worse, retailers faced challenging year-over-year sales comparisons because this June there were no tax rebate checks to help bolster shopping. 
 (Wal-Mart, which has been performing well all year, used to help lift the total industry number, but in April it stopped reporting monthly sales figures.)
 Chilly, soggy weather on the East Coast did nothing to inspire summer clothes shopping. Teenage apparel chains reported the worst declines.
 Sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health known in the industry as same-store sales, fell at Abercrombie & Fitch (down 32 percent compared with the period a year ago); Zumiez (down 19.3 percent); Children's Place and Limited Brands (both down 12 percent); Wet Seal (down 11.1 percent); American Eagle Outfitters (down 11 percent); Gap (down 10 percent) and Hot Topic (down 7.9 percent). 
 ''That doesn't set us up well as we head into back to school,'' said Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics, a research company. 
 The back-to-school period is considered one of the most important shopping seasons, and an early indictor of the health of the critical Christmas shopping period. Still, back-to-school is weeks away and analysts typically assess the season based on August and September retail sales. June and July tend to be clearance months.
 Analysts expected weak June sales. And in July they are prepared for more of the same, especially since stimulus checks were also doled out last July. They think things will get better, though, after that. 
 ''June for many retailers was the most difficult comparison for the year,'' said Bob Drbul, a retailing analyst with Barclays Capital.
 The International Council of Shopping Centers, an industry group, estimated that in July sales at stores open at least a year would decline about 5 percent. 
 All department stores that reported June sales posted declines. In the specialty retail stores segment of Neiman Marcus, which includes Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman stores, sales fell 20.8 percent. 
 Sales at Nordstrom declined 10 percent. 
 Saks fared better than its high-end competitors, posting a 4.4 percent decline that was in part the result of shifting a designer sale into June. 
 Sales declined 14 percent at Dillard's; 8.9 percent at Macy's; 8.2 percent at J. C. Penney; 8 percent at Bon-Ton and Stein Mart; and 5.6 percent at Kohl's.
 T. J. Maxx and Ross Stores performed much better, posting 4 percent and 1 percent sales increases, respectively.
 Over all, teenage retailing was among the worst performing sectors, declining 13.5 percent, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The most notable exceptions were, as expected, Buckle and Aeropostale, the affordably priced niche teenage apparel chains that have been doing well all year. 
 Buckle's sales rose 9.6 percent. 
 Aeropostale said it had record June sales, posting a 12 percent increase. 
 And there were some other sprinklings of good news. J. C. Penney, for instance, raised its second-quarter earnings guidance to a loss of 8 to 12 cents a share from a loss of 15 to 25 cents.
 Bill Dreher, senior retailing analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities, said J. C. Penney -- along with Kohl's, Macy's and Saks -- is positioned to take market share.
 Still, the over all picture was uninspiring. The Goldman Sachs retail composite index, which looks at a different sampling of retailers than Thomson Reuters, declined 6.7 percent, in contrast to a 3.9 percent increase for the period a year ago. 
 Even discount chains struggled. At Costco, which was hurt by lower gasoline prices and foreign exchange rates, sales fell 6 percent. The chain said in a recorded telephone message for investors that food and sundries were its best sellers. 
 Sales of nonfood, discretionary items were soft, including cameras, navigation devices and cellphones. Even summer staples proved disappointing: cooler June temperatures hurt sales of air-conditioners. 
 In yet another sign that consumers are hiding out at home, televisions were the big exception in the discretionary category, with unit sales up 50 percent year-over-year. 
 BJ's Wholesale Club, also hurt by lower fuel prices, reported a 7.5 percent decline.
 Sales at Target fell 6.2 percent. 
 Housing values are still depressed and credit remains tight. A report by Thomson Reuters on Thursday said the biggest threat to retail sales was not the weather or last year's rebate checks, but the unemployment rate. 
 ''If consumers feel this number will be in the double digits, as is being speculated,'' an analyst, Jharonne Martis, wrote in the report, ''consumer spending will continue to deteriorate.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sales at the warehouse club Costco fell 6 percent in June. Above, a Mountain View, Calif., store.
An Abercrombie & Fitch store in San Jose, Calif. The chain's June sales declined 32 percent.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Retail Sales in June: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the five weeks that ended July 4, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); AEO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



279 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CHINA'S PRESIDENT PROMISES TO PUNISH AGITATORS OF RIOTS
 In his first comments on the riots in China's northwest, President Hu Jintao promised harsh punishment for those involved in the disturbances, which killed at least 156 people. PAGE A4
 AT LEAST 24 AFGHANS KILLED AS THE TALIBAN GAIN AREA 
 A truck explosion killed 24 people, including 16 children, in Afghanistan, local officials said. Also, reports said an Afghan district had fallen to the Taliban. PAGE A8 
 EGYPTIAN PRESIDENT'S PLANS
 Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, is 81 years old and appears to be frail, but there is still no clear plan for a successor. PAGE A10 
 Pakistanis May Return to Swat A9 
 French Children of World War II A6
 U.S. Releases Iranians in Iraq A9 
 Honduran Rivals Meet A12 
 National
 LAWS FORCE SEX OFFENDERS INTO SHANTYTOWN IN MIAMI
 There used to be four or five sex offenders living under a bridge in Miami. Now, there are at least 70. The men were pushed there by laws governing where they can and cannot live, which have become the subject of a lawsuit. PAGE A13 
 C.I.A. REVIEWS PROCEDURE
 The Central Intelligence Agency is conducting a review of how it briefs Congress on secret programs, intelligence officials said, after the agency's director admitted that the C.I.A. did not inform Congress of an unidentified program. PAGE A17 
 Increase in Homeless Families A14 
 Burris Won't Run in 2010 A15 
 Senator's Parents Paid Mistress A15 
 New York
 NEW WAVE OF JOB SEEKERS FROM A SLUMPING IRELAND
 The Irish, it appears, are coming to America again. A surge of immigrants who left Ireland in recent months as it suffered an economic reversal have made their way to the Bronx and Queens. PAGE A19 
 BRONX ARTS LEADER'S LEGACY
 Bill Aguado is tone deaf, colorblind and arguably the biggest champion of the arts in the Bronx. After 30 years as director of the Bronx Council on the Arts, Mr. Aguado, 63, has retired. He leaves behind a network of creative institutions. PAGE A18 
 Business
 STAKES COULD BE HIGH 
 In Showdown With UBS
 When the Swiss bank UBS and federal prosecutors face off in a Florida courtroom on Monday, the focus will be on whether UBS must name its American clients, but much more could be at stake as well. PAGE B1
 EXECUTIVE SHIFT AT CITIGROUP
 Citigroup elevated its chief accounting officer to chief financial officer, and hired an outsider to sharpen its traditional banking. PAGE B1 
 SEE NO EVIL, PAY NO PENALTY
 After defrauding buyers and the government and lying to shareholders, two top executives at Beazer Homes USA have kept their jobs. High & Low Finance by Floyd Norris. PAGE B1 
 AGAINST MORE FED POWER
 Two economists told Congress that it would be a mistake to give the Federal Reserve the power to supervise systemic risk. PAGE B3
 Cerberus to Reorganize Fund B2
 Weak Retail Sales in June B3 
 15,400 Claims Against Madoff B3 
 Rescue for ''Moneyball'' Movie? B5 
 Sports
 FACE-OFF FOR TEAM AND TOUR IN THE MOUNTAINS OF FRANCE
 After six days, the Tour de France offers riders its toughest test yet: climbing the Pyrenees. There, the showdown between teammates Lance Armstrong and Alberto Contador will begin. PAGE B10 
 PIONEEROF THE NILE IS RETIRED
 The casualties from this year's Triple Crown campaign continued to mount when Pioneerof the Nile, runner-up in the Kentucky Derby, was retired with a soft tissue injury to his left front leg. PAGE B11 
 FOUR-TEAM TRADE IN N.B.A.
 A trade involving eight players grew larger as it gained momentum before its completion. At the center of the deal were Hedo Turkoglu (to Toronto) and Shawn Marion (to Dallas). PAGE B11 
 Obituaries
 HARRY J. GRAY, 89
 He rose from boyhood poverty to lead the transformation of United Aircraft into United Technologies, one of the world's most powerful conglomerates. PAGE B9 
 Weekend
 DANCE PARTIES IN DAYLIGHT, FOR PEOPLE WITH DAY JOBS
 Aficionados of dance music are used to waiting until the wee hours to catch top-of-the-line talent. But early parties, many outside, let people hear the latest in experimental beats and still be at the office on time in the morning. PAGE C1 
 FLAUNTING HIS UMLAUTS
 ''Bruno'' (Sacha Baron Cohen's follow to ''Borat,'' also directed by Larry Charles) offers both succor and sucker bait for liberal-minded viewers. Review by A. O. Scott. PAGE C1 
 Escapes
 CHICAGO, SECOND CITY, BECOMES SECOND-HOME CITY
 Chicago has become a second- and vacation-home hot spot, fueled by its real estate market, revitalized neighborhoods, strong theater scene, groundbreaking architecture and affordability. PAGE C28 
 SURFING A STILL WAVE
 Surfers often gather in Montreal, 500 miles from the nearest ocean beach, where the St. Lawrence River roars over a steep depression and creates a breaker. PAGE C28 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A25
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN IN ARMED CONFLICT (77%); FAMILY (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LITIGATION (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); WORLD WAR II (54%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (82%); CITIGROUP INC (51%); BEAZER HOMES USA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (82%); UBS (NYSE) (82%); C (NYSE) (51%); C (BMV) (51%); 8710 (TSE) (51%); BZH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); IRELAND (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); IRAQ (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



280 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Two Authorities on Fed Advise Congress Against Expanding Its Power

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two economists with longstanding ties to the Federal Reserve warned Congress on Thursday that it would be a mistake to make the Fed a super-regulator in charge of reining in ''systemic risk'' and financial institutions considered ''too big to fail.''
 In what is shaping up as a political battle over a crucial part of President Obama's plan to overhaul financial regulation, the economists told a House panel that the Fed had consistently failed to recognize financial catastrophes until they were well under way. 
 ''I do not know of any single clear example in which the Federal Reserve acted in advance to head off a crisis or a series of banking or financial failures,'' said Allan H. Meltzer, professor of political economy at Carnegie Mellon University and the author of a history of the Fed. 
 In written testimony prepared for the House Financial Services Committee, Mr. Meltzer ticked off a long list of financial crises -- the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s, the savings-and-loan collapse of the early 1990s, the collapse of the dot-com bubble and the recent binge in reckless mortgages -- and argued that the Fed had either failed to take preventive action or made things worse.
 ''We all know that the Federal Reserve did nothing to prevent the current credit crisis,'' Mr. Meltzer said. ''It has not recognized that its actions promoted moral hazard and encouraged incentives to take risk.'' 
 A broader warning came from John B. Taylor, a top Treasury official under President George W. Bush who was considered a potential candidate to succeed Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman.
 Mr. Taylor said that expanding the Fed's power would dilute its main mission of steering the economy, create conflicts of interest, reduce its credibility and jeopardize its independence.
 ''The administration proposal would grant to the Fed significant new powers, more powers than it has ever had before,'' he told lawmakers. ''My experience in government and elsewhere is that institutions work best when they focus on a limited set of understandable goals.''
 The Obama administration is proposing to make the Fed responsible for identifying and reining in ''systemic risks,'' like the explosion of reckless mortgages that nearly destroyed the financial system and started a recession that has yet to hit bottom.
 The Fed would also be in charge of regulating giant financial institutions that are considered too big to fail, perhaps by imposing higher capital requirements on them.
 But the proposal is highly controversial. Banking and Wall Street executives generally support the idea, as do current and former officials at the Fed and some Democratic lawmakers, like Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 Lawmakers are sharply divided. Many Democrats have accused the Fed in recent months of being too secretive and too sympathetic to the banks and financial institutions that it has helped bail out. Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, is skeptical about giving the Fed more power.
 Republicans have been even more hostile, depicting an expansion of the Fed's charter as an expansion of big government by unelected officials. More than 250 Republicans have co-sponsored a bill by Representative Ron Paul of Texas that would allow the Government Accountability Office, an arm of Congress, to conduct ''audits'' of Fed decisions on monetary policy.
 Fed officials oppose that measure, saying it would threaten the central bank's independence and cast a chill over policy makers.
 Donald Kohn, vice chairman of the Fed, maintained that the Obama proposal would be only an incremental change because the Fed already supervised all the biggest bank holding companies and Wall Street firms. 
 ''I agree that we did not see the abuses as widespread as they were,'' Mr. Kohn said, referring to the Fed's refusal to restrict subprime mortgage lending until after the crisis had begun. 
 But he said that the Fed was well positioned to watch out for systemic risks and that the added authority would not pose a conflict with the Fed's primary job of conducting macroeconomic policy.
 ''I just don't see a conflict,'' Mr. Kohn told lawmakers. ''Macroeconomic stability will support financial stability, and financial stability supports macroeconomic policy. In some sense, it doesn't matter who the systemic regulator is. The Federal Reserve will have to be involved.''
 Mr. Taylor and Mr. Meltzer are both conservatives. Mr. Taylor was a member of the Bush administration, though he was best known among economists as the author of the ''Taylor rule,'' a formula used to predict Fed policy decisions. He has also accused the Fed of encouraging the housing crisis by keeping interest rates too low for too long.
 Mr. Meltzer is a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a right-of-center research group in Washington, but he has long had entree to the top ranks of Fed policy makers. 
 His history of the Fed, based on exhaustive research of Fed documents and records dating back to its creation, is considered the most comprehensive history of the central bank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Allan Meltzer, left, a professor of political economy, said the Fed failed to head off the economic crisis. John Taylor, a former Treasury official, said the Fed's independence could be jeopardized.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRE HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WRITERS (68%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



281 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: A Blitz That Has Don Draper Written All Over It

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE imaginary staff members of a make-believe agency that dates back almost five decades are doing their part to help stimulate the media economy today.
 The faux agency is Sterling Cooper, the focus for the drama series ''Mad Men,'' created by Matthew Weiner. Elaborate and expensive promotions are under way to generate interest in season two on DVD, coming out on Tuesday from the Lionsgate Home Entertainment unit of Lionsgate, and season three on TV, which begins on Aug. 16 on the AMC cable channel.
 The partners joining forces for the ''Mad Men'' marketing blitz include Banana Republic, Clorox, Vanity Fair and Variety. The efforts are more extensive than those a year ago, when Lionsgate released the first season on DVD and AMC was about to start season two on TV. 
 The promotions demonstrate how campaigns from entertainment companies peddling television series, DVDs, movies, music and books are becoming more prevalent and prominent during the recession as other marketers reduce ad spending.
 Units of companies like Comcast, Discovery Communications, the Walt Disney Company, NBC Universal, the News Corporation, Time Warner and Viacom are helping newspapers, magazines, TV and radio stations, Web sites and other media outlets -- not to mention agencies that specialize in tasks like public relations and event marketing -- make up for budget cutbacks in formerly lucrative categories like automobiles, financial services, luxury goods and retailing.
 ''Entertainment is just on fire; that's certainly the case for us this year,'' said Edward J. Menicheschi, vice president and publisher at Vanity Fair, part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications. 
 In addition to the ''Mad Men'' promotion in the August issue of his magazine, which carries the theme ''Go mad for 'Mad Men' Season 2 on DVD,'' recent issues have included ads and advertorials for HBO series like ''True Blood''; Character Project, an image campaign for the USA Network cable channel; and the TNT series ''Leverage.'' 
 That ''Mad Men'' is about the ad business may give it an advantage in wooing partners for attention-getting promotions.
 ''When we speak to clients and people at agencies, there's a kinship to the show,'' said Charlie Collier, president and general manager at AMC, part of the Rainbow Media Holdings division of the Cablevision Systems Corporation, because for them it is ''more than just another television series.''
 The fact that ''Mad Men'' takes place in the 1960s is also a drawing card. For example, before the start of the third season on TV, Banana Republic, part of Gap Inc., will feature the series in the windows of almost 500 stores.
 ''We're looking for unique ways to engage with our customers and 'Mad Men' totally fits with our aesthetic,'' said Jack Calhoun, president at Banana Republic. There will also be style guides distributed to shoppers, a contest with prizes like a walk-on part in a coming episode and offers of free downloads of ''Mad Men'' content from iTunes.
 There is an ad for the Banana Republic contest in the August issue of Vanity Fair, along with an advertorial for the season two DVD that promotes a sweepstakes called ''Mad'' on Madison with prizes like ''a 'Mad Men'-inspired weekend getaway for two to New York City.''
 The Vanity Fair promotion, along with the partnership with Variety, were developed for Lionsgate Home Entertainment by Initiative, a media agency owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 The Variety partnership is notable because it involves the variety.com Web site, where visitors will be able to read a so-called digital flipbook about the '60s featuring articles from the Variety archives.
 One article likely of interest, from the front page of the issue of Nov. 25, 1963, carries the headline ''All Showbiz Mourns Kennedy,'' reporting on the aftermath of the assassination of the president. 
 In keeping with the ''Mad Men'' ethos, advertisements will be included, among them one for the Lido de Paris revue at the Stardust Hotel in Las Vegas.
 The genesis of the promotion was that Variety is ''in the process of scanning our archives from 1910 on,'' said Jennifer Collins, general manager for online at Variety, part of the Reed Business Information division of Reed Elsevier. ''You'll be able to see the actual newspaper from the day it ran.''
 Among the other aspects of the promotions are commercials for Clorox bleach, sold by the Clorox Company, on the second season DVDs. They, too, are evocative of ''Mad Men.'' One spot offers a look at a century's worth of laundry.
 The other spot shows a man's white shirt with a lipstick stain on the collar. Office noises can be heard on the soundtrack, followed by the clattering of a typewriter as these words appear on screen: ''Getting ad guys out of hot water for generations.'' The shirt spot was created internally at Clorox and the laundry spot was created by the San Francisco office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group.
 The Clorox commercials ''speak to the longevity of the brand,'' said Anne Parducci, executive vice president for marketing at Lionsgate Home Entertainment, which is possible because the plots of ''Mad Men'' take place in 1960 (season one) and 1962 (season two).
 Mr. Weiner, the creator, has been coy about the time frame for the third season; fans are wondering, for instance, if it will take place before, during or after the Kennedy assassination. In an interview with Rolling Stone, all he would say is that the coming season ''is about how people respond to a changing world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Banana Republic is promoting ''Mad Men'' by offering the kind of clothing worn by Don Draper, the show's central character.
 A DVD set of the AMC show's second season will be sold at Best Buy. The packaging includes a ''Mad Men'' tie clip. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); MUSIC (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (69%); NEWS CORP (68%); CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (62%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); VIACOM INC (55%); DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (54%); AMC NETWORKS INC (51%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (69%); NWS (NASDAQ) (68%); NWS (ASX) (68%); CVC (NYSE) (62%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); DISCA (NASDAQ) (55%); AMCX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (62%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



282 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: A Lesson on Warming

 BODY:
President Obama had hoped to emerge from this week's Group of 8 summit meeting in Italy with a tentative agreement uniting rich and developing nations in a common fight against global warming. Instead he got a lesson on how divided the world remains on the issue -- and how hard he will have to work to pull off an agreement. 
 Mr. Obama was clearly eager to restore America's leadership role. He convened a special side meeting of 17 nations -- the G-8 plus China, India and seven other developing nations -- that together emit 80 percent of the world's greenhouse gases. 
 Before the leaders gathered, their negotiators had already settled on a draft communique, committing to a 50 percent cut in worldwide greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The industrial countries would cut theirs by 80 percent, and the developing countries would make ''significant'' if unquantified cuts. But on Wednesday, things fell apart. The developing nations flatly refused to commit to the 50 percent goal by 2050. 
 It was not immediately clear why they balked. Some repeated an old demand: that the United States and the other industrialized nations -- which bear responsibility for the buildup of greenhouse gases since the beginning of the industrial revolution -- should do more and do it faster. Otherwise, the developing nations would be left with an unfair share of the burden while their economies were expanding rapidly.
 What is clear is that Mr. Obama and the other leaders of the developed world have yet to come up with the right mixture of pressure and incentives to get the developing countries to commit. 
 The 17 nations did agree to an ''aspirational'' goal of preventing global temperatures from rising more than 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. But with global climate talks in Copenhagen only five months away, aspirational goals won't carry things very far.
 If there is any chance of pulling this off, the developed countries are going to have to take away all excuses from China, India and other developing nations. The Europeans have already committed to deep cuts in their emissions. The United States is doing a lot better under Mr. Obama, but it is still lagging. 
 The House's climate change bill requires emissions reductions of only 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. (The Europeans have pledged themselves to a 20 percent reduction from a much earlier base line, which will require much more aggressive cuts.) 
 We know that getting the Senate to do as well as the House won't be easy. But Mr. Obama will have to press them to do even better. 
 Mr. Obama should also continue to talk to the Chinese, who are now the world's leading emitters of greenhouse gases. A host of top administration officials, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton included, have made the pilgrimage to Beijing. 
 The Europeans are concerned that Mr. Obama and the Chinese will cut a less ambitious side deal and undercut a worldwide agreement. There is no evidence to support those suspicions. Mr. Obama, like the Europeans, says he wants a strong deal to bring down emissions. Without China's participation, the fight against global warming is essentially lost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



283 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Getting Out the Vote for Pablo

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Baseball's All-Star Game has rarely created riveting theater, and frankly, by the time the last players on each team enter the game, even the most avid fans usually need resuscitation. But in a strange phenomenon, baseball has turned the selection of those players into something fun.
 It's not so much the voting -- which closes Thursday at 4 p.m. -- that's fun, but the campaigning, which has grown increasingly hilarious in the YouTube age. Anything that produces a dance video in support of Giants third baseman Pablo Sandoval, we're all for. And Diamondbacks third baseman Mark Reynolds drew an official endorsement from Senator John McCain of Arizona, who reminded fans, ''Like they used to say in Chicago, vote early and vote often.'' McCain is also tweeting on Reynolds's behalf. Fans of Phillies outfielder Shane Victorino had him in the National League lead early Thursday, but they could use a little jolt of Hollywood to add to their efforts. 
 After the voting ends, we are back to the usual All-Star thoughts, with Joel Sherman giving us the all-surprise team on SI.com and Ted Keith outlining the burning questions for the season's second half. We have a burning question for the White Sox, as in, how exactly does a team misplace Bartolo Colon?
 The N.B.A.'s burning question -- beyond who can actually explain the four-team merry-go-round trade that will apparently land Shawn Marion in Dallas -- is why Nike confiscated the tape of LeBron James being dunked on at his own Skills Academy. The company says the guy with the camera, Ryan Miller, a freelance videographer, violated the media policy. It immediately inspired parody on the Nike ad that calls James's fans witnesses: You can't witness what we confiscate!
 The Marion spin-o-rama trade, meanwhile, is drawing kudos from SI.com's Scott Howard-Cooper, who believes it showed the Mavericks are serious about winning now and The Dallas Morning News's Tim Cowlishaw believes Marion is worth the game of Twister it required to get him. The Mavs' owner, Mark Cuban, tweeted that the deal even confused him: ''It's been a long day of looking at spreadsheets, reading N.B.A. cap rules and rubbing my eyes.'' 
 Nowhere did they have a longer day than in Nashville, where people are trying to make sense of the killing of Steve McNair, writes Elizabeth Merrill in a moving article on ESPN.com after the police officially classified it a murder-suicide. On CBSSports.com, Mike Freeman said it shows we know very little about the celebrities we watch so closely.
 We seemed to learn a lot more about the soccer stars David Beckham and Landon Donovan after Donovan blasted Becks in a recent book, but as Grahame L. Jones writes in The Los Angeles Times, they are going to have to play together soon. It will rival the melodrama set for Minneapolis, where the anticipated arrival of quarterback Brett Favre to the Vikings could cause lots of problems, according to Jerry Rice, who apparently was paying attention to the end of the Jets' season last year.
 None of those sports can match the soap opera feel of women's golf right now as it lurches into the United States Open. While Yahoo's Devil Ball Golf blog helpfully outlines the top five contenders, the rest of the world focuses on the impending mutiny that could topple L.P.G.A. Commissioner Carolyn Bivens. USA Today's Christine Brennan said Nancy Lopez would be a good choice of a replacement. And if you're watching the tournament and players seem to be doing weird things between shots, blame the ''holistic'' coaching of Pia Nilsson, writes WSJ.com.
 The recession has taken a chunk out of women's golf, but Ray Ratto writes on CBSSports.com that the rest of sports seems to be unscathed. The former baseball star Lenny Dykstra, though, has absorbed his share of financial problems and is now bankrupt. And you know Detroit has it bad when one of its Red Wings, Jiri Hudler, chooses Russian winters over playing there.
 No one got to vote on that besides Hudler. Hockey should work on that.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FILM (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); CELEBRITIES (79%); SPORTS (78%); ATHLETES (74%); SOCCER (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); MURDER (60%); SUICIDE (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (57%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (56%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (71%); LEBRON JAMES (58%); MARK CUBAN (58%); DAVID BECKHAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (77%); TEXAS, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



284 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Group of 8 Is Not Enough, Say Outsiders Wanting In

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and RACHEL DONADIO; Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting.

DATELINE: L'AQUILA, Italy 

 BODY:
The idea at first was simple power politics. Economic troubles prompted the most powerful democracies to convene a summit meeting to determine the course of the world, or at least as much of it as they could.
 It worked well enough that they did it again the next year. And the next. More countries joined, and more began banging on the door. Eventually, the so-called Group of 8 started what might be considered auxiliary clubs. And that was how they ended up with a meeting on Thursday that was actually dubbed the G-8 + 5 + 1 + 5. Seriously.
 The group's 35th gathering is such a sprawling event that the leaders of about 40 countries traveled here for it. No longer can just eight powers drive every decision. President Obama headed one meeting with 17 leaders for what he called a Major Economies Forum because there would be no point grappling with climate change without, say, China and India. 
 So whither the Group of 8 in a Group of 20 world? What relevance does the Group of 8 have when it seemingly cannot take landmark action without enlisting others? Does it make sense for thousands of officials, diplomats, lobbyists, public relations people and journalists to descend on a single overwhelmed town each year when maybe a simple videoconference call might do? Or if it is still meaningful, then does it have the right membership in a changing world?
 ''Look at the amount of effort, of carbon, of cost that went into this,'' said Kumi Naidoo of South Africa, co-chairman of the Global Call to Action Against Poverty, an advocacy organization, looking at the large tents set up for the news media, complete with air-conditioning, wireless Internet and land lines. 
 ''The G-8 is an elite cocktail, a self-appointed group,'' he added. ''I think it's an anachronism, and consistently undermining the work of other multilateral initiatives.''
 These are questions that come up every year, but more so lately as economic and political power shifts. The Group of 20, which includes the eight and an array of nations from Argentina to Indonesia to Turkey, has emerged in recent months as a potent forum addressing the global recession. 
 President George W. Bush summoned the Group of 20 leaders to Washington in November to figure out how to revive the world economy. Mr. Obama joined the group when it met in London in April and invited it to meet again in September in Pittsburgh.
 As a first-time Group of 8 participant, Mr. Obama seems to have a skeptical eye, uncertain about its suitability as a vehicle for solving the world's problems. This year's meeting produced statements on the economy, Iran, the Middle East and other topics but made few breakthroughs, and Mr. Obama's aides cast it as a mere way station between Group of 20 meetings.
 ''We view this meeting and this discussion as a midpoint between the London G-20 summit and the Pittsburgh G-20 summit,'' said Mike Froman, the president's chief negotiator, or ''sherpa.''
 Indeed, Mr. Obama concluded that it was pointless to talk about climate change among just the eight powers, so he invited nine others Thursday. Developing countries like China and India agreed to make ''meaningful'' reductions in greenhouse gases but refused to accept the specific targets for 2050 sought by the United States and Europe.
 Mr. Obama cast that as victory enough, until discussions resume at the Group of 20. ''We've made a good start,'' he said, ''but I am the first one to acknowledge that progress on this issue will not be easy.''
 The developing countries of the Group of 20 say the days of the smaller club are numbered. ''The G-8 is over as a political decision group,'' Celso Amorim, Brazil's foreign minister, said last month at a conference in Paris. It ''represents nothing at all,'' he said, adding that ''you simply can't ignore emerging countries such as Brazil, China or India.''
 Still, talk of restructuring or scrapping the Group of 8 invariably runs into resistance from current members. At a news conference on opening night, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, the host, said the summit meeting was ''ideal for building confidence and cordiality, for creating friendships and deepening friendships.'' He added, ''We call each other by our first names and not our last names'' and gather ''at the same informal table.''
 There is no doubt Italy pulled off a tour de force of last-minute organization, spending $75 million to transform a police training complex in an earthquake zone into an Olympic-style village, complete with high-quality espresso bars and wicker lawn sets. Cooks are preparing 25,000 meals over three days, and 3,700 journalists registered to attend.
 It is a far cry from the original meeting outside Paris in 1975, when leaders of the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Japan inaugurated the Group of 6. Canada joined two years later, and it became the Group of 7, an organization without organization -- no headquarters, no bylaws, no staff, just a rotating leadership to hold the annual meeting.
 President Bill Clinton got Russia admitted in 1997, and others started attending as observers. By this year, there was a regular meeting with China, India, Brazil, Mexico and South Africa, now dubbed the Group of 5. 
 Mr. Berlusconi also invited Egypt, so the secondary meeting became known as the G-8 + 5 + 1. Then there was a working lunch with international organizations called the G-8 + 5 + 1 + 5. Given that China's president, Hu Jintao, abruptly left to deal with rioting at home, perhaps it should have been called the G-8 + 5 + 1 + 5 -- 1.
 Then there is breakfast on Friday with African leaders. All told, roughly 40 countries representing 90 percent of the world economy sent leaders to L'Aquila. But that has risks of its own; a president never knows whom he might run into. Mr. Obama found himself shaking hands on Thursday with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya.
 Robert C. Fauver, who was Mr. Clinton's sherpa, agreed that the Group of 8 could be redefined, but noted that has complications too. ''If you're trying to negotiate an exchange rate deal with 20 countries or a bailout of Mexico, as in the early Clinton days, with 20 countries that's not easy,'' he said. ''If you get above 10, it just makes it too darn hard to get things done.''
 Attending his 21st summit meeting, John Kirton, director of the Group of 8 Research Group at the University of Toronto, said the group would evolve with additional formats involving more countries. But he said the core eight still represented unrivaled political and economic power and had the duty to weigh in on issues of democracy that others could not.
 ''There's a lot that the eight can do that the others can't,'' he said. ''You'll always need the G-8.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama talked with Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia on Thursday at the Group of 8 meeting in L'Aquila, Italy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president, left, greeted Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India at the summit meeting.(POOL PHOTO BY MICHEL EULER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (51%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); KEVIN RUDD (59%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



285 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Sony Hires New Writer To Salvage 'Moneyball'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Sony Pictures Entertainment has quietly moved to salvage its troubled movie project ''Moneyball'' by hiring the prominent screenwriter Aaron Sorkin for a quick rewrite, while looking to add Scott Rudin, known for his turns on the Oscar circuit, to the film's roster of producers. 
 Last month, Sony executives canceled the baseball picture -- which was set to star Brad Pitt, who remains involved -- just days before production, citing dissatisfaction with a rewrite from its director, Steven Soderbergh.
 Mr. Soderbergh and his associates were allowed to offer the film to other studios. But Paramount and Warner turned it down, and Mr. Soderbergh left the project.
 The film's sudden collapse raised questions about Hollywood's ability to tackle complex fare in the face of weak industry economics. Based on a nonfiction book by Michael Lewis, ''Moneyball'' tells the story of the Oakland A's general manager Billy Beane and his statistical approach to baseball.
 Representatives for Sony, Mr. Sorkin and Mr. Rudin all declined to comment on the new configuration. But several people who were briefed on the situation and spoke on condition of anonymity to protect relationships said Mr. Sorkin was revising a version of the script that had been written by Steven Zaillian, who had worked with Mr. Soderbergh.
 Studio executives had suddenly declared Mr. Soderbergh's draft too arty and documentary in style, though he had worked with them in developing his version, and had included changes requested by Major League Baseball, which examines scripts for authenticity before granting permission to use its trademarks.
 It was unclear whether Mr. Rudin, who was a producer of ''No Country for Old Men,'' which won the best-picture Oscar in 2008, would be credited as a producer or executive producer of ''Moneyball.'' He joins Michael De Luca and Rachael Horovitz, who remain producers of the movie. 
 Mr. Sorkin, perhaps best known as a writer and producer of ''The West Wing,'' has been working with both Mr. Rudin and Mr. De Luca on ''The Social Network'' -- a comic drama that has been loosely tagged ''The Facebook Movie.'' If Mr. Sorkin finishes his work on ''Moneyball'' quickly, Sony executives are hoping to recruit a new director and shoot the film, with Mr. Pitt still in the lead, in the fall of this year, people briefed on the project said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE FILMING (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (53%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (59%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (59%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (59%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: SCOTT RUDIN (89%); BRAD PITT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



286 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: California: Sorry, State Is Closed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Starting Friday, most California government offices will begin closing three days a month to save money. The shutdowns are part of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's order to furlough state employees, effectively reducing their pay about 14 percent. The closings are intended to aid the state as it wrestles with a steep decline in tax revenue. Among the closings Friday will be 169 Department of Motor Vehicle offices. Prisons, hospitals, the California Highway Patrol and state firefighters will continue to operate around the clock, and people can still go to state parks and wildlife areas. In addition, more than half the Employment Development Department's 9,000 employees will be working Friday to help unemployed people file for jobless benefits by telephone and online. About 200 one-stop career centers will stay open to help with job searches and training. The state Department of Personnel Administration plans to post a list of the few available services on its Web site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); STATE PARKS (54%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



287 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bishops and Vatican View Obama Differently

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
Ever since he took office, President Obama has been given a cold reception by some Roman Catholic bishops in the United States who have repeatedly emphasized their church's differences with him on abortion, birth control and stem cell research.
 But Mr. Obama is likely to receive a much warmer reception in the Vatican on Friday when he meets Pope Benedict XVI for the first time, experts on the church say. 
 Both the pope and the president recognize that despite their differences, they have an opportunity to join forces on international issues that are mutual priorities: Israel and the Palestinians, climate change, nuclear nonproliferation, increased aid to poor nations and immigration reform.
 Their encounter comes just as Mr. Obama leaves the Group of 8 industrialized nations summit meeting in L'Aquila, Italy, and three days after Pope Benedict released a weighty encyclical, ''Caritas in Veritate'' or ''Charity in Truth,'' which updates Catholic social teaching for the global economic era.
 ''The pope is trying to engage America's capacity for good in the world at a time when it's really critical,'' said the Rev. Drew Christensen, editor in chief of America magazine, a national Jesuit weekly, who worked for the church for many years in international relations. 
 ''You'll never get Rome to admit it,'' Father Christensen said, but the Vatican has a different approach than the American bishops to working with governments. ''Some of the critics of the president think you have to be at war, and the pope is saying, there's a different way to proceed here and it's very essential to the church's approach, in that what you want is consensus.'' 
 American bishops early on set an adversarial tone with the Obama administration. The president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops warned in a letter soon after the election that ''aggressive pro-abortion policies'' would ''be seen by many as an attack on the free exercise of their religion.''
 Dozens of bishops denounced the University of Notre Dame for having Mr. Obama give the commencement speech and receive an honorary degree. Last month, the bishops conference issued a statement supporting Bishop John M. D'Arcy, whose diocese is home to Notre Dame and who led the charge against the university. 
 The Vatican, by contrast, sent Mr. Obama a congratulatory telegram immediately after his election -- a highly unusual gesture, because the Vatican usually waits for the inauguration, experts said. The Vatican sent another telegram for the inauguration, followed by a phone call from the pope. 
 During the Notre Dame controversy, the Vatican's newspaper ran a markedly positive story about Mr. Obama. Some Vatican officials have even expressed an openness to the president's ''common ground'' initiative to reduce, rather than outlaw, abortions -- an approach met with suspicion and disdain by some American bishops and anti-abortion leaders.
 ''Clearly a lot of people in the Vatican like Obama,'' said Joseph Bottum, editor of First Things, a conservative religious magazine. ''But they're never going to have a relationship that's super close.'' 
 Mr. Obama smoothed the way to his meeting with the pope by inviting editors and reporters for Roman Catholic publications to the White House last week. The president told them that as a community organizer, he was shaped by Catholic teaching on social justice, and that the church had ''always been a powerful moral compass'' on questions of the distribution of wealth. 
 The president also expressed respect for the American bishops, saying that they ''have a profound influence,'' and that he would take seriously the opinions of critics. That made ''huge headlines'' in the church-affiliated newspapers in Rome, said John L. Allen Jr., senior correspondent for The National Catholic Reporter, a liberal Catholic outlet.
 ''It reassured some people who were worried that Obama was going to try to manipulate this photo op with the pope to divide the Vatican from the American bishops,'' Mr. Allen said.
 Bishop William F. Murphy of Rockville Centre, N.Y., on Long Island, who is chairman of the bishops' committee on domestic policy, said that perhaps the reason for the contrasting approaches was that ''there are 290 U.S. bishops, with different opinions, and only one pope.''
 ''We're not looking for a fight with the president,'' Bishop Murphy said. ''We're looking to work with him. But we need to be clear when his proposals run counter to what we as Catholics teach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama received an honorary degree at the University of Notre Dame in May, angering many Catholic bishops.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); RELIGION (95%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BIOETHICS (77%); ABORTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (57%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (59%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (73%) HOLY SEE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ITALY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009



288 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Fall Below $60 a Barrel

BYLINE: By CATHERINE CONTIGUGLIA and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
Oil prices slipped below $60 a barrel on Friday as traders focused on recent signs of economic weakness, even as a report by the International Energy Agency forecast that global oil demand would rebound. 
 Traders appeared, however, to be focusing on speculation that the global recession and rising unemployment would keep constraining demand, while stocks in the United States have been plentiful.
 ''Crude oil prices have dropped along with sentiment concerning the speed of the global economic recovery,'' Deutsche Bank said in a commodities market report released Friday.
 Prices fell 52 cents Friday to settle at $59.89 a barrel in New York trading. In its monthly Oil Market Report, the agency said that global demand would increase in 2010 by 1.7 percent on a year earlier, or by 1.4 million barrels a day, to 85.2 million barrels.
 The outlook for global demand in 2009 remained unchanged, it said, decreasing 2.9 percent, or 2.5 million barrels a day.
 The agency said the rebound would be driven by economic recovery in developing countries, where demand is expected to increase by 3.5 percent, or 1.3 million barrels a day, in 2010, and by a modest increase in demand from O.E.C.D. countries for transportation and winter fuel.
 But the forecasts had little effect on the market, which appears to remain focused on the continued prospect of global economic weakness.
 A weekly report from the Energy Department showed a substantial increase in gasoline inventories in the United States, with total oil inventories reaching their highest level since 1990. The report, widely viewed as bearish for oil markets, also signaled weaker-than- expected consumption.
 ''Although crude oil inventory cover in the U.S. remains high, days of supply have been declining since May and are on a track to be back in the normal range by the start of September,'' the Deutsche Bank report said.
 ''The market seems to be ignoring the potential for a recovery in crude prices as inventories tighten up.''
 The agency based the forecasts for its monthly report on the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook report from April, which forecast global growth of 1.8 percent in 2010. The monetary fund revised that number up to 2.5 percent in an update this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); RECESSION (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



289 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: In the Unemployment Line, and Stuck There

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
LONG-TERM unemployment in the United States has risen to its highest level since the Great Depression, as those who have lost jobs have found it difficult to find new ones. 
 The government reported last week that the overall unemployment rate rose to 9.5 percent of the labor force in June, the highest since 1982, when the rate peaked at 10.8 percent.
 The long-term unemployment rate -- the proportion of the labor force that has been out of work for at least 15 weeks -- climbed to 5.1 percent. Until this year, the post-Depression high for that rate had been 4.2 percent.
 June was also the first month since the government began collecting the data in 1948 that more than half of the unemployed people had been out of work for at least 15 weeks.
 The proportion of workers without jobs for at least 27 weeks rose to 2.8 percent, which is also the highest since World War II.
 The figures reflect an economy where the pace of layoffs and firings has slowed this year, so that fewer people are being added to the unemployment rolls. But the pace of new hiring is now even lower than it was when layoffs were peaking.
 A decline in labor mobility may help explain some of the failure of workers to find jobs even after they have been unemployed for months. In previous downturns, some regions remained relatively strong, and attracted workers from other areas. This time, the credit crisis has damaged job prospects almost everywhere, and plunging home prices mean that some who would like to move cannot afford to do so because they owe more than their house is worth.
 Another factor is that workers now are less likely to be able to return to their old employers when the economy recovers. At the height of unemployment in 1982, one of every five unemployed workers was on a temporary layoff, with the expectation they would be recalled, sooner or later. Today the comparable figure is 1 of 10.
 The average unemployed person now has been out of work for 24.5 weeks, or nearly half a year. That is also the longest period on record, and is a full six weeks longer than the average when total unemployment peaked in 1982. 
 The final chart shows the number of people who have been unemployed for more than 15 weeks, a figure that is now up to 7.8 million. That figure has more than tripled over the last 24 months, a rate of increase that had not been seen since the severe downturn of the mid-1970s.
 There are limited signals that the deterioration in the labor market has slowed. The government estimates that there was a net loss of 1.3 million jobs in this year's second quarter, compared with a loss of 2 million jobs in the previous quarter.
 If that continues, it will be taken as a sign that the economy is stabilizing, and will encourage economists who think the economy will turn up soon. But even if that happens, the challenge will be to find jobs for people who have been out of work the longest. So far, there is no indication that much progress has been made.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Workers unemployed for 15 weeks or more: as a percent of the labor force
Workers unemployed for 14 weeks or less: as a percent of the labor force
Average length of unemployment
 Number of workers unemployed for 15 weeks or more (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HOME PRICES (69%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



290 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Help for Home-State Bank

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''When Congress Lobbies for Banks'' (editorial, July 7), you assert that I ''wrote a guarantee of $12 million for a home-state bank,'' and say that taxpayers deserve an explanation. Here it is. 
 The bank is the only African-American-owned bank in New England. African-American-owned banks are an important element of our national effort to overcome the economic disparities that have survived official racism.
 The bank has not made bad loans and has not engaged in speculative investments. Its problems stemmed from the fact that it had been one of the heaviest buyers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock.
 The provision I added to the Troubled Asset Relief Program legislation did not guarantee financing; instead, it made banks eligible for TARP funds if regulators found that their only capital problem was that they had bought as a percentage of their capital more Fannie and Freddie stock than others. I did then urge the regulators to see if this bank met all other regulatory tests, and that if it did, to extend it TARP funds.
 Barney Frank Washington, July 9, 2009
 The writer is a Democratic congressman from Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WRITERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



291 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Unresolved Questions After Hearing With Geithner

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The issues were arcane and technical, but the hearing drew an extraordinary turnout: 110 members of Congress, many of whom waited three hours to ask questions for five minutes.
 All eyes were on Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, who testified Friday about the Obama administration's proposal to regulate the multitrillion-dollar market for financial derivatives, the hedging instruments that bankrupted the American International Group in September.
 But after three hours, many of the hardest questions remained unanswered. 
 Mr. Geithner vowed that the administration would impose tougher regulations on the freewheeling market for derivatives like credit-default swaps, which insure investors from losses on bond defaults. 
 He told lawmakers that the plan would require that all ''standardized'' instruments be traded on a regulated exchange or through a central clearinghouse. Participants would have to disclose more information about their transactions, and they would have to meet strict new capital requirements.
 The instruments that caused the greatest disruption last year, credit-default swaps tied to mortgage-backed securities, were traded ''over the counter'' rather than on exchanges and were almost entirely unregulated. Part of the problem was that many bond insurers, including A.I.G., sold credit-default swaps as a form of insurance with inadequate capital to cover their obligations.
 Mr. Geithner said the government would demand higher capital requirements for all the participants. It would allow customized, one-of-a-kind derivatives, but those would be subject to reporting requirements and higher capital requirements than exchange-traded instruments.
 But the Treasury secretary shed no new light on how the government would define ''standardized'' instruments. Supporters of over-the-counter derivatives say they come in infinite variations, because they are often meant to help companies hedge against specific risks.
 Mr. Geithner vowed to devise a ''broad definition'' of standardized instruments, adding that regulators would be required to carefully police any attempts at ''spurious customization.''
 The Treasury secretary said he wanted to leave many of the details to the actual regulators, rather than spell them out in legislation, warning that an overly specific law could give market participants opportunities to evade the rules.
 Mr. Geithner said he opposed banning all credit-default swaps, as proposed by Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California. He said such products ''provide an important economic function in helping companies and businesses across the country better hedge against risk.''
 Similarly, Mr. Geithner said he opposed a ban on holding ''naked derivatives,'' the practice of buying a derivative without owning the underlying securities. But he said the practices needed comprehensive oversight.
 Mr. Geithner did not come close to answering the question at the top of many lawmakers' minds: jurisdiction. At issue is which agency would oversee the new regulation, and which committees in Congress would draft the legislation.
 Until those questions are settled, lawmakers said they could not even begin to write a bill. 
 The huge turnout reflected the battle over jurisdiction. The hearing was held by both the House Financial Services Committee, which writes legislation for banks and oversees the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the House Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction over commodity futures trading and oversees the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 Lawmakers are pushing the Treasury Department to decide how to divide responsibilities. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has asked Mr. Geithner to come up with specific answers by the end of July, but the administration is not expected to produce a detailed proposal until September.
 Mr. Geithner alluded to the subterranean wrestling match, describing the choices in Solomonic terms. 
 ''We have been working with the S.E.C. and the C.F.T.C. over the past few months to develop a sensible allocation of duties,'' Mr. Geithner told lawmakers. ''We are striving to utilize each agency's expertise.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INSURANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (76%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); MAXINE WATERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



292 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Commissioner Of the L.P.G.A. Will Step Down

BYLINE: By CHRIS HINE and LARRY DORMAN. 
Larry Dorman reported from Florida.

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa. 

 BODY:
Amid mounting criticism over her leadership of the L.P.G.A. Tour, Commissioner Carolyn Bivens has decided to step down after the United States Women's Open, according to a person with knowledge of the situation and multiple published reports. 
 Bivens, 56, originally planned to fight efforts to force her out through the L.P.G.A. board of directors, according to the individual, but she changed her mind when presented with a letter requesting her resignation signed by 15 tour stars, including Lorena Ochoa, Cristie Kerr, Paula Creamer and Se Ri Pak. 
 The person spoke anonymously because he was not authorized to publicly address the sensitive personnel matter. He said the board was conducting ''informal discussions'' with individuals in the industry to gauge their interest in replacing Bivens. 
 Talk about Bivens's fate and the tour's direction has overshadowed any discussion of play at the Open this week at Saucon Valley Country Club. Players have reportedly been told by their agents and the board not to comment publicly on the matter during the tournament.
 Yet the concerns over the tour's health are no secret. The L.P.G.A. has lost seven events from its schedule since 2007, and others are considered in jeopardy because of the weak economy. The tour has only 10 title contracts for 2010 and has lost the backing of McDonald's, the title sponsor for the L.P.G.A. Championship for the past 16 years.
 Bivens has been commissioner since 2005, when the tour had 35 events. Her contract expires in 2010, and she is said to make about $500,000 a year. A report by Sports Business Daily suggested she would agree to a buyout. 
 She is not attending this week's Open, and she has so far declined to comment. 
 ''As we've said throughout the week, we want all of those interested in women's professional golf to focus on the play here at the U.S. Women's Open,'' David Higdon, the L.P.G.A.'s chief communications officer, said in a statement. ''Out of respect to the U.S.G.A. and the amazing work that they've done and continue to do in producing and hosting this great event, we will not respond to media reports on internal matters related to the L.P.G.A. business.''
 The person with knowledge of the matter said several names of possible successors had been floated, including Donna Orender, the W.N.B.A. commissioner; the retired Hall of Fame golfers Nancy Lopez and Judy Rankin; and Cindy Davis, the president of Nike Golf. 
 Bivens has been criticized for her unwillingness to negotiate with sponsors on purse sizes and the cost of tournaments. She asked sponsors to contribute more to defray the cost of the tour's electronic scoring system, which can require up to $100,000 to maintain at an event. 
 Unable to meet Bivens's demands, some sponsors have backed away from the tour.
 ''I felt like we've lost events over the last four years because people didn't work with the tournaments,'' said Caryn Wilson, a former tour member playing at the Open. ''And I don't think there's anything wrong with having a tournament having a $1 million purse instead of $1.5 million. They lost some of the best tournaments.''
 Bivens also caused a stir when she introduced a proposal that foreign-born players be proficient in English or face possible suspension. The policy, which immediately drew sharp criticism from players, civil rights groups and lawmakers, was soon dropped.
 Some of the tour's leading players decided to take action last week when they met during the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic in Toledo, Ohio. Their meeting came after it was announced that the Kapalua Classic in Hawaii would not be held this year because it could not find a title sponsor.
 Five of the seven players who sit on the 13-member board were in favor of removing Bivens, according to a report on Tuesday by Golf World magazine. Seven votes are needed to remove Bivens, who is also a board member. 
 Earlier in the week, Ochoa said players simply wanted to be more involved in the tour's direction. Referring to the tour's board, she said: ''There's not much we can do. I believe they will do the best for us. And hopefully things will start, you know, moving in a good direction, because we are worried that we're losing tournaments and we want to get back on a good track.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Under Carolyn Bivens, the tour has lost seven events since 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); GOLF (88%); SPONSORSHIP (87%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); ATHLETES (72%); SPORTS BUSINESS (72%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%)

COMPANY: NIKE INC (60%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (60%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (60%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (60%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



293 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Eroding Progress in Juvenile Justice

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C. 

 BODY:
Her first night inside the razor wire at the state juvenile prison came as a 14-year-old in the mid-1970s, when she was locked up for running away from home. Her next experience came the following decade, when she began work as a correctional officer.
 As Velvet McGowan tells it, care was a word not then in the lexicon of the South Carolina Department of Juvenile Justice. Teenagers were warehoused like problematic inventory, with as many as 80 crammed into spaces built for 40. Social services were meager. Violent outbreaks occurred daily. 
 Two decades later, Ms. McGowan oversees the girls' prison, where she focuses on turning around troubled lives. New programs have expanded counseling and education, cutting the repeat offender rate. New facilities have extricated the state from a federal lawsuit brought in response to once appalling conditions. 
 But what South Carolina built over many years in eradicating its shameful past is being undermined by the deep economic recession. In the last year, the state has cut the financing for its juvenile justice system by one-fifth, forcing 285 layoffs and the closure of several facilities, including five group homes that focused on counseling. 
 The department has scrapped a program that helped paroled youngsters find jobs, unleashing them into a state with 11.6 percent unemployment. It has canceled state financing for 40 after-school centers for teenagers, where they get help with their homework, receive mentoring and take part in activities during hours when children are most likely to stray into trouble. It has trimmed the ranks of social workers to 20, from 36.
 ''I'm scared,'' said Ms. McGowan, dabbing tears with a tissue. ''I don't want to relive the '80s through a budget cut.''
 Across the country, depleted coffers have prompted state and local officials to pare programs intended as alternatives to the mere incarceration of juvenile lawbreakers. 
 In Tennessee, state legislators voted last month to close a wilderness activity camp. In Louisiana, a boot camp aimed at deterring young people from crime has been shut down. In California, alternative facilities focused on counseling are threatened from San Jose to Sacramento.
 For South Carolina, cuts are particularly unsettling given its history. For a dozen years ending in 2003, a federal judge supervised the department under the settlement of a class-action lawsuit arising from overcrowded prison conditions.
 Since then, the system has stopped treating youthful offenders as hardened convicts, instead confronting them as social problems through new programs that attack the underlying causes of juvenile crime -- like dysfunctional homes, drug abuse and difficulties in school.
 The department's director, William R. Byars Jr., a former family court justice, has overseen many of the changes. In his days on the bench, he fretted over the condition of the juvenile justice system, regretfully sending children to the prison then known as ''Little Vietnam.'' 
 ''It was a dangerous place,'' Judge Byars said. ''Kids were in here with mental deficiencies. You had kids in here for status offenses, for cutting school or running away. They were all mixed together, because our system was not designed to ask, 'What is the best situation for this child?' ''
 Under Judge Byars's direction, the department has focused on drastically decreasing the numbers of young people held inside the razor wire at the prison, shipping hundreds out to wilderness camps and group homes. The number held at the prison has dropped to fewer than 400, from more than 1,000 in the mid-1990s, while the number held in alternative settings has increased by a similar magnitude.
 The department has set up a network of so-called intensive supervision officers who get to know the youngsters and their families before they are released, and then visit frequently to stay on top of problems. 
 A recent department review found that only 12 percent of youths monitored by these officers wound up back in the system a year after their release, compared with 21 percent among those lacking intensive guidance.
 The success of the reforms has been ''truly remarkable,'' wrote Karen L. Chinn, a consultant selected by the court to monitor conditions. 
 But the cuts of the last year ''have already begun to unravel the progress,'' Ms. Chinn said.
 Judge Byars insists his department will not return to warehousing juveniles. If more cuts threaten to return the prison to overcrowded levels, he will release those on misdemeanor offenses to keep numbers down, he said. 
 For Ms. McGowan, talk of sliding backward is deeply personal. Like many of the 27 girls that fill the prison she now oversees, she slipped into trouble after a family crisis.
 She was 14, and her mother had just died -- or so she thought. In truth, the dead woman had been her grandmother, her family told her. Her real mother was someone she knew as her sister, a taciturn woman she did not much like. 
 ''The most precious person of my life has been taken away from me,'' Ms. McGowan said. ''Nobody sat me down and talked to me about that. Nobody thought to ask me what was going on in my heart.''
 She repeatedly ran away from home, was caught and sentenced to weekends at the prison. She occupied a hard mattress inside a low, dimly lighted concrete block building. Most of the other girls were, like her, African-American and the product of some sort of unaddressed trauma.
 When Ms. McGowan was 22 and working as a restaurant cashier, she heard the juvenile prison was hiring. The children overflowed the facilities, some sleeping on pairs of bunk beds stuffed into rooms no bigger than 8 feet by 12 feet and some on mattresses covering the floors.
 At night, she was sometimes alone, hoping no fight would break out, often finding the inmates tattooing one another with smuggled paper clips or lighting cigarettes by pressing them into bare electrical wiring. 
 ''It was horrible,'' she said. ''It was like just trying to survive. The only thing we were supposed to provide was security, custody and control. Sometimes we'd sneak a talk. You know, 'How are you doing? What are you feeling?' It made me angry, like we were all animals.''
 Today, all of the officers on Ms. McGowan's staff are trained in counseling. The girls gather every morning in small groups to discuss their worries or whatever might be on the mind of a teenager waking up in prison.
 A special transitional house for girls nearing release is meant to model life outside. In place of the stall showers and toilets found in the dorms, the house has two private bathrooms complete with bathtubs, the tiles painted with colorful fish and butterflies. One girl does the cooking for the day using a menu the girls create together. 
 Each girl receives $2,000 in virtual money a month and must write checks simulating payments for rent, electricity and food. If she is late, she pays a fine. She can earn money by doing extra chores. If she runs out of money, she loses privileges, like time watching television. 
 Britney, an 18-year-old in the house, was paying an extra $500 a month to cover the costs of diapers and food for her 7-month-old daughter, who was delivered in prison. Her mother was looking after the baby until Britney's release. 
 That moment was less than 24 hours away, and Britney was both exhilarated and apprehensive. In and out of the juvenile justice system since she was 12 -- mostly for running away after battles with her mother -- she was about to become responsible for her own child.
 ''I stayed up on my bed last night thinking you all made me feel like you all cared,'' Britney told the group one morning. 
 An intensive supervision officer had already held counseling sessions between Britney and her mother using a videoconference system. She planned to monitor closely how they were getting along. The officer was to take Britney on a tour of community colleges (she had earned a G.E.D. inside the prison), where she hoped to begin a career as a nurse practitioner. Britney was to be enrolled in parenting classes. 
 ''They got everything planned out,'' Britney said.
 Still, the adults were anxious, cognizant that the end of Britney's prison life was the beginning of her next incarnation as another jobless teenage single mother.
 ''Are you nervous about going home?'' Ms. McGowan asked her.
 ''Yeah,'' Britney said. ''I'm a little nervous about being free, because I've been here so long.''
 The girls lined up to go to school, a complex of classrooms inside the wire, as a guard administered pat-downs. Ms. McGowan watched Britney submit for a final day.
 ''This is a child we've really got to check in with,'' she said. ''It's really crucial that we stay connected.'' Yet the finances needed to maintain that connection were slipping. Inside the prison, the attention given to each child was being diluted by staff cuts.
 ''We don't want to go back to how it was,'' Ms. McGowan said. ''We were just so heartless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HARD-WON CHANGES IN PERIL: For Raihannah, nearing release from South Carolina's juvenile justice system, communal chores in a transitional house model life outside. Budget trims are threatening many such programs, and Velvet McGowan, left, who oversees the girls' prison, said: ''I'm scared.'' (A9)
Britney, center, in class on her final day in detention, said, ''I'm a little nervous about being free, because I've been here so long.''
In place of the utilitarian sinks and stall toilets found in the dorms of the juvenile prison in Columbia, left, the girls' transitional house has two private bathrooms complete with bathtubs, and the tiles are painted with colorful fish and butterflies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRETT FLASHNICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUVENILE JUSTICE (93%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRISONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); PAROLE (78%); JUVENILE CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (74%); CLOSINGS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RECIDIVISM RATES (73%); FAMILY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); FAMILY COURTS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); JUDGES (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



294 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Little Bottle, Big Punch

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

DATELINE: COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

 BODY:
The power drink of the moment costs 20 times as much per ounce as Coca-Cola, comes in a tiny bottle and tastes so bad that most people hold their noses and down it in a single gulp.
 Despite all that, sales of ''energy shots'' are soaring in the middle of a recession. The two-ounce drinks, which give people a concentrated dose of caffeine, B vitamins and amino acids, were all but unheard-of four years ago. Today they are the hottest drink category in the country, with sales expected to almost double this year from last, to about $700 million.
 The shots are meant for people who want a jolt of caffeine without having to drink a big cup of coffee or one of the 16-ounce energy drinks that have become ubiquitous. They go down fast, more like medicine than a beverage. That is part of the appeal to their most devoted consumers: students cramming for exams or partying into the night, construction workers looking for a lift and drivers trying to stay awake. 
 Near the University of Maryland the other day, students thought nothing of paying $3 or more for a shot. That is $1.50 an ounce; at that price, a 20-ounce bottle of Coca-Cola would sell for $30. 
 ''It helps me stay up all night when I have work to do,'' said Matt Sporre, 20, a sophomore chemical engineering major who said he drank shots three or four nights a week when school was in session. ''Those things are going to be the death of my generation,'' he added. ''Too much caffeine.''
 Mr. Sporre and several others students said the shots worked well in combination with Adderall, a prescription drug for attention deficit disorder that is popular on college campuses. The Adderall helps them focus, they said, and the shot keeps them awake.
 Several students said they sometimes downed an energy shot before going out drinking. Others said the shots helped them stay awake during long drives home from school. Two members of the university's wrestling team said some of their teammates drank the shots before matches to get an energy lift.
 A 7-Eleven store on Knox Road, just off the Maryland campus in College Park, has become one of the top sellers of energy shots among the 5,700 United States stores in the 7-Eleven chain. The store's owner, Million Mekonen, said that sales spiked during finals in May, when the store sold close to 400 shots in a week. 
 But students are not the only users. Steve Cisko, 26, a construction worker renovating a dormitory, stopped in at the 7-Eleven and bought a shot made by AriZona Beverage for $3.99. 
 ''I do demolition; it wears you out,'' he said. ''Sometimes I'll take two at a time in the afternoon. Every guy I work with uses them.'' 
 Sales of the shots are rising even as sales of traditional energy drinks like Red Bull have flattened out. Bill Pecoriello, chief executive of Consumer Edge Research, estimated that shot sales could reach $700 million this year, nearly double last year's $370 million, not counting sales by Wal-Mart Stores. The estimate was based on sales data collected by Information Resources, a market research firm. 
 The market is dominated by a tiny company in suburban Detroit called Living Essentials, which began test sales in late 2004 of a product called 5-Hour Energy, packaged in small plastic bottles. Today, 5-Hour Energy accounts for about 80 percent of the rapidly expanding market, according to Mr. Pecoriello. 
 The company's unlikely success -- it has only one other product, an antihangover pill called Chaser -- has forced the big beverage makers to play catch-up. Last month, Red Bull introduced a two-ounce shot, and Dr Pepper Snapple began test-marketing a three-ounce version of its Venom energy drink, called Venom Bite. Coca-Cola introduced a shot last year based on its NOS energy drink.
 Many smaller companies have jumped in too, often offering products with similar names, like 6 Hour Power, Fuel 7 Hour Energy and Mr. Energy 8-Hour Energy. 
 Living Essentials has spent heavily on advertising to build the market and hold its position against newcomers. It expects to spend $60 million this year on television advertising for 5-Hour Energy. It has also gone after several of its competitors in court, challenging labels or product names it said were too close to its own. 
 The most vigorous legal battle pits Living Essentials against a Texas company called Custom Nutrition Laboratories and includes accusations of betrayal, stolen secrets and other skullduggery. 
 The two companies worked closely together from 2004 through 2007. At Living Essentials' request, Custom Nutrition developed the formula for 5-Hour Energy and then manufactured and bottled it. Living Essentials handled the marketing, distribution and sales. Then, in late 2007, Living Essentials fired Custom Nutrition and replaced it with another manufacturer. 
 Now both companies claim ownership of the product's secret recipe, although only Living Essentials continues to produce it. Last month a federal magistrate judge ordered the two sides to try to mediate their dispute.
 ''We invented the product,'' said Baxter W. Banowsky, a lawyer in Dallas for Custom Nutrition. ''Whatever profits they've made from the sale of the product encompassing our formula, they should be turned over to us.''
 Carl F. Sperber, a spokesman for Living Essentials, said the company would not comment on the litigation, which involves cases in state and federal courts in Texas. 
 Unlike older energy drinks, 5-Hour Energy and most other shots do not contain sugar. Their crucial ingredient is caffeine. But Living Essentials and many of its competitors will not reveal exactly how much of it is in the products, saying only that it is about as much caffeine as in a cup of coffee. The caffeine in coffee can vary widely, from about 80 to 175 milligrams in an eight-ounce cup. 
 Living Essentials makes broad claims for 5-Hour Energy, saying that it is ''packed with B vitamins for energy and amino acids for alertness and focus.'' 
 Nutritionists were skeptical of such claims, however. 
 Marion Nestle, a nutrition professor at New York University, said that while some of the nutrients in 5-Hour Energy were known to play a role in the body's metabolism, most people got enough of those nutrients in their regular diet and that ingesting elevated amounts had not been shown to have any beneficial effect.
 ''It sounds like a great placebo to me,'' she said. ''You can gulp this down and you feel like you're doing something. And I'll bet you ask people and they say they feel better. It's got caffeine -- why not?'' 
 One thing is certain: people are not buying the shots for the taste.
 ''Terrible!'' said Barry Ray, a 21-year-old from Hyattsville, Md., as he sampled a Red Bull shot. ''But it's good. It wakes you up.''
 Joe Gere, a New Jersey entrepreneur who produces a shot called Xfuel, said there was not enough water in a two-ounce shot to dilute the bitter taste of the caffeine and nutrients. But shot makers concede that a medicinal flavor and the small, pill-bottle size are all part of a shot's appeal. 
 ''Five-Hour Energy's not supposed to taste fantastic,'' said Mr. Sperber, the Living Essentials spokesman. ''This is supposed to be a functional product, not something for flavor or something for refreshment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: More like medicine than beverage, the two-ounce drinks deliver a jolt of caffeine, attracting students, athletes and sleepy drivers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
A 7-Eleven store near the University of Maryland campus in College Park is one of the nation's top sellers of the energy shots.
 Million Mekonen, the store's owner, said that sales spiked to 400 a week during finals in May.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (90%); ENERGY DRINKS (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); ENGINEERING (67%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (62%); WRESTLING (60%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); 7-ELEVEN INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (82%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



295 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Tight Mortgage Rules Exclude Even Good Risks

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Inna Komarovskaya was ready to do her part to revive the economy: She found a ''really cute'' condo to buy.
 Despite a good credit score, a six-figure income and an ample down payment, Dr. Komarovskaya, a recent dental school graduate, could not get a loan. Her mortgage broker told her she ran afoul of new rules requiring two years of sufficient tax returns from some home buyers, instead of only one.
 ''Everyone says this is a buyer's market, but they wouldn't let me buy,'' said Dr. Komarovskaya, 30. ''It's not fair.''
 Not fair, perhaps, but far from unique, brokers and agents say. The readiness of banks to sell foreclosed properties has led to rising home sales in some areas. But the traditional housing market, the one that involves willing buyers and sellers, is still dead, with transactions lower than they have been for decades. 
 The recession is the major reason sales are dragging, of course, but it is not the only one. As Dr. Komarovskaya found, buyers once viewed as perfectly qualified are being denied mortgages. 
 Brokers and bankers say that in past decades, the credit markets would almost certainly have accommodated many of these people.
 ''The credit pendulum is stuck at 'stupid,''' said Lou S. Barnes, an owner of Boulder West Financial Services, a Colorado mortgage bank. ''I am turning down loans every day that my grandfather in his Ponca City, Okla., savings and loan in 1935 would have been happy to make. And he was tough.''
 The denials are occurring for a wide array of reasons: the buyers' incomes are adequate but irregular; they are self-employed and take many deductions, reducing the taxable income on which lenders focus; their credit scores are below the cut-off point, which has been raised drastically; their down payments are less than 20 percent. 
 Housing usually leads the country into a recession, which certainly happened this time, and also leads it out -- which will not happen in 2010, the real estate industry contends, without stronger efforts to thaw the market.
 No one is advocating a return to the lax lending standards of 2006, when buyers with no income or documentation could get loans. But many people say they believe lenders and the government, in correcting the excesses of that era, have gone too far in the other direction.
 Fannie Mae, the government-controlled company that buys mortgages, is so dominant in the lending market that its rules set the standard. It recently toughened its policies, saying it would count only 70 percent of the value of stocks and mutual funds when calculating a buyer's assets. Previously, that figure was 100 percent.
 A Fannie spokesman, Brian Faith, said tighter regulations screened out those unprepared to be owners.
 ''One of the important lessons learned in the past few years is that it is not enough to help a borrower own a home,'' Mr. Faith said. ''We must also help ensure that they will be able to stay in the home over the long term.''
 Mortgage brokers say those who are being rejected for loans are often entrepreneurs who are used to taking risks. ''They are chomping at the bit to get into this market, but are forced to the sidelines,'' said Stuart Fraass of Guaranteed Rate Inc. ''If you're self-employed, you have virtually no chance of getting a mortgage now.''
 Mr. Fraass was unable to help Raghbir Singh, a real estate investor who owns a gas station in Dover, N.H. Mr. Singh tried to buy a $301,000 house for himself and his family with 10 percent down and excellent credit, but was rejected. ''It was unfair,'' Mr. Singh said. ''I'm a good risk, but I'm forced to rent.'' 
 Lately, the continued deep-freeze in the traditional market has to some extent been veiled by the brisk sale of foreclosed houses. In April, distressed transactions made up nearly half of all existing house and condo sales, the National Association of Realtors said. In May, they were a third. 
 That means traditional or so-called move-up sales, where the parties at both ends of the transaction are individuals instead of banks, are limping along at an annual rate of about three million, the lowest figure in a quarter-century. 
 ''Without further action, we're not going to stabilize,'' said Steve Murray of Real Trends, a Denver research group. ''The real estate recovery will take 10 or 12 years.''
 There are plenty of plans to unlock the market.
 Members of Congress are proposing to extend and enlarge an $8,000 credit for first-time buyers, which is due to expire in December. One bill would extend the credit to all buyers through next June. Another would extend it to all buyers through 2010. A third bill would expand it to $15,000 for all buyers.
 Some economists, noting that tax incentives helped stoke the boom, say these proposals should be shunned. ''When do you decide enough is enough?'' said the housing consultant Ivy Zelman. ''I don't want to feed the drug addict with more drugs.'' 
 The continuing deterioration in traditional real estate can be seen in the market in Massachusetts, where the economy, as measured by the unemployment rate, is better than in the nation as a whole.
 Yet sales of single-family homes in Massachusetts in May were tied for the lowest level for the month in the 22 years since reliable statistics were first assembled, according to Timothy M. Warren Jr. of the Warren Group, which collects real estate data. Condo sales were only marginally better. 
 As bleak as those numbers may be, they do not fully convey the troubles here in the upper half of the market. In towns where the median home price is above $500,000, sales during the first five months of the year were 21 percent below the level of 1990, when the state's population was smaller and the local economy equally in crisis.
 Real estate agents, always optimistic, had looked for some recovery this spring, the strongest season in the Northeast. Mr. Warren said he was more pessimistic, but was disappointed anyway. ''There's a lot of pent-up demand, but it takes nerves of steel to buy,'' he said.
 Dr. Komarovskaya, the rejected dentist, tries to be philosophical about missing out on that two-bedroom condo she wanted in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston. She understands that after years of mortgage abuse and fraud, the rules had to be tightened.
 But what might be an inevitable process in the larger economy is a burden on her personal finances. ''Renting is a waste of money,'' she said. Having no choice, she has dropped plans to buy and signed a new apartment lease.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Inna Komarovskaya's good credit and healthy down payment failed to help her get a mortgage for a condo in Boston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Home Sales Decline: Single-family home sales in Massachusetts for the month of May were at their lowest point this year since 1990. (Source: Warren Group) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); TAX LAW (76%); DENTISTRY (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



296 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Worries About Earnings Push the Markets Lower

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
Stocks fell slightly on Friday and the broad market closed lower for the fourth consecutive week as negative consumer confidence data and mixed earnings reports continued to thwart hopes that the spring rally -- and broader recovery -- would be sustained. Now the question is whether the economy is stabilizing or losing ground again. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average shed 36.65 points, or 0.45 percent, to close at 8,146.52. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.55 points, or 0.40 percent, to 879.13. The Nasdaq composite index closed at 1,756.03 after posting a gain of 3.48 points, or 0.20 percent.
 A 2.66 percent fall in shares of the energy giant Chevron weighed down the Dow at the end of a week when oil markets foundered. The company warned investors on Friday to expect much weaker second-quarter results compared with 2008 because of the slide of the dollar. Foreign currency losses totaled more than $400 million in April and May.
 Slack energy demand worldwide exacerbated the situation for American oil producers. Crude oil settled at $59.89 a barrel Friday, down 52 cents.
 Separately, a Reuters/University of Michigan survey that showed consumer sentiment at its lowest since March spoiled the possibility that a jolt of spending could restart the recovery. Consumers said they would hold off on buying cars and appliances, according to the survey.
 ''Now you need a rapid improvement in the job market to give consumer spending a chance,'' said Aaron Smith, a senior economist at Moodys.com. But Mr. Smith was pessimistic. He cautioned that consumers could remain tight-fisted. ''If spending breaks lower you're going to unwind a lot of the loosening in the financial market,'' he said. 
 Pessimism in equities drove investors toward low-risk government bonds. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 26/32, to 98 16/32, and the yield fell to 3.30 percent, from 3.40 percent late Thursday.
 The dollar also moved opposite stocks, rising by 0.50 percent against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies.
 Equity markets are now looking toward next week's quarterly results. 
 But so far, warned Bill Schultz, the chief investment officer of McQueen, Ball & Associates: ''You've got earnings that's making people very concerned about what's coming down the pike.''
 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.04. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 was down 31.49 points, or 0.76 percent, Germany's DAX index fell 53.76 points or 0.1.16 percent. France's CAC-40 lost 1.4 percent, or 42.84 points.
 One bit of good news Friday: the Commerce Department said the trade deficit narrowed to $26 billion in May, the lowest level in more than nine years. The report seemed to temper some of the market's losses. Yet, the reason for the narrowing of the deficit was primarily a sharp decrease in imports, an indication that consumers had cut their spending drastically. 
 General Motors emerged from bankruptcy protection faster than expected, after just a little over a month. Fritz Henderson, the chief executive, announced an overhaul of the company management and an array of new products for domestic and overseas markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



297 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: After Survival, a Journey To Self-Recovery

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
 A feral child still lives haunted within him, Samuel Pisar says, and mocks all his fitted suits, lovely furnishings and worldly success. 
 ''The little one with the sunken eyes and shaved head helps a lot,'' he said. ''He's very severe with me; he disapproves of so many things; he's a kind of conscience.''
 Mr. Pisar, now 80, an author, consultant and international lawyer, was 10 when his native Poland was swallowed by Hitler and Stalin. He somehow survived the death camps of Majdanek, Auschwitz and Dachau, emerging at 16, hardened and wild, his Polish family gone to ash.
 He spent a year and a half with older survivors as a hooligan and black marketeer in the American occupation zone of Germany, living high for revenge, riding a BMW motorcycle, selling Lucky Strikes and used coffee grounds stolen from the kitchens of the American occupying troops, reroasted and repackaged for the Germans. 
 He was rescued by a French aunt, and with the help of uncles in Australia he slowly created a life, one with extraordinary accomplishments: becoming an adviser on foreign economic policy to John F. Kennedy, whom he met at Harvard, and a confidant to Presidents Francois Mitterrand and Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France; establishing himself as a lawyer to movie stars and corporate executives; making lots of money and finding happiness in a family that extends between France and the United States; and becoming a citizen of the United States by an act of Congress. 
 Mr. Pisar, pressed to confront his carefully hidden demons by his second wife, Judith, and his children, wrote a memoir in 1979, ''Of Blood and Hope,'' a moving saga of the nearly unspeakable, of survival and self-recovery. ''I couldn't move around any more like a shadow,'' he said, ''with all these taboos.''
 He describes with relative openness how he was ''molded to survive in the death camps, but not the Ivy League.'' He survived by becoming pitiless and cruel, finding older protectors and ways to seem privileged in a hierarchy of despair, like persuading a prisoner-tailor to refashion a cap so that the stripes on the top perfectly met the stripes on the side. He was condemned to die at least twice, but managed to slip back into the general prison population, once convincing a guard that he was there only to wash the floor. 
 Mr. Pisar said he learned that ''if you followed the law then you were dead.'' He reacted like an animal, he said. ''I had to learn bad habits, to be good at lying and make instant judgments about people, what they were saying, what they really thought, and not just the guards and torturers, but my fellow prisoners, too,'' he said. ''I was a cute kid, and there were a lot of psychotics around.''
 But to rejoin the world, ''I had to wipe out the first 17 years of my life,'' he said. ''I muted the past. I didn't want to dabble in it. I turned to the future with a vengeance.''
 STILL, a taste of bitterness and a sense of distance, even of unworthiness, have persisted through most of his life, Mr. Pisar said in a series of interviews here. Even as he wrote about his liberation from Auschwitz, he noted that there were more people murdered in that one death camp on D-Day than there were Allied troops killed on the Normandy beaches ''on this, their longest day.''
 Years later, having been pressed by Judith's friend Leonard Bernstein, Mr. Pisar, like Job, has taken his arguments to God. Mr. Bernstein, always unhappy with the lyrics of the ''Kaddish'' Symphony No. 3 he wrote in 1963 and dedicated to the assassinated President Kennedy, asked Mr. Pisar, who had seen hell, to write them instead. Mr. Pisar refused, feeling that his talents were unequal to the music.
 But after Mr. Bernstein's death, and prompted by 9/11, Mr. Pisar finally accepted the task, writing a version of the Kaddish, the Jewish prayer for the dead, first performed in 2003.
 Mr. Pisar calls it ''A Dialogue with God.'' But he keeps refining the text -- he is always arguing with himself, said his daughter, Leah Pisar, among his first readers.
 With the same ''visceral voice I once raised against you as a skeletal kid'' at the edge of the gas chamber, he demands of God: ''Why do You abandon us? How can You allow such carnage? Do You even care?''
 Mr. Pisar describes the Jews heading for the gas ''with Your name on their lips,'' and says it imposes obligations on God, too. ''The Auschwitz number engraved on my arm reminds me of it every day,'' he said. ''And today, Father, I remind You!''
 He said he was no longer furious with God. But pressed, he said: ''I'm angry. And he may not even be there. But I love him, too. Because we have loved him for so many thousands of years.''
 Last month, Mr. Pisar performed his Kaddish for the first time in Israel, to a hushed audience at the Holocaust museum, Yad Vashem.
 THE concert was a memorial to the victims of the Warsaw ghetto, and it was also, to Leah Pisar, a sort of homecoming. ''It was so much more resonant there than elsewhere,'' she said. ''Yad Vashem is the place where one feels closest to those who perished. It was as if he was saying Kaddish for all the six million.'' 
 He likes to talk of the cunning child inside him. In May, in Bialystok, Poland, where he was born, he said, ''I am not sure which of my two voices is more authentic, or more relevant for survival in our crisis-ridden world.''
 He is not sure, but he suspects. His Kaddish is also an argument with other men about the degradation of the world in the name of big ideas. But it is also a memorial to his lost family, when he recites, ''My memory is the only tomb they have.'' 
 The family's tradition of public service continues. Leah Pisar worked in the State Department and White House under President Bill Clinton. His stepson, Antony J. Blinken, is national security adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. Mr. Pisar also has two daughters from his first marriage.
 The German government still pays him, as a survivor, $700 a month, ''but I've never been able to invest it in a normal way,'' he said. For all the money he has made and given away, ''that money is still intact.'' 
 He wrote that he would use it to create some physical memorial to his parents, ''and I will get around to it,'' he said uncomfortably. ''My children say to me, I have to do it,'' he said, ''and one day I will, sooner rather than later.''
 He talks of being open now, but he keeps much hidden. He says he is better with his grandchildren than his children. Even with Leah, he said, ''I was willing to tell her a little but not a lot -- I fenced with her a little.''
 Later, he said, ''I never spoke about the real horrors -- not even with the Germans.'' Then later: ''I remember every detail. But I don't suffer from it.'' And then he said: ''It helped me in life. And tragic as it was, it was a positive experience. I would never have been the way I am.''
 The Kaddish has liberated him, he said; he feels more at ease with the mystery of God. ''It's not just that he's waiting for me,'' Mr. Pisar said. ''I'm more at peace. I'm ready.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HOLOCAUST (75%); TORTURE (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); WRITERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); PRISONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (87%); GERMANY (87%); AUSTRALIA (76%); POLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



298 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: As Import Sales Slow, Trade Deficit Narrows

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit eased in May to its lowest level in almost a decade as exports jumped 1.6 percent while the recession continued to decrease the American appetite for imports. 
 According to Commerce Department data released on Friday, the difference in United States trade flows unexpectedly narrowed by 9.8 percent, to $26 billion from $28.8 billion, after economists anticipated that the deficit would widen to $30 billion. It was the smallest deficit since November 1999.
 Reflecting persistent weakness in global economic activity, United States imports were down 0.6 percent from April. Demand for auto parts from abroad has fallen sharply amid turmoil at Detroit's struggling automakers. Imports of foreign crude oil also dropped as fuel consumption remains subdued in an extended recession.
 The rise in exports was largely driven by sales of petroleum products, chemicals and industrial machinery. The figures were also helped by Boeing, which posted 20 orders for aircraft in May.
 ''More of our consumption in the U.S. has recently been from domestic sources,'' said Peter Kretzmer, a senior economist at Bank of America. ''All things equal, that boosts one's estimates at the margins of what happened to the G.D.P. in the second quarter.''
 The trade gap with China, a perennial irritant in relations, widened again in June by 4.4 percent to $17.5 billion, but the figure remains far less than the record deficit of $28 billion last October. 
 Also on Friday, the Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to 64.6, from 70.8 in June, as Americans continue to worry about the economy.
 As the world economy struggles to shake off the recession, world trade is expected to shrink by as much as 12 percent this year, the International Monetary Fund said, jeopardizing the futures of emerging economies in particular.
 Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, said this week that trade ''can and must be part of our efforts to stimulate a recovery'' of the world economy.
 Leaders at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Italy pledged on Thursday to renew efforts to complete the Doha round of world trade talks by the end of 2010. The negotiations, now in their eighth year, have been plagued by disputes over subsidies and tariffs between the advanced industrialized countries and developing economies.
 President Obama, on his first Group of 8 summit appearance, signaled his approval, raising hopes for some leaders.
 ''We have a new American government willing to enter into discussions through trade ministers,'' Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain was quoted as saying.
 But the United Nations and organizations like the International Monetary Fund have expressed fears that protectionist tendencies are on the rise in a replay of the Depression-era trade wars. Congressional lawmakers attached a ''Buy American'' provision to the $787 billion stimulus bill, requiring most materials used for stimulus projects be manufactured in the United States. Other large trade partners like China have enacted similar rules.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (85%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BOEING CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%); BAN KI-MOON (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



299 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: When the Fledglings Return to the Nest

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
The boomerang kids, grown-ups who come home to live with their parents anyway, are having their cultural moment.
 First came a book for parents, ''Mom, Can I Move Back In With You?'' Then, a book for the returning offspring: ''Boomerang Nation.'' There was even a reality show concept kicking around the halls of Viacom's TV Land channel. 
 Given the economic conditions, boomerangs may be turning up on your own doorstep soon. And with them come a host of unusual economic -- and parenting -- questions that you may not have considered. 
 Like, for instance, whether you should charge rent. ''We don't really have any formulas for what the appropriate amount of financial responsibility is that we should require,'' said Laura deBuys, whose son Jeb has been living with her or her former husband for the past year and a half. ''There's a wide range of opinion, from telling the child 'You're on your own' to not expecting anything from them.'' 
 There is a reason for this. Every child, parent and circumstance is different, so there are no one-size-fits-all solutions. But if you find yourself in this spot or think that you may soon, it's probably a good idea to consider now the questions that will surely arise. 
 So let's throw a few out there. 
 TAKE THEM IN AT ALL? Would you rather they be homeless? Tough love is tempting, but the practical consequences of it are less than palatable. 
 Given your own economic circumstances, you may not be able to afford another mouth to feed. But if forcing children to live on their own may lead to a bigger bailout later, it may not be economically smart.
 Besides, having kids at home again may help you save money. How? Well. ...
 SHOULD YOU CHARGE RENT? Theories vary widely and wildly. The issue, as Linda J. Abrahams, a lawyer in Northbrook, Ill., and a mother of a boomeranger, put it, isn't so much whether you charge. It's why the child has moved home in the first place.
 Cindy Wilusz, of Bloomfield, Conn., is a mother of four adult children, three of whom came home for at least a little while. She and her husband charged them nothing for room and board. ''It's not like they had money in the bank,'' she said. And it's not like they hadn't been contributing to their education. They'd taken on loans and worked many jobs. ''If it took them until age 40 to get out from under financially, they'd never have jump-started their lives.''
 Still, to give them gentle shove, she and her husband made it clear that the free lodging lasted only one year. All three children were out well before then. 
 When parents bring up rent, their children may not like it. ''We had screaming arguments about it,'' said Rachel Harrison, who lived at home in Larchmont, N.Y., for two stretches in recent years but is now on her own in Harlem. ''The $200 per month they wanted me to pay wouldn't even cover their electric bill, let alone any major contribution to the mortgage. It was a token.''
 Tokens may be appropriate for spoiled children or those who lack drive, but Ms. Harrison is neither. She had lived independently, both in Italy and in Atlanta, and was plenty motivated to get off the commuter train and move to the city. 
 Some parents don't see it this way at all, though. John Janicik, a lawyer in Chicago, and his wife welcomed their daughter Sarah back into their home in Clarendon Hills, Ill., even though she was already employed. But they let her know that she would pay rent, starting at a below-market figure that would slowly rise until it was above market.
 ''I'm aware of the circumstances where within the family there's the proverbial 35-year-old living at home,'' said Mr. Janicik, who paid his own parents rent at one point. ''How does it get to the point where the child didn't decide to move on? The bond between child and parent is so strong, it was easier for us in the abstract to say that this was the program.''
 REFUND THE RENT? Sarah Janicik thought she'd get it back. She did move into her own place after nine months or so, but the refund didn't happen.
 ''This was a real contribution to the cost of existing,'' her father said. ''I have a hard time seeing why that is something that should be returned.'' He added that if Sarah hadn't had a job or had some sort of special needs, the arrangement might have been different. 
 Other parents refund the money no matter the circumstance. They consider it a reward for good financial behavior, or a leg up on a future down payment. 
 HOW ABOUT FINANCIAL DAMAGE? It can happen. First, there's the potential harm to parents. Don't rob retirement funds to pay for a boomerang child's groceries if at all possible. You may have no choice but to ask your child to contribute. 
 The threat of real financial impact is high enough that Joe Paul Case, who runs the financial aid office at Amherst College, said that it was not unusual for parents to note on applications that they were supporting adult children, at home or elsewhere. 
 As for those children, the help can turn into a crutch very quickly. ''There's a sociological context that makes it harder for them to rebound,'' said Linda Perlman Gordon, the co-author, with Susan Morris Shaffer, of the boomerang book for parents. ''Parents who are actively engaged for longer periods of time can really disable their children in some way. They're just more easily defeated.''
 MANDATORY MONEY LESSONS? Again, it depends. ''I don't know how to make a budget,'' said Jeb Hastings, who left college 18 months ago but is going back soon. ''I'd imagine it's simple. There's this much in gas, and whatever.'' His father, John, chimed in immediately: ''That is all there is to it. It's a piece of a paper from a legal pad.''
 Once you get beyond the basics, it may start to get awkward. Handing someone a self-help book, say, is never easy. How do you approach it? ''I think you use what you've learned about the relationship over more than two decades,'' said Alissa Wilson, co-author of ''Practical Idealists,'' a guidebook for young adults who want to make a living doing good works. ''You know what pushes their buttons and need to present the information in a way that pushes the least amount of buttons.''
 Try starting a family book club and note that you, too, could use some remedial financial education or a brush-up at least. Beth Kobliner's ''Get a Financial Life,'' Ramit Sethi's ''I Will Teach You to be Rich'' or Liz Pulliam Weston's ''Easy Money'' will all help. 
 Just be careful with the amount of advice you dole out. Rachel Harrison's mother, Adrienne Weiss-Harrison, who is a pediatrician, suggests the following mantra: ''When you have adult children, you cannot tell them what to do. You can only tell them what you'll pay for. And if they don't need you to pay for it, then you can only hope that they ask for your advice and take it.''
 THEY WANT TO STAY HOME? Some adult children decide that living at home for a while is financially astute, even if they could afford to live elsewhere. They may be saving for graduate school or a down payment. For parents who can stomach having their empty nest invaded, this may not be a bad thing -- worth encouraging, even.
 But many elements need to be in place. It may work best if the child works 80-hour weeks or travels constantly. It may help if the parents are gone most weekends, or if the child crashes at the home of a paramour frequently. It helps, too, to have no siblings underfoot and a bathroom (and better yet, an entrance) of one's own. And, of course, the child needs to save the money as planned. If squabbles ensue, the child can always move out. 
 But if everyone gets along, these children eventually move out with a big pile of money in the bank. And that safety net makes it more likely they will never again have to move back in with you. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeb Hastings, right, left college 18 months ago and moved in with his father, John, in Pelham, N.Y. The number of ''boomerang kids'' is increasing.(pg. B1)
 ''I don't know how to make a budget,'' Jeb Hastings said. ''I'd imagine it's simple.'' His father, John, responded: ''It's a piece of a paper from a legal pad.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); PARENTING (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (57%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



300 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: University of California Makes Cuts After Reduction in State Financing

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
The University of California will use a combination of furloughs, deferred hiring and cuts in academic programs to make up for an $813 million reduction in state financing, its president, Mark G. Yudof, said Friday.
 Mr. Yudof said the actions amounted to a major retrenchment for the university, which has long been regarded as the nation's leading public university.
 ''The impact of this cut is devastating,'' Mr. Yudof said at a press briefing. ''There is no way that we are going to be able to look every student in the eye and say, 'Tomorrow, the University of California will be just the way it was yesterday.' '' 
 Most of the university's campuses will defer at least half of their planned faculty hirings, Mr. Yudof said, and the Berkeley campus expects to reduce faculty recruitment from the usual 100 positions a year to 10. 
 Chancellors from the individual campuses will present their cost-cutting plans next week to the state Board of Regents, which must vote on the entire budget. 
 Many of the planned cuts, and those already put into effect, impinge upon the university's academic offerings. 
 The Irvine campus has halted admission to its doctoral program in education, and its Latin American studies program is on hiatus. Class size is expected to increase 10 percent to 20 percent next year, while faculty and staff is expected to decline by at least 10 percent over the next five years. 
 At the Davis campus, the Medical Center has eliminated its liver transplant program, and in the division of humanities, arts and cultural studies, 44 courses and sections are expected to be cut.
 The University of California, Los Angeles, will close its Labor Center, and deans and faculty members have been told to reduce courses, majors and faculty size by 10 percent to 20 percent over the next year. The freshman enrollment target on the campus for the 2009 fiscal year may drop by as many as 500 students. 
 At the Santa Cruz campus, most general-education courses with fewer than 100 students enrolled have been canceled, along with the bachelor's degree in earth sciences and the minor in music. Creation of an environmental sciences major has been deferred. 
 The San Diego campus has eliminated senior seminars, a small-group experience for students, and curtailed freshman seminars. 
 The University of California has faced financial challenges for years, leading to bigger classes, fewer course offerings and deferred maintenance -- and caused some faculty members to defect to competing universities.
 Tuition has risen to more than $8,700 for in-state students this fall, more than doubling from the $3,859 nine years ago. 
 Systemwide, 724 staff members have been laid off, and there may be more, Mr. Yudof said, especially if unionized employees reject the furloughs. 
 The furloughs, to be implemented Sept. 1, will be systemwide, with some exceptions, including those whose jobs are fully financed by research grants. 
 ''It's important not to take money from enterprises that are really entrepreneurial,'' Mr. Yudof said, ''and it wouldn't help us with our deficit. Maybe this will encourage people to be entrepreneurial and go out and get those grants.'' 
 In response to urging from university employees, the furloughs are structured so that people who earn more take bigger pay cuts. Those earning less than $40,000 will have 11 furlough days, equivalent to a 4 percent pay cut, while those earning more than $240,000 will have 26 furlough days, which is about a 10 percent pay cut. Mr. Yudof said he expected that faculty members would not take furloughs on their teaching days.
 The university may also close for some additional days, as other California offices have done.
 Over all, Mr. Yudof said, furloughs and pay cuts will offset about a quarter of the $813 million in budget cuts, and previously announced increases in student fees will offset another quarter. About 40 percent will come from cuts decided on by chancellors at the individual campuses, and the remaining 10 percent from systemwide changes, including refinancing of debt, and further cuts in the president's office, where the budget has already been cut by a third. 
 The university's struggle is the latest and starkest example of the statewide effects of legislators' inability to come to an agreement with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger over how to deal with a $24 billion budget shortfall. The state's controller has been forced to send i.o.u.'s to many of the state's vendors and taxpayers. Most large banks said they would refuse to accept the warrants after Friday, leaving people and businesses to decide whether they will hold onto the warrants until they mature in October or try to find some other method of cashing them. 
 On Friday, much of state government shut down for the third monthly furlough day ordered by the governor to save money.
 Financing for the University of California system rose only 2 percent from 2001 to 2008, a period when enrollment grew 30 percent, and financing for state prisons, K-12 public schools and health and human services each grew by more than 40 percent according to a report from the outgoing chairman of the Board of Regents, Richard C. Blum. 
 At the briefing, the current chairman, Russell Gould, announced creation of a new University of California Commission on the Future, which he and Mr. Yudof will head. The commission will consider how to maintain access, quality and affordability in a tough economic climate, what delivery models for higher education make the most sense, how big the university should be, and how to maximize traditional and alternative revenue streams. 
 ''We're going to have to change the way we do business,'' Mr. Yudof said. 
 In an interview after the briefing, he said he would like the new commission to look into the possibility of an online University of California and alternatives to the current system of majors. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the University of California's loss of $813 million in state support, using information from the university, referred incorrectly to two programs affected by budget cuts. The Irvine campus has halted admissions to its education doctorate program for working professionals, known as Ed.D.; it has not discontinued its research-based Ph.D. in education. And while the Santa Cruz campus has canceled its bachelor of arts degree in earth sciences, it has not done so for its bachelor of science degree in that field. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (65%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



301 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Tangled Trade Talks

 BODY:
There are few things that could do more damage to the already battered global economy than an old-fashioned trade war. So we have been increasingly worried by the protectionist rhetoric and policies being espoused by politicians across the globe and in this country.
 Against this bleak backdrop, it is especially good news that the world's leading developed and developing nations have committed to complete a stalled global trade agreement (the so-called Doha Round) by next year. For that to happen, leaders -- especially in the United States, Europe, India, China and Brazil -- are going to have to muster real sense and political courage. 
 The World Trade Organization forecasts that exports from developed countries will fall 14 percent this year, while exports from developing nations will contract 7 percent. The collapse is particularly damaging for poor countries that are heavily dependent on exports. But it is also intensifying the downturn in many rich countries. Reviving trade is essential for economic recovery. 
 The talks, begun in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, had long been in limbo. They broke down last year after big developing countries -- China and India, in particular -- rejected demands from the wealthy nations that they lower tariffs on imports of agricultural and manufactured goods and open service sectors to more competition.
 But there are signs that the collapse in trade and the rising protectionist rhetoric have awoken many leaders to the advantages of strong international rules to keep trade channels open. This is particularly true of China, which has suddenly found its exports on the receiving end of tariff increases and antidumping suits.
 There is no guarantee that a deal can be pulled off. President Obama will have to provide lots of leadership to convince developing countries to make serious offers on market access, and to convince reluctant members of the United States Congress -- notably those within his own party -- that they will have to make concessions, too.
 Big developing countries have been reluctant to reduce tariff ceilings, allowing themselves the option to increase their tariffs at any moment. They have been unwilling to open service sectors, like accounting or electricity generation, to foreign competition. They insist on being able to increase their barriers to protect farmers against sharp increases in food imports from cheaper producers abroad. They must be willing to make concessions on these points. 
 The rich West will also have to give more. The United States and Europe must slash agricultural subsidies more aggressively and refrain from adding more. The United States will have to reduce its own agricultural barriers -- such as the one against Brazilian ethanol. It might have to offer more visas to professionals from countries like India.
 The Doha Round was originally conceived in the wake of the 9/11 attacks as a way to encourage development in the poorest countries by providing them access to export markets in the rich world. This is still its goal. 
 The Group of 8 industrialized nations took an important step on Thursday by following Mr. Obama's lead and pledging to invest $20 billion over three years to boost agricultural production in some of the world's poorest countries. We were made nervous by reports on Friday that suggested some contributors might already be rethinking their generosity. 
 So far, Mr. Obama has been reluctant to spend any political capital at home on trade. But it is important for the president to follow through. The talks opened in Doha were supposed to help the world's poorest countries. They have now acquired an even broader purpose: reviving global cooperation and the global economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); POLITICS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ALCOHOLS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (65%); AGRICULTURE (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (92%); QATAR (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



302 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Latin Alternative Music's Movers and Shakers Meet

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
The Argentine songwriter Juana Molina sang oohs and ahs and la-las on Wednesday evening at SummerStage, while loops of guitar and keyboard lines meshed and billowed in beautifully hypnotic patterns around her voice. Wordless vocals were one way to bypass any language barrier, the persistent but not insurmountable challenge for the performers at the 10th annual Latin Alternative Music Conference, which ends on Saturday.
 Since the conference started in 2000 it has become a showcase, strategy session, networking tool and pep rally. It brings together musicians and businesspeople who are devoted to music that straddles boundaries of style and nationality. 
 Josh Norek, who founded the conference with Tomas Cookman, said there were about 1,200 participants this year, a number that has held steady despite the recession and layoffs across the music business. ''In 2000, the goal might have been 'How can I get signed to a major label?,' '' he said. ''Now the questions are about self-promoting your band and getting it out there. Artists feel a lot more empowered than they did before.''
 Over its five nights the conference presents polyglot music from across the Americas and Spain, with concerts in New York City clubs and parks, including another free SummerStage concert on Saturday by the Puerto Rican hip-hop and reggaeton group Calle 13 and the Colombian group Bomba Estereo, which plays what it calls psychedelic cumbia. (It is replacing the Spanish songwriter Bebe on that bill.)
 There were, inevitably, performers who simply sounded like translations of English-language rock or pop, as well as many songwriters who used English lyrics for at least part of their repertories. Yet Latin alternative music's better impulse is not assimilation but a proud disregard for purism.
 Bomba Estereo's set at the Bowery Ballroom on Thursday night -- part of a six-band lineup -- was kaleidoscopic and danceable, mingling the clip-clop bounce of cumbia and another Colombian rhythm, champeta, with echoey guitar, reggae backbeats and the singing and rapping of Liliana Saumet. ''We are exploring the tradition, but in our independent way,'' said Simon Mejia, the band's guitarist, producer and composer. ''We're not thinking too much about the radio or making big hits. We want to break through the frontiers. 
 ''Our idea is to take our music to the whole world.''
 The conference brought plenty of other ingenious, resourceful music. Curumin, a singer from Sao Paulo, Brazil, shared Wednesday's SummerStage bill with Ms. Molina; he led a sparse three-man band -- bass, drums and sampler -- in tunes that casually bridged 1970s samba-soul, hip-hop and electronica, mingling sun-drenched hedonism with hints of politics. (Curumin is at S.O.B.'s on Wednesday.) 
 In a 10-act acoustic showcase at S.O.B.'s on Thursday night, Los Deliquentes, from Spain, played wry flamenco-pop that included passages for kazoo. The Mexican songwriter Natalia Lafourcade glided from lilting, Brazilian-tinged pop to abstract reveries in which her soprano voice started to swoop like a theremin. At the Mercury Lounge on Wednesday night, Los Hollywood (from Los Angeles) played bilingual punk-pop songs full of melodic hooks; Banda de Turistas, from Argentina, harked back to mid-1960s garage-rock and psychedelia; and Maluca, from New York City, revved up a techno-merengue-hip-hop hybrid complete with dance routines.
 On Tuesday night there was a quintuple bill of Latin heavy metal. And throughout the conference -- during its daytime sessions at the Roosevelt Hotel and between sets at concerts -- disc jockeys played some of the most joyfully multicultural hybrids of all: electronic dance music that segued from Mexican ranchera accordion to synthesizers, from Bollywood pop to hip-hop. Dance rhythms, one of Latin music's perpetual strengths, also leap past language barriers.
 Latin alternative music -- a purposely open-ended term -- has demographics in its favor, as the Hispanic minority in the United States grows and spreads beyond established urban centers. There's the promise of a growing bilingual audience for music that reflects its own American experience. Mr. Norek said he saw increasing geographic diversity at this year's conference, including aspiring Latin musicians from places like Denver, Nashville, Minneapolis and Orlando, Fla., well outside the music's old strongholds.
 Still, Latin alternative music hasn't become a Next Big Thing. More often than not it is stranded between commercial radio formats. ''It's not going to be exploding tomorrow and then gone nine months later,'' Mr. Cookman said. ''It's not about one song, one band, one dance move, one fashion. We don't need our Macarena moment.''
 Instead it has percolated slowly and determinedly, making inroads in varied ways: club nights, appearances on ''Austin City Limits,'' blogs like clubfonograma.com, and placements in commercials and soundtracks. (ABC's ''Ugly Betty'' is one television show that has been hospitable to Latin alternative music.) Mr. Norek recently began his own Latin alternative show on the Albany public radio station WEXT; the music has long been heard regularly at stations including KCRW in Santa Monica, Calif., and KUT in Austin, Tex., which are also Webcast. 
 Like other independent and niche categories, Latin alternative music now travels digitally; it is featured at online stores like iTunes Latino, Amazon and eMusic. Lately, more booking agencies have picked up Latin alternative bands. Mr. Cookman said he had noticed something new in this year's conference registrations: representatives of major Latin labels that had previously ignored the music.
 For Latin alternative music, the progress is not meteoric but incremental, which may make it more lasting. ''As long as we're not going backwards,'' Mr. Cookman said, ''it's a beautiful thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Liliana Saumet, vocalist with the Colombian group Bomba Estereo, during a set at the Bowery Ballroom on Thursday night.
 The Argentine songwriter Juana Molina performing at SummerStage on Wednesday night. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MAXON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SONG WRITING (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (51%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



303 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Unresolved Questions After Hearing With Geithner

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The issues were arcane and technical, but the hearing drew an extraordinary turnout: 110 members of Congress, many of whom waited three hours to ask questions for five minutes.
 All eyes were on Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, who testified Friday about the Obama administration's proposal to regulate the multitrillion-dollar market for financial derivatives, the hedging instruments that bankrupted the American International Group in September.
 But after three hours, many of the hardest questions remained unanswered. 
 Mr. Geithner vowed that the administration would impose tougher regulations on the freewheeling market for derivatives like credit-default swaps, which insure investors from losses on bond defaults. 
 He told lawmakers that the plan would require that all ''standardized'' instruments be traded on a regulated exchange or through a central clearinghouse. Participants would have to disclose more information about their transactions, and they would have to meet strict new capital requirements.
 The instruments that caused the greatest disruption last year, credit-default swaps tied to mortgage-backed securities, were traded ''over the counter'' rather than on exchanges and were almost entirely unregulated. Part of the problem was that many bond insurers, including A.I.G., sold credit-default swaps as a form of insurance with inadequate capital to cover their obligations.
 Mr. Geithner said the government would demand higher capital requirements for all the participants. It would allow customized, one-of-a-kind derivatives, but those would be subject to reporting requirements and higher capital requirements than exchange-traded instruments.
 But the Treasury secretary shed no new light on how the government would define ''standardized'' instruments. Supporters of over-the-counter derivatives say they come in infinite variations, because they are often meant to help companies hedge against specific risks.
 Mr. Geithner vowed to devise a ''broad definition'' of standardized instruments, adding that regulators would be required to carefully police any attempts at ''spurious customization.''
 The Treasury secretary said he wanted to leave many of the details to the actual regulators, rather than spell them out in legislation, warning that an overly specific law could give market participants opportunities to evade the rules.
 Mr. Geithner said he opposed banning all credit-default swaps, as proposed by Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California. He said such products ''provide an important economic function in helping companies and businesses across the country better hedge against risk.''
 Similarly, Mr. Geithner said he opposed a ban on holding ''naked derivatives,'' the practice of buying a derivative without owning the underlying securities. But he said the practices needed comprehensive oversight.
 Mr. Geithner did not come close to answering the question at the top of many lawmakers' minds: jurisdiction. At issue is which agency would oversee the new regulation, and which committees in Congress would draft the legislation.
 Until those questions are settled, lawmakers said they could not even begin to write a bill. 
 The huge turnout reflected the battle over jurisdiction. The hearing was held by both the House Financial Services Committee, which writes legislation for banks and oversees the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the House Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction over commodity futures trading and oversees the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 Lawmakers are pushing the Treasury Department to decide how to divide responsibilities. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has asked Mr. Geithner to come up with specific answers by the end of July, but the administration is not expected to produce a detailed proposal until September.
 Mr. Geithner alluded to the subterranean wrestling match, describing the choices in Solomonic terms. 
 ''We have been working with the S.E.C. and the C.F.T.C. over the past few months to develop a sensible allocation of duties,'' Mr. Geithner told lawmakers. ''We are striving to utilize each agency's expertise.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In testimony on Friday, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, vowed to impose tougher regulations on derivatives trading.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INSURANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (76%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); MAXINE WATERS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



304 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Leaders in House Seek to Tax Rich For Health Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
House Democrats will ask the wealthiest Americans to help pay for overhauling the health care system with a $550 billion income tax increase, the chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee said Friday. 
 The proposal calls for a surtax on individuals earning at least $280,000 in adjusted gross income and couples earning more than $350,000, said the chairman, Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York. 
 It would generate about $550 billion over 10 years to pay about half the cost of the legislation, Mr. Rangel said. As the proposal envisions it, the rest of the cost would be covered by lower spending on Medicare, the government health plan for the elderly, and other health care savings. 
 With the economy still hobbled and Republicans already sharpening their tax-and-spend attack line, the proposal is perhaps the clearest expression yet of the mandate that Democrats believe they won last November, when voters expanded Democratic majorities in Congress and sent Barack Obama to the White House.
 An aide to the House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, said she and other leaders were supportive of the idea, which they concluded would be their main way to pay for Mr. Obama's top policy priority: expanding health insurance coverage to virtually all Americans and curtailing the steep rise in the cost of medical care while improving patient outcomes. 
 But it remains unclear whether the Senate will go along. Most Republicans there, or perhaps all, oppose the idea, along with some centrist Democrats.
 Even in the more liberal House, where Democrats have a majority of 255 to 178, the tax proposal will most likely cost a substantial number of Democratic votes. The Blue Dog Coalition, made up of 52 fiscally conservative Democrats, expressed apprehension this week about the unfolding health care legislation, and that was before Mr. Rangel's announcement Friday.
 In recent days, efforts to advance the legislation in both houses of Congress have slowed. That development calls into question whether Democrats will be able to meet their goal of passing the bills before the August recess, reconciling differences between the two versions upon their return and then getting a final measure to Mr. Obama's desk by October.
 Among the biggest hurdles is the question of how to pay for the measure, which Mr. Obama has insisted not add to the national debt, a point he made again Friday at a news conference in Italy.
 ''Whatever bill is produced has to be paid for,'' he said. ''And that creates some difficulties, because people would like to get the good stuff without paying for it. And so there are going to be some tough negotiations in the days and weeks to come, but I'm confident that we're going to get it done.'' 
 ''I never believe anything is do-or-die,'' the president added, ''but I really want to get it done by the August recess.''
 Republicans, who have pummeled the Democrats over the $787 billion economic stimulus, pounced at word of the proposed tax increase, which they said would primarily hurt small-business owners. 
 ''In the middle of a serious recession, with unemployment nearing double digits, the last thing we need is a tax increase on small businesses, which will cost the American economy even more jobs,'' said Michael Steel, a spokesman for the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio. 
 The Senate health committee had hoped to approve its version of the health care legislation this week, but now expects to do that early next week. And Mr. Rangel and other House leaders had first said they would announce their plan to pay for the legislation on Thursday, only to be slowed by an array of disagreements. 
 But emerging from daylong committee negotiations Friday, Mr. Rangel said the income surtax would take effect in 2011 and begin at 1 percent of adjusted gross income -- earnings before deductions like those for mortgage interest and charitable contributions -- and would apply to individuals earning more than $280,000 and couples earning more than $350,000.
 The surtax would be increased for individuals earning more than $400,000 and couples earning more than $500,000, and step up again for individuals earning over $800,000 and couples earning above $1 million. The precise extent of these increases has not been announced.
 Mr. Rangel's committee is also planning to insert language that would raise the surtax in 2013 if expected cost savings in the health care system do not materialize. 
 Mr. Rangel said the surtax was the ''best way'' to raise money for the health care overhaul, and it seemed to highlight a broader unwillingness by Ms. Pelosi and her caucus to compromise on what they see as crucially needed improvements to the system, including the creation of a government-run insurance plan that would compete against private insurers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Charles B. Rangel will seek an income tax increase on the wealthy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ELDER HEALTH (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



305 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Human Equation

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
Charles M. Blow is off today.

 BODY:
Vice President Joe Biden told us this week that the Obama administration ''misread how bad the economy was'' in the immediate aftermath of the inauguration.
 Puh-leeze. Mr. Biden and President Obama won the election because the economy was cratering so badly there were fears we might be entering another depression. No one understood that better than the two of them. Mr. Obama tried to clean up the vice president's remarks by saying his team hadn't misread what was happening, but rather ''we had incomplete information.''
 That doesn't hold water, either. The president has got the second coming of the best and the brightest working for him down there in Washington (think of Larry Summers as the latter-day Robert McNamara), and they're crunching numbers every which way they can. They've got more than enough data. They understand the theories and the formulas as well as anyone. But they're not coming up with the right answers because they're missing the same thing that McNamara and his fellow technocrats were missing back in the 1960s: the human equation. 
 The crisis staring America in its face and threatening to bring it to its knees is unemployment. Joblessness. Why it is taking so long -- seemingly forever -- for our government officials to recognize the scope of this crisis and confront it directly is beyond me. 
 There are now five unemployed workers for every job opening in the U.S. The official unemployment rate is 9.5 percent, but that doesn't begin to tell the true story of the economic suffering. The roof is caving in on struggling American families that have already seen the value of their homes and retirement accounts put to the torch.
 At the present rate, upwards of seven million homes can be expected to fall into foreclosure this year and next. Welfare rolls are rising, according to a survey by The Wall Street Journal. The National Employment Law Project has pointed out that hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers will begin losing their jobless benefits, just about the only thing keeping them above water, by the end of the summer. 
 Virtually all of the job growth since the start of the 21st century (which was nothing to crow about) has vanished. If you include the men and women who are now working part time but would like to work full time, and those who have become so discouraged that they've stopped actively searching for work, you'll find that 16.5 percent of Americans are jobless or underemployed. Nearly everyone who is fortunate enough to have a job has a spouse or a parent or an in-law or a close friend who is desperate for employment.
 Anyone who believes that the Obama stimulus package will turn this jobs crisis around is deluded. It was too small, too weakened by tax cuts and not nearly focused enough on creating jobs. It's like trying to turn a battleship around with a canoe. Even if it were working perfectly, the stimulus would not come close to stemming the cascade of joblessness unleashed by this megarecession.
 I'd like to see the president go on television and, in a dramatic demonstration of real leadership, announce a plan geared toward increasing employment that is both big and visionary -- something on the scale of the Manhattan Project, or the interstate highway program or the Apollo spaceflight initiative.
 My choice would be a ''Rebuild America'' campaign that would put men and women to work repairing, maintaining, designing and rebuilding the nation's infrastructure in the broadest sense -- everything from roads and schools and the electrical power grid to innovative environmental initiatives and a sparkling new mass transportation network, including high-speed rail systems. 
 One of the ways of financing such an effort would be through the creation of a national infrastructure bank, which would provide federal investment capital for approved projects and use that money to leverage additional private investment. 
 There was a time when Americans could think on such a scale and get it done. We used to be better than any other nation on the planet at getting things done. It would be tragic if the 21st century turns out to be the time when that extraordinary can-do spirit disappears and we're left with nothing more meaningful and exciting than lusting after tax cuts and trying to pay off credit card debt.
 The joblessness the nation is experiencing is crushing any hope of a real economic recovery. With so many Americans maxed out on their credit cards and with the value of their homes deep in the tank, the only money available to spend in most cases is from paychecks. The best and the brightest in Washington may have a theory about how to get the economy booming without dealing with the employment crisis, but I'd like to see that theory work in the real world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); FAMILY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%); FORECLOSURE (62%); HOME PRICES (62%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (61%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



306 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CLINTON SEEKS 'AMNESTY' FOR 2 HELD BY NORTH KOREA
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the Obama administration was seeking ''amnesty'' for two American journalists imprisoned in North Korea, suggesting a willingness to admit the women's culpability to secure their freedom. PAGE A4 
 SOLDIER KILLS IRAQI DRIVER 
 An American soldier shot and killed an Iraqi truck driver who failed to stop in response to a signal on a highway north of Baghdad, a spokesman for the United States military said. PAGE A5 
 HONDURAN TALKS YIELD LITTLE
 The ousted president of Honduras and the man who replaced him at the head of the de facto government agreed to meet again, ''sometime soon,'' but little else was settled, after two days of talks in Costa Rica. PAGE A6
 AFRICA ASKS, 'WHY GHANA?'
 Amid the excitement over President Obama's first visit to sub-Saharan Africa since taking office, the debate over why he chose Ghana has become a hot topic in Africa. PAGE A6 
 CHINA RAISES TOLL IN CLASHES
 The death toll from the racial violence in Urumqi, China, rose to 184, the government announced through the state news media. PAGE A7 
 A LIFE SENTENCE IN FRANCE
 One of the most horrifying criminal cases in France ended with the conviction of Youssouf Fofana for kidnapping, torturing and killing a young Jewish man. PAGE A8 
 The Saturday Profile A8
 National
 BUDGET CUTS ARE ERODING PROGRESS IN JUVENILE JUSTICE
 Across the country, the recession has depleted coffers and prompted state and local governments to pare programs intended as alternatives to jailing juvenile lawbreakers. PAGE A9 
 FAMILIES CHECK ON GRAVES
 The Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip, Ill., was combed by people hoping their loved ones were not among the corpses -- at least 300 discovered so far -- that had been dug up in a scheme to resell plots. PAGE A9 
 CALIFORNIA SCHOOL CUTS BACK
 The University of California will use furloughs, deferred hiring and cuts in academic programs to make up for a $813 million decrease in state financing. PAGE A11 
 New York
 BLOOMBERG REPORTS LOSSES IN INVESTMENTS LAST YEAR
 Even Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the richest man in New York City, did not escape the recession unscathed. Over the last year, he has lost at least $10 million on his investments. PAGE A14 
 Gay Marriage Bill to Be Delayed A14 
 Globe Artwork Is Vandalized A14
 Obituaries
 ROBERT ISABELL, 57
 A floral designer and events planner, his shrewdly lavish aesthetic helped create the buzz around Studio 54. He made Kennedy weddings and many other events into occasions of glorious moment. PAGE B8 
 Business
 G.M. LEAVES BANKRUPTCY 
 And Plans to Thin Top Ranks
 Now that General Motors has emerged from bankruptcy, it faces its next hurdle: slimming down its management. More than 400 of the 1,300 executives in the United States will be asked to resign or retire. PAGE B1 
 FLYING BACK TO THE NEST
 Given the economic conditions, boomerang kids -- adult children who move back home -- may be turning up on your own doorstep soon. With them come unusual economic -- and parenting -- questions. PAGE B1 
 'Energy Shots' Are Selling Well B1
 UBS Open to Settling Tax Case B2 
 Sports
 FIGHTERS GO UNDER KNIFE TO PREVENT MORE BLEEDING
 A mixed martial arts fighter, Marcus Davis, has received stitches above his eyes 77 times. So, he had plastic surgery to limit the area's propensity to bleed, which may become more common. PAGE B9 
 HILL RE-SIGNS WITH SUNS
 Grant Hill will stay in Phoenix, leaving the Knicks still searching for a veteran leader, or anyone to take their millions. PAGE B10 
 Angels Are Hurt, But Resiliant B12 
 Arts
 UNSCRIPTED UPHEAVAL
 ''What I Thought I Knew,'' a new memoir by Alice Eve Cohen documents her medical travails, including her pregnancy 14 years after she was told she was infertile. PAGE C1 
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A17
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); SHOOTINGS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); BUDGETS (69%); CEMETERIES (68%); VANDALISM (66%); RACE & RACISM (66%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (64%); MARRIAGE (63%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (70%); XINJIANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); GHANA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); AFRICA (92%); IRAQ (91%); FRANCE (87%); COSTA RICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CHINA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



307 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: The Demise of Dignity in America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I enjoyed ''''In Search of Dignity,'' by David Brooks (column, July 7), reminding us of George Washington's dignity code and rectitude. Mr. Brooks compared this with the scandalous behavior of today's pathetic politicians.
 It's trite but true that mankind has always had a tension between desire and duty. I'm reminded of a quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson: ''Moral qualities rule the world, but at short distances, the senses are despotic.'' 
 Memo to today's randy representatives: Try harder!
 Frank G. Crotty Gloucester, Mass., July 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's column about dignity and its absence in American political life was both informative and graceful. But any analysis of the vulgar and meandering press conferences held by Govs. Mark Sanford and Sarah Palin has to be seen in the light of talk radio and its impact on the substance and even the style of the conservative conversation. 
 Anyone who wonders why they spoke so badly for so long has never listened to Limbaugh/Hannity/Beck/O'Reilly drone on for hours at a clip. 
 Anyone who found Mr. Sanford's confessions to be cringe-worthy beyond endurance has never listened to Rush Limbaugh reminisce about his dating life -- something he does with painful frequency. 
 While it's safe to assume that Mr. Sanford's muddled mea culpa may be a career-ender, the Alaska governor's peroration had all the hallmarks of an audition.
 Kevin McDonough Narrowsburg, N.Y., July 7, 2009
 The writer is a television critic for United Features Syndicate.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's search for dignity is misplaced. Dignity, as a social device, didn't survive World War II.
 Yet, while the criteria may be different, there are people who possess that hard-to-define quality called ''class,'' which is a practical manifestation of kindness, respect for others, proper upbringing and the everyday application of the Golden Rule.
 In his day, some derided the joke-telling Lincoln as undignified, yet no president had more class.
 What should concern Mr. Brooks is the vanishing of personal honor, in government, business and family, which frees powerful men to cheat on their wives and their taxes, exploit workers, lie to voters and cheat stockholders and consumers with impunity.
 Sheldon Bunin Jackson Heights, Queens, July 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 My children, who are in their 40s, still use Mr. and Mrs. to address my contemporaries. My son rises from the table when a woman arrives or leaves, removes his hat indoors and never wears a T-shirt in a restaurant at dinnertime. 
 Their father, now gone, would be proud. I hope they pass his lessons on to my grandchildren.
 Joy Styles Little Egg Harbor, N.J., July 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As David Brooks makes clear, George Washington's achievements were indeed remarkable. And his personal manner, which some said was icy cold, was impressive, especially in command.
 But one ''indignity'' stands above all for him and his ''Revolutionary Generation.'' They were at home buying, selling and keeping other human beings. Washington published notices offering rewards if they escaped.
 To write of Washington's spotless character and not address the stain of slavery seems specious at best.
 And a small historical note: No biographer, including Richard Brookhiser, is certain that the ''Rules of Civility and Decent Behavior in Company and Conversation that young Washington wrote out in his copy book weren't just his assigned penmanship practice.
 Kenneth C. Davis New York, July 7, 2009
 The writer is the author of ''Don't Know Much About History.'' 
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks presents a too limited depiction of the concept of dignity. Dignity is so much more than proper manners, which have cultural and class-based contours. A person need not be a George Washington, Joe DiMaggio or Martin Luther King Jr. to possess -- and convey -- dignity.
 Dignity can be either the superficial conduct or bearing of a person, or the inherent worthiness of a person. Not everyone has the social training or the same Western conception of proper behavior that would lead to the kind of persona held up by Mr. Brooks. Moreover, many people who are ''dignified'' in their outward manner are quite base in their motivations or covert dealings.
 Aaron Zisser Philadelphia, July 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I cannot agree with David Brooks's inclusion of Ronald Reagan in his list of ''dignified'' celebrities. For example, Mr. Brooks lists capitalism as one cause of the demise of dignity. Has there ever been anyone who was a greater torchbearer for cutthroat capitalism? 
 Mr. Reagan has been widely recognized as the father of the greed generation, which has humbled our economy. And his deliberate attack on welfare recipients is the direct antithesis of ''dignity.''
 Morton A. Winkel Carlsbad, Calif., July 8, 2009
 To the Editor:
 I was particularly struck by the last word of David Brooks's column -- ''self-mastery'' -- because it evoked memories of my 70-year-old report cards from elementary and junior high school when that was one of the many things evaluated by one's teacher. It was then considered important, but along with others like penmanship it seems to have fallen by the wayside. 
 Maybe self-mastery should be reintroduced as of equal importance to the usual subjects on modern-day report cards.
 Robert N. Rich Stamford, Conn., July 9, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIF PARSONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); NEWS SYNDICATION (78%); WRITERS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (73%); SARAH PALIN (53%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



308 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Obama Wins More Food Aid but Presses African Nations on Corruption

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and RACHEL DONADIO; Peter Baker reported from L'Aquila, Italy, and Accra, Ghana, and Rachel Donadio from Vatican City.

DATELINE: ACCRA, Ghana 

 BODY:
President Obama told African countries on Friday that the legacy of colonialism was not an excuse for failing to build prosperous, democratic societies even as he leaned on the world's richest nations to come up with billions of dollars more to feed the hungry.
 Just hours before he arrived here to begin his first trip as president to sub-Saharan Africa, Mr. Obama made a personal appeal to other leaders of the Group of 8 powers meeting in L'Aquila, Italy, for larger donations to the aid effort, citing his own family's experiences in Kenya. As a result, the initiative grew from $15 billion over three years, which was pledged coming into the summit meeting, to $20 billion.
 At a news conference afterward, Mr. Obama said that when his father came to the United States, his home country of Kenya had an economy as large as that of South Korea per capita. Today, he noted, Kenya remains impoverished and politically unstable, while South Korea has become an economic powerhouse. 
 ''There had been some talk about the legacies of colonialism and other policies by wealthier nations,'' he said, ''and without in any way diminishing that history, the point I made was that the South Korean government, working with the private sector and civil society, was able to create a set of institutions that provided transparency and accountability and efficiency that allowed for extraordinary economic progress, and that there was no reason why African countries could not do the same.''
 He also criticized the culture of corruption in some African countries, saying that those who wanted to start a business or get a job there ''still have to pay a bribe.'' While wealthy nations must help, he said, poorer countries ''have an obligation'' to reform themselves.
 Mr. Obama said his thinking had been affected in part by conversations with his relatives who still lived in Kenya. ''They themselves are not going hungry, but live in villages where hunger is real,'' he said. ''And so this is something that I understand in very personal terms.''
 Other American presidents have called on African countries to take more responsibility for their countries' problems and have pressed them to fight corruption, but none with Mr. Obama's background. Just one generation removed from Africa himself, he occupies a powerful place in the African consciousness.
 Mr. Obama left the Group of 8 summit meeting, held in this earthquake-rattled region, to head to the Vatican to meet Pope Benedict XVI. In a 30-minute tete-a-tete, the two discussed some of the themes of the summit meeting, including international development aid and immigration, but also Middle East peace and questions of bioethics.
 Although they diverge over issues like abortion and stem cell research, the Vatican and the Obama administration share common ground on some social issues. ''We hope to build strong relations between our countries,'' Mr. Obama said after the meeting in the papal library.
 At his earlier news conference, Mr. Obama set September as a deadline for Iran to negotiate about its nuclear development program and declared without elaborating that if it did not, ''We need to take further steps.'' 
 But as Mr. Obama hailed progress with Russia during a stop in Moscow this week, President Dmitri A. Medvedev returned to sharper rhetoric about American missile defense plans. In Moscow, he repeated a past threat to deploy short-range missiles in the western enclave of Kaliningrad if Mr. Obama proceeded with an antimissile project in Poland and the Czech Republic.
 Moreover, just days after saying at Mr. Obama's side that ''no one is saying that missile defense is harmful in itself or that it poses a threat to someone,'' Mr. Medvedev said Friday that missile defense was ''harmful'' and ''threatening to Russia.''
 The food aid initiative, agreed upon at the Group of 8 summit meeting, is intended to transform traditional aid to poorer countries beyond simply donated produce, grains and meats to assistance building infrastructure and training farmers to grow their own food and get it to market more efficiently.
 Despite Mr. Obama's efforts to boost the program, it remained unclear how much was actually new money. 
 ''The sums just aren't adding up,'' said Otive Igbuzor, head of ActionAid's hunger campaign. ''Given the G-8's record on delivery, this is still very much a work in progress. So far they have been counting not just apples and oranges but more like apples, oranges, cauliflowers and beets.''
 Daniel M. Price, who was President George W. Bush's chief Group of 8 negotiator, said the initiative built on progress made in recent years, but faced some of the same challenges. 
 ''Two significant obstacles are Congressional resistance to local purchases for food aid and European resistance to opening their markets to the products of biotechnology,'' said Mr. Price. 
 For his first trip to the Vatican, Mr. Obama was joined by his wife, Michelle, and their two daughters, Malia, 11, and Sasha, 8, all three of whom wore black dresses and black silk veils covering their hair. 
 The Obamas shook the pope's hand, and some of the president's Catholic aides kissed his ring. Then the president and the pontiff sat down without the family.
 The meeting came just days after Benedict released his latest encyclical, ''Caritas in Veritate,'' which calls for more ethics in business and represents the church's latest thinking about the economy in a globalized world. 
 Mr. Obama met separately with the Vatican secretary of State, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone. ''They talked about the encyclical and how some of the issues raised in it are in keeping with some of the priorities of the Obama administration,'' said a person who was present but requested anonymity to discuss a private meeting. 
 Mr. Obama gave Benedict a letter from Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who is battling brain cancer, and the president asked the pope to pray for him. 
 Benedict gave Mr. Obama a mosaic depicting Saint Peter's Basilica, a leather-bound and signed copy of ''Caritas in Veritate,'' and a copy of ''Dignitas Personae,'' or ''The Dignity of the Person,'' the church's latest document on bioethics, released in December.
 Some observers saw this last gift as a victory for Catholic bishops in the United States, who have been vocal in their criticism of Mr. Obama on issues like abortion.
 After accepting it, Mr. Obama remarked that it would give him ''some reading on the flight'' to Ghana. 
 When Mr. Obama landed Friday night in Accra, the capital of Ghana, people packed the streets around the airport hoping to see him. 
 ''It's a great moment for Ghana and Africa,'' said a bus driver, Emmanuel Tsawe, who covered his 43-seat bus with Obama posters, Reuters reported. ''We have to celebrate our own.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A vendor on Friday hawked American flags imprinted with the face of President Obama in Accra, Ghana, where Mr. Obama arrived for his first visit at president.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA BLACKWELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4)
 President Obama and Michelle Obama with Pope Benedict XVI at the Vatican on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ETHICS (71%); BRIBERY (64%); RELIGION (62%); BIOETHICS (61%); IMMIGRATION (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (97%); GHANA (94%); KENYA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ITALY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



309 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: With Senate Astir, Governor Will Delay Same-Sex Marriage Bill

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson will delay his plan to force a vote on a bill to legalize same-sex marriage until early September because the Senate is too unsettled now to take it up, his spokesman said on Friday.
 The governor had vowed three weeks ago to force the senators to take up the matter before they left for their summer break. But the Democrats were struggling to reorganize themselves on Friday, a day after they reclaimed control of the Senate and ended a bitter leadership feud that had halted action in the chamber for more than a month. 
 ''Governor Paterson believes that marriage equality is an important civil rights issue and will be working with Senate leaders to move the process forward,'' said the spokesman, Peter E. Kauffmann, adding that the governor was more immediately focused on the state's dwindling tax revenues. 
 Mr. Kauffmann said the governor would probably call a special legislative session in early September so lawmakers could close an anticipated hole in the state's budget. 
 ''At that time,'' Mr. Kauffmann said, ''he will also work with legislative leaders to include additional issues that were not addressed in regular session, such as unemployment insurance, marriage equality and ethics reform.'' 
 Senate Democrats are unlikely to take up the marriage bill on their own. They remain deeply divided and, in many cases, estranged from one another, after the infighting and personal attacks of the nearly five-week leadership battle. 
 Democratic leaders said they would return to the capital next Wednesday and Thursday to conclude the legislative session but would avoid the most divisive issues. 
 ''There was a general consensus that we wouldn't take on extremely controversial bills in the next week,'' said Pedro Espada Jr., who was named Senate majority leader on Thursday. He added, ''There's a point that was reached and exceeded in terms of the exhaustion factor for the institution as a whole.'' 
 Notable bills whose fate remains unclear include a measure that would allow Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to retain control over New York City's public schools and legislation to expand the city's rent control laws. 
 Lawmakers were negotiating with the city on Friday to amend mayoral control legislation supported by Mr. Bloomberg. Senator John L. Sampson, the leader of the Democratic caucus, supports a greater role for parents in the school system. 
 Mr. Espada said that he expected the Senate to take up the mayoral control measure next week, and that bills intended to bolster rent control laws were likely to be shelved, at least for now. Mr. Espada and other top Democrats have forged close ties to the real estate industry. 
 On same-sex marriage, several senators said privately that the caucus was reluctant to take it up because of the strident opposition of Senator Ruben Diaz Sr., a Bronx Democrat and Pentecostal minister. With the caucus holding a tenuous single-seat majority, there is a focus on keeping members happy. 
 ''We just got unity,'' Mr. Diaz said in an interview when asked about the marriage issue. ''Don't start to un-unify us. Let us have some kind of honeymoon.''
 Last month, the governor, a champion of same-sex marriage rights, vowed to make sure that the Senate voted on the issue before breaking for the summer. ''It has always been my intention to see same-sex marriage come to the floor,'' he said on June 21, adding, ''I don't want there to be any confusion.''
 Mr. Paterson declined to be interviewed about his shift in plans.
 The Senate stalemate ended on Thursday after Mr. Espada, of the Bronx, abandoned an alliance with the Republicans. He returns to a caucus bitterly divided along racial lines and in the throes of reorganization. 
 Under a new leadership deal, Mr. Sampson, of Brooklyn, is the effective leader of the Senate and Mr. Espada has the vaguely defined title of majority leader. Malcolm A. Smith of Queens, the former Democratic leader, will remain as Senate president for what senators describe as a transition period. 
 Other bills that may be taken up include measures to overhaul the state's embattled ethics oversight panel, the Commission on Public Integrity, and to provide less generous pension benefits to new public workers. Democrats are also negotiating with Republicans, in fits and starts, over rule changes to make the Senate operate more fairly. 
 ''I don't think we're going to have a very ambitious agenda,'' said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat. He added, ''Under the present circumstances, with all of the breakdowns in the system and the traumatized personal relationships, I think most of the senators would like to pass the things we have to pass and get out of town.'' 
 The Senate resumed business late Thursday, and senators stayed until about 2 a.m. Friday to pass largely uncontroversial bills. 
 Senators were in a feisty mood. Some criticized the governor as taking an unusually hard line against them over the last month. And they took the rare step of voting down, by a 35-to-27 vote, a measure backed by Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli that would have allowed local governments to borrow state money to pay their pension bills. 
 The vote was widely seen as a rebuke to Mr. DiNapoli, who had withheld the paychecks and travel vouchers of senators in recent days to try to prod them to end their standoff. There was broad laughter in the chamber after the bill was defeated. 
 Senators concluded by approving a sales tax increase for New York City, raising the tax by one-half of a percentage point, to 8.875 percent. The stalemate delayed passage of the bill, costing the city an estimated $60 million. 
 A number of Democrats criticized the measure as unfairly burdensome to the poor. Senator Liz Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat, said the Senate should let the city balance its own budget.
 ''We, as we know, have our own headaches here running our state government,'' Ms. Krueger said. ''I'm not sure we're up to taking on, solving the problems of, every local government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democratic senators voting Thursday night to recognize Pedro Espada Jr. of the Bronx as majority leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (92%); MARRIAGE LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ETHICS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (88%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



310 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Even Mayor Tightens Belt Amid Losses In Market

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
His wealth has seemingly defied gravity over the last decade, allowing him to buy up everything in sight.
 New town house? Why not. TV air time? How about two straight months of it? 
 But not even Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the richest man in New York City, could escape the worst recession since you-know-when. Over the last year, he has lost at least $10 million on his investments, according to his latest tax return and financial-disclosure form. 
 And so even Mr. Bloomberg is now slumming it, billionaire style. He is renting out all or part of his Florida vacation home and -- what's this? -- cutting back on household help. 
 The mayor, who owns seven homes -- and one very profitable media company that bears his name -- is not exactly panicking these days. 
 He was not a victim of the much-maligned Ponzi schemes that foiled some of his friends, and his holdings -- all $16 billion of it, at last count -- appear to be a widely diversified mix of real estate, stocks and bonds. 
 But ''like everyone else invested in the stock market last year, the mayor lost money,'' said his press secretary, Stu Loeser. 
 Just how much he lost is unclear, given the peculiar, highly controlled manner in which Mr. Bloomberg discloses his finances. For two hours on Friday, as they have in years past, his aides made his annual tax return available to members of the news media, but forbade them from making copies. 
 The returns were modified for presentation to the media, showing earnings and losses not as specific dollar amounts, but as ranges represented by the letters A ($1,000 to $5,000) through G ($500,000 to the moon). 
 Once decoded, his tax return showed losses of more than $500,000 in at least 17 investment funds, whose focus ranged from the health care industry to corporations in Europe. For years, Mr. Bloomberg has invested most of his money with Quadrangle, a private equity firm overseen by a friend, Steven Rattner, who is widely regarded as master financier (and left Wall Street to become an adviser to President Obama this year.)
 But Mr. Rattner's handiwork did not spare Mr. Bloomberg losses from his investments with Quadrangle, which appear as a series of G's in the mayor's tax form. 
 ''Bloomberg was diversified,'' said Tony Guernsey, the head of national wealth management at Wilmington Trust. ''But diversification failed last year.''
 Mr. Bloomberg did manage to wring some earnings out of the stock market in 2008, from dividends and interest (which, when you invest tens of millions of dollars, starts to add up.)
 His tax forms show income of more than $500,000 each from investments held by big institutions like J.P. Morgan, Deutsche Bank, Smith Barney and Bank of America. That is $2 million alone, for those keeping count at home. 
 And a horse racing-victory by his daughter, Georgina, on a horse he owns, brought in at least $1,000. 
 Even so, Mr. Bloomberg has reduced his spending on personal staff members. This year, the payroll taxes for such employees fell to between $100,000 and $250,000 down from $250,000 to $500,000 a year earlier. Mr. Bloomberg's aides declined to say how many people the mayor employs on his personal staff.
 ''He could have fired a chef, or sold a boat'' and let go its staff, Mr. Guernsey speculated.
 And for the first time since he became mayor, Mr. Bloomberg is renting out space in a vacation home. The tax return shows he charged between $1,000 and $4,999 for use of his home in Wellington, Fla.
 Documents show that the tenants are Heather Hays and Hannah Islop, two professional equestrians. Mr. Loeser, the mayor's spokesman, said he did not know whether the women had rented space in the house or, say, a horse stable on the property. 
 Despite his stock market losses, Mr. Bloomberg's charitable donations increased over the last year, the documents showed. In 2007, he gave $205 million to 1,135 groups. In 2008, he gave $235 million to 1,221 organizations. 
 Mr. Bloomberg guards his privacy intensely, and the arrangement under which he made his returns available underscored his discomfort. About 10 reporters were let into a conference room at Geller & Co., the accounting firm the mayor uses. The shades were drawn and two security guards posted outside. When reporters left the room, they were asked by Mr. Loeser if they were taking any copies of the documents with them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BONDS (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); PONZI SCHEMES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); STEVEN RATTNER (53%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



311 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: A Strongman Is China's Rock In Ethnic Strife

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Jonathan Ansfield and Xiyun Yang contributed reporting from Beijing, and Edward Wong from Urumqi.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
As ethnic Han gangs roamed the streets of Urumqi on Tuesday at dusk, seeking revenge against Muslim Uighur rioters who killed scores of Han two nights earlier, a balding Communist Party bureaucrat abruptly appeared on the city's television screens to call for calm.
 The nine-minute speech by the bureaucrat, Wang Lequan, was mostly government boilerplate: the riots were no homegrown problem, but ''a massive conspiracy'' to sabotage ethnic unity; Urumqi citizens should ''point the spear toward hostile forces at home and abroad,'' not at their neighbors; attacks on Han or Uighurs alike were heartbreaking.
 Then he turned to the Han who were on the streets, repaying the riots' blood debt. ''Comrades, to start with, such action is fundamentally not necessary,'' he told them briskly. ''Our dictatorial force is fully able to knock out the evildoers, so there is no need to take such action.'' 
 Mr. Wang, 64, the Communist Party secretary and absolute power in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, is largely unknown outside China, and until lately stayed in the shadows even at home. But China's leadership elite, and perhaps especially his patron, President Hu Jintao, have put their faith in him: they have let him run Xinjiang for 15 years, well beyond the usually strict limit of a decade in one powerful post. They have elevated him to the Politburo, the ruling party's inner sanctum.
 They have made him their go-to expert on policies toward minorities, which account for the more than 100 million of China's 1.3 billion citizens who are not ethnically classified as Han. Those in power are reputed to have given him leading roles on senior advisory groups that coordinate and oversee ethnic policies. They have placed his protege, Xinjiang's former deputy party boss, in charge of restive Tibet.
 They have done all this, those who watch Mr. Wang say, because of performances like the one on Urumqi television.
 The government media may call this week's rioting the worst outbreak of ethnic violence in recent Chinese history, killing at least 184 and injuring more than 1,000. But Mr. Wang is fully able to knock out the evildoers. He did so in 1997, quelling riots in Yining, near the Kazakhstan border, at a cost in lives that remains unknown.
 Iron fist and velvet glove, he has suppressed Islam, welcomed industry, marginalized the Uighur language, built roads and rail links to the outside world, and spied on, arrested and jailed countless minority citizens in the name of stopping terrorism and subsuming Uighurs (pronounced WEE-gers) into a greater China.
 Even his detractors allow that he has done a masterful job. His nickname is ''the stability secretary'' -- a tribute to his ability to step into chaos and haul it to order.
 ''He consolidated a piece of territory that is one-sixth of China, and for centuries has been a headache for Beijing in terms of ethnic trouble and stability,'' said Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher based in Hong Kong for the advocacy group Human Rights Watch and a sharp critic of Mr. Wang's ethnic policies. ''He firmly rammed into the ground the state's control there. This is something that has weight in the political system in China.''
 A signal question now is whether it will continue to have weight. For China is entering a period of backroom political jockeying, as Communist leaders prepare to name successors in 2012 to President Hu and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao. Some China analysts suspect that the violence in Xinjiang, and in Tibet last year, may become weapons in the struggle over China's future.
 At a simple level, the question is whether Beijing's leadership will judge the quashing of riots in China's two least-tamed regions as military successes or policy failures. But Chinese politics are rarely simple; they are a tangle of alliances based on loyalty, self-interest and ideology. Mr. Wang's success or failure will be shared by his friends and mentors, and at the top of that list is Mr. Hu.
 As leader of the influential Communist Youth League in the mid-1980s, Mr. Hu recruited talented league members as allies, including Mr. Wang, who at the time ran the group's operations in Shandong Province, in eastern China. As president, Mr. Hu has moved dozens of league officials into the Politburo and other top government posts.
 Mr. Wang and Mr. Hu share a second tie: Mr. Hu was the party boss in Tibet when Mr. Wang was moved from Shandong to Xinjiang in 1991. They embrace a hard line on minority issues. Mr. Hu's sudden elevation to the top echelons of power in 1992 was sped by his swift action in crushing an uprising in Tibet in 1989. 
 Some China scholars say they suspect that Mr. Hu's abrupt return to Beijing this week from an economic summit meeting in Italy was a mission to shore up support among Politburo members and to ensure that the riots out west did not lead to political conflict within the leadership. 
 Yet it is not at all clear that the Xinjiang riots will be viewed as a black mark. China's leaders see success and failure very differently from, say, American leaders.
 ''No one is going to engage in any fundamental rethink of policies toward ethnic minorities unless those policies fail to produce stability,'' said Russell Leigh Moses, a Beijing analyst who closely follows issues in China's leadership elite. But in Politburo terms, stability has a special meaning.
 ''It's not about stability in the streets,'' he added. ''It's about legitimacy.''
 Mr. Wang has also amassed his own political capital, much of it based on his reputation as an efficient, if pitiless, troubleshooter of Beijing's most daunting problems.
 Mr. Wang ''is one of the major figures in the hard-line faction who thinks that more than an economic downturn, ethnic issues are the potential Achilles' heel of this regime,'' Mr. Moses said.
 Mr. Wang was born in Shandong, China's industrial and petroleum capital. At 21, he was sent into the countryside as a laborer during the Cultural Revolution. When he returned in 1966, he joined the Communist Party and began a 25-year rise to vice governor.
 His familiarity with the oil industry may have played a role in his transfer to Xinjiang, an oil-rich region. But he made his mark there by combining relentless economic development with punishing social policies to remake Turkic Xinjiang in Han China's image.
 Mr. Wang arrived in Xinjiang as the Soviet Union was dissolving, its central Asian pieces shedding their colonial chains. Millions of Han citizens transplanted by Mao after China's army occupied the region in 1949 were leaving. Beijing feared that Xinjiang's growing Muslim Uighur population would try to follow its Soviet neighbors into independence. 
 Mr. Wang's antidote was a heavy dose of modernization for the ancient Uighur culture. He opened the region's oil and gas fields to drilling, laid pipelines east to the Chinese heartland and west to Kazakhstan, and turned the Production and Construction Corps, a creaky make-work project for mustered-out Han soldiers, into a moneymaker listed on the Shanghai stock exchange.
 Han workers began flowing back, lured by industry and government jobs that Uighurs say were disproportionately parceled out to Han migrants. During the 1990s, Mr. Bequelin of Human Rights Watch said, about two million Han relocated to Xinjiang.
 At the same time, Mr. Wang tightly constrained Uighur culture and religion. He substituted Mandarin for Uighur in primary schools, saying minority languages were ''out of step with the 21st century,'' and banned or restricted Islamic practices among government workers, including the wearing of beards and head scarves and rituals like fasting and praying while on the job.
 Yet Mr. Wang's efforts intensified after the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States. Within months, he began a campaign against terrorism and separatism that he linked to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a little-known Uighur group. The Bush administration agreed, adding the group to its list of allies of Al Qaeda in 2002.
 In later years, Xinjiang waged a series of ''strike hard'' campaigns, dragnets that swept up thousands of Uighurs accused of terrorism or religious extremism. 
 The same year that the campaign began, Mr. Hu rewarded Mr. Wang with a Politburo seat.
 ''Wang Lequan came in and cracked heads, launched a 'strike hard' campaign, and lo and behold, he gets elevated to the Politburo,'' said Dru C. Gladney, a China expert and president of the Pacific Basin Institute at Pomona College. 
 Now that Xinjiang has exploded in violence, Western critics may contend that Mr. Wang's hard-nosed rule has failed, much as urban race riots in 1960s America were seen as a failure of social and legal policies then.
 As yet, there is no sign such arguments will move Beijing's leaders.
 Mr. Wang's deputy in Xinjiang, Zhang Qingli, became party secretary in Tibet in 2005 and quickly became known for the same unbending policies that are Mr. Wang's hallmark. In 2008, Tibet suffered its worst unrest in decades. Today, Mr. Zhang sits on the party's central committee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wang Lequan, left, Communist Party secretary in Xinjiang, and Nuer Baikeli, Xinjiang governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLARO CORTES IV/REUTERS)(A7) MAP: Minorities in China China's ethnic minority groups are concentrated in inland border regions, far from economically prosperous areas to the east. (Source: China Data Center at the University of Michigan) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); RELIGION (78%); TERRORISM (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); ARRESTS (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) XINJIANG, CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); TIBET (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



312 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: China's Reliance on Coal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman reports that China has big plans for clean power generation (''Can I Clean Your Clock?,'' column, July 5). Not only is China investing in solar, wind, nuclear and advanced battery technologies, but it also set a target to reduce its energy intensity -- the amount of energy it uses per unit of economic output -- by 20 percent in five years. 
 Acknowledging China's commitment to clean energy is commendable. But the fact remains that China is hooked on coal, and that's bad for the planet.
 China is the world's biggest consumer of coal. By 2030, China's reliance on coal for electricity production will more than double over 2006 levels. Alternative energy will play a small role in China's energy profile for years to come even as its greenhouse gas emissions grow rapidly.
 Mr. Friedman warns that as China's clean energy program picks up speed, China may ''clean our clock.'' When that day arrives, America may be more concerned about adapting to life on a hot planet than about winning the clean energy race.
 Matthew R. Auer Bloomington, Ind., July 5, 2009
 The writer is a professor of international environmental policy at the School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (90%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



313 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Controversially Appointed Senator Will Not Seek Election

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Almost as suddenly as Roland W. Burris, 71, emerged last winter from what seemed a comfortable political retirement to accept a controversial appointment to the United States Senate, he announced on Friday that he would return to that retirement after next year.
 ''I love serving in the United States Senate -- make no mistake about that,'' Mr. Burris, a Democrat, told supporters gathered in a hotel here, explaining why he will not seek election to President Obama's former Senate seat in 2010. 
 ''Political races have become far too expensive in this country,'' he said, adding at another point, ''In making this decision I was called to choose between spending my time raising funds or spending my time raising issues for my state.''
 It has been a peculiar, frenetic seven months for Mr. Burris, who, in three decades as a politician in this state, had sometimes struggled to attract attention but who seemed unable to avoid it lately. 
 Since December, the lasting public images of Mr. Burris, a former attorney general of Illinois and the first African-American elected to statewide office here, had rarely involved policies: Mr. Burris standing beside Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich (by then charged with trying to sell the appointment to fill Mr. Obama's unfinished Senate term) as Mr. Burris was picked for the job; Mr. Burris waiting in the rain at the Capitol in Washington until the powers inside agreed to allow him in; Mr. Burris answering tense questions about investigations into his ties to Mr. Blagojevich and how he got the appointment. 
 In Washington, Mr. Burris often appeared a lonely figure, smiling but mildly uncertain how to navigate the place, and ignored at times by colleagues milling around between votes. Asked his top accomplishments so far, aides cited Mr. Burris's vote in favor of the stimulus package, his introduction of legislation to improve accountability for the distribution of stimulus money in states, and his work on behalf of veterans on a Senate committee.
 Earlier, Mr. Burris had offered hints that he might run for the seat in 2010, setting up a Web site (http://supportburris.com/) that seemed to suggest the possibility, but donations were scarce. He is known for his ambition, with earlier campaigns for governor and a mausoleum he has already erected in this city that lists his accomplishments and titles beneath the carved words ''Trail Blazer.''
 Still, to political analysts here, Mr. Burris's decision was mostly predictable, a reflection of how the general public had never seemed to get past the way he arrived in the Senate in the first place. 
 ''This would continue to be a national joke,'' Don Rose, a longtime political consultant here, said. ''He was being advised by many people not to run, and I think he just made the wise personal decision.''
 In a way, the decision did little to affect the lineup of possible candidates flirting with seeking the seat. If anything, Mr. Rose said, it may help other Democrats, who have feared that any reminders of the scandal around Mr. Blagojevich, a Democrat, could help Republicans in several 2010 races. 
 Inside the hotel here, supporters said they wished that Mr. Burris would change his mind, several noting that he is the only African American in the Senate.
 ''Run, Roland, run!'' several chanted, as Mr. Burris, who took no questions from the reporters in the back, waited for quiet. ''Don't do it!'' a supporter called out, as he began to speak. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Roland W. Burris, Democrat of Illinois, announcing he will not run in 2010 for the seat vacated by President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM PRISCHING/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: ROLAND BURRIS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



314 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: A Trip to the Woodshed for Biggest U.S. Mortgage Servicers

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Remember that infamous meeting last October at the Treasury Department, the one where then-Secretary Henry Paulson locked the chief executives of the nation's nine largest financial institutions in a room, and wouldn't let them out until they agreed to accept billions of dollars in government bailout money -- whether they wanted it or not?
 O.K., that's a bit of an exaggeration. But I was reminded of that meeting on Thursday night when I was shown a letter that the administration had just sent out calling for yet another big meeting at Treasury with yet another sector of the financial industry. Signed by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Shaun Donovan, the housing and urban development secretary, the letter demanded that representatives from the top 25 mortgage servicers assemble in Washington on July 28. It is likely to be every bit as painful for them as that Paulson meeting last October was for the bank C.E.O.'s. 
 The subject of the meeting is going to be loan modifications. Specifically, the government is going to be asking -- in none-too-friendly fashion -- why the nation's big servicers aren't doing more to modify loans for homeowners who are in danger of defaulting on their mortgages. Back in the spring, after all, they all signed onto the administration's new Making Home Affordable program, which uses a series of incentives -- not the least of which is $1,000 to the servicers for every mortgage they modify -- to help keep people in their homes and prevent foreclosures.
 And yet, five months later -- and two years into the housing bust -- the rising tide of foreclosures remains the single biggest threat to economic recovery. In 2005, at the height of the bubble, there were some 800,000 foreclosures. This year, sadly, we are on pace to see 3.5 million foreclosures, with no end in sight. ''On Main Street, the recovery will begin when foreclosures stop,'' said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who has been pushing the Treasury Department to get mortgage relief more quickly to homeowners at risk of foreclosure.
 ''It's not just California and Florida anymore,'' said Mark Zandi of Moody'sEconomy.com. ''Foreclosures are taking place coast to coast. They're high-end homes, low-end homes, prime mortgages, jumbo loans, you name it. Foreclosure mitigation needs to be front and center.'' As of March, according to Mr. Zandi, some 15 million homes were ''under water,'' meaning that their owners' mortgage balance was higher -- often considerably higher -- than the value of the homes. Not all of those people will default on their mortgages. But many will.
 Inexplicably, the Bush administration ignored the mounting foreclosure threat. The Obama administration came to office promising to do better; within a month it had announced the Making Home Affordable program, aimed at prodding the nation's big mortgage servicers to start modifying loans in large numbers. In addition, Congress passed a law immunizing the servicers from lawsuits that might arise for modifying mortgages. 
 So far, however, the results have been disheartening. As of July 6, according to some internal Treasury data I was given a peek at, a total of 131,030 mortgages had been modified under the program, on a three-month trial basis (the Obama program calls for three-month trials before the new loan terms are locked in). That may sound good -- but it's a drop in the bucket compared with those 3.5 million potential foreclosures this year.
 What's more, the anecdotal evidence strongly suggests that homeowners looking for assistance face enormous frustration, and even resistance, from servicers. A few weeks ago, this newspaper published a startling front-page story documenting the difficulty borrowers faced just getting basic information from their servicers. It's not uncommon to have to wait several months just to get a phone call returned. 
 ''We believe there is a general need for servicers to devote substantially more resources to this program for it to fully succeed and achieve the objectives we all share,'' wrote Mr. Geithner and Mr. Donovan in their letter. 
 Having spent some time this week looking into the program, I'd have to classify that as the understatement of the year.
 ''Servicers are just not equipped to do this,'' said William Kelvie, the chief executive of Overture Technologies, a company that sells underwriting software. If you want to understand why loan modifications have been so slow in coming, that's a pretty good place to start.
 For most of its history, the mortgage servicing industry -- which is dominated by big banks like Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and JPMorgan Chase -- did relatively simple tasks: it collected mortgage payments, paid taxes on the properties and so on. Yes, it dealt with borrowers who were in arrears -- which usually amounted to no more than 2 or 3 percent of their portfolio at any one time -- but mainly it either prodded people to get current on their payments or initiated foreclosure proceedings.
 Modifying loans -- thousands upon thousands of loans, amounting to as much as 25 percent of a servicer's portfolio -- is a much more complex task. For some servicers, the sheer numbers can ''overwhelm the system,'' said Larry B. Litton Jr., the chief executive of Litton Loan Servicing, which is owned by Goldman Sachs -- and which has long specialized in loan modifications. That is at least part of the reason why borrowers are having so much trouble getting their servicers to take their calls: many servicers can't cope with the volume. 
 More important, loan modification requires a lot of work. They can't be done in a blanket, one-size-fits-all fashion. Rather, loan modification is a one-on-one process that requires servicers to do something that should have been done in the first place: actually underwrite the loan. 
 Many of these mortgages, remember, were never properly underwritten, drawn up as they were back in the heyday of no money down and no income verification. Even mortgages that were originally underwritten properly have to be underwritten again; quite often the homeowner is in trouble because he has lost his job or because the recession has cut deeply into his savings and income. The servicer has to figure out whether he'll be able to handle even a modified loan.
 ''Servicers have to become full-blown underwriting shops,'' said Mr. Litton. Alas, most of them so far are not.
 I wish I could say that was the only reason the loan modification machinery is grinding so slowly. But the more I looked into it, the more I began to suspect there is another, darker reason. Although it would seem obvious that mortgage relief makes more sense than foreclosure for everyone concerned, the holders of the loans don't always see it that way. Many banks have less incentive than you'd think to sign off on large-scale loan modifications. 
 For instance, many times, when a mortgage holder falls behind, he will ''self-cure'' (as it's called in the trade) -- and eventually get current with his mortgage. So the bank, or the servicer, often has a reason to simply wait him out. In addition, the rate of re-default on modified mortgages can be as high as 50 percent, especially if the modification is not underwritten carefully. In which case, the servicer hasn't avoided a foreclosure, but merely postponed it.
 Many institutions also are reluctant to do large-scale mortgage modifications because they will hurt the balance sheets. After all, if a loan is modified, the bank has to take a write-down on the portion of the loan it is swallowing. If lots of loans are modified, that means a lot of write-downs. 
 At this moment in the financial crisis, banks are trumpeting their new-found profitability and racing to return bailout money to the Treasury. They've been able to do so in part by pretending that their loan portfolios, across the board, are healthier than they actually are. The government's willingness to ease the rules surrounding mark-to-market accounting have helped this effort. (This is not true of every bank, I should note: JPMorgan Chase, the healthiest of the big banks, has also been the most aggressive about modifying mortgages.) 
 Sure, foreclosure ultimately costs the bank more money than a modification would. But foreclosures these days take a long time -- as much as 18 months in some states. And all that time the banks can keep the loans on their books at inflated values. Daniel Alpert, the managing partner of Westwood Capital, calls this practice ''extend and pretend.'' In fact, he said, he has been hearing that banks aren't even willing to conduct so-called short sales anymore. Those are sales where the borrower asks the bank to sell the house for whatever it can get, and the bank in turn lets the borrower walk away from the loss that results from the sale. 
 ''Banks are saying no because they don't want to take the loss,'' said Mr. Alpert. ''They would rather foreclose. That is just wrong.''
 In truth, servicers and banks don't yet have powerful enough incentives to do large-scale mortgage modifications. The servicers and modification experts I spoke to this week all agreed that the $1,000-per-modification being dangled by the government was pretty meaningless, given the amount of time, money and effort they require. 
 So now that the carrot hasn't worked especially well, the government is taking out the stick. That letter the administration sent out on Thursday did not mince words. It demanded that the servicers begin ''adding more staff than previous planned, expanding call centers beyond their current size, providing an escalation path for borrowers dissatisfied with the service they have received, bolstering training of representatives, developing extra online tools, and sending out additional mailings to borrowers who may be eligible for the program.''
 And the laggards? Starting next month, the government plans to begin publishing data showing which servicers are doing well and which are doing poorly, thus trying to shame them into doing the right thing. And, of course, there is that July 28 meeting, in which all these points will be made, I suspect, rather forcefully.
 Apparently, the only incentive left is a good swift kick in the rear.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foreclosures in the United States could hit 3.5 million in 2009.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CITIES (54%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (88%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JACK REED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



315 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: For Lieutenant Governor, Job Description Comes Next

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Danny Hakim contributed reporting from Albany, and Angela Macropoulos from Mineola, N.Y.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Richard Ravitch was brought to Albany to help resolve a political crisis that left state government crippled for more than a month. Now that the crisis is over, what should Gov. David A. Paterson do with him?
 Even the governor, who appointed Mr. Ravitch as lieutenant governor on Thursday, has provided little more than a vague job description. 
 There is little doubt that Mr. Ravitch -- who for more than a generation has been New York's bureaucratic fixer, called in by mayors and governors to help rescue troubled government entities -- has skills that could be put to good use around the Capitol. But this time, Mr. Ravitch's task is not only to save the state from financial insolvency, but also to help bring Mr. Paterson back from the brink of political irrelevancy, politicians and political analysts say. The question is: Will Mr. Ravitch be given the flexibility and authority he needs to be successful in an administration that has been beset with turmoil and has had a virtual revolving door of top-level staffers since it took charge 16 months ago? 
 ''There's no doubt that what was missing in this government was someone of stature, and Dick Ravitch is a person of stature,'' said George Arzt, a veteran Democratic political consultant. ''And it will help the governor with voters in the long run -- if the governor listens to Dick.''
 Mr. Ravitch's role is not likely to be that of the typical parade-marching, speech-making, ribbon-cutting lieutenant governor. An avuncular but serious man, Mr. Ravitch would not have accepted the lieutenant governor's job unless it had an heavy policy portfolio attached to it, those who have worked him say.
 Mr. Ravitch is expected to focus on economic recovery and be largely out of the public eye. But his job is still being defined, and he says he is not yet sure exactly what his responsibilities will be.
 So far, Mr. Ravitch has expressed an interest in helping shape the state budget, which is under such considerable strain that Mr. Paterson's office said Friday that the governor would probably call the Legislature back into session around Labor Day to address the projected deficit. One of Mr. Ravitch's first meetings on Thursday -- his first day on the job -- was with the state budget director, Robert L. Megna. And he spoke on Friday with Timothy J. Gilchrist, the governor's chief adviser responsible for distributing federal economic stimulus funds.
 In a telephone interview on Friday, Mr. Ravitch, a former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said he imagined that his responsibilities would include areas in which he has considerable experience. That includes, he said, ''everything related to housing, infrastructure; I haven't abandoned my interest in transportation either.''
 Of course, it remains to be seen how Mr. Ravitch will mesh with the administration if he is to play a crucial role in such important policy areas. Mr. Ravitch said Friday that he had not been given -- or sought -- any assurances from the governor about what kind of authority he would have.
 ''Nobody should feel threatened,'' he said. ''I'm an old man. Everybody knows I don't have an ax to grind.'' 
 Mr. Ravitch, 76, said he had no aspirations to elected office and planned to step down after Mr. Paterson's first term ends in 2010. He noted that his relationship with the governor was something of an anomaly.
 ''Historically, the lieutenant governor and the governor have never gotten along particularly well,'' he said. ''Sometimes they're primary opponents, or other times they're selected for ethnic or gender reasons.'' 
 For now, though, it is not known how long Mr. Ravitch will be able to carry on as lieutenant governor. Lawyers for Mr. Paterson and Senate Republicans, who are challenging the appointment on the grounds that the State Constitution does not explicitly allow the governor to fill a lieutenant governor vacancy, met in State Supreme Court in Mineola, on Long Island, Friday. But a judge adjourned matters until Wednesday. 
 Mr. Paterson appointed Mr. Ravitch to help resolve a stalemate in the State Senate, which was divided evenly between two factions of 31 members each in a dispute over which party was in charge. Lieutenant governors cast tie-breaking votes in the Senate, according to the State Constitution. But on Thursday, Democrats reached an agreement that kept them in power by wooing back a senator who had defected.
 The constitutional question is likely to end up at the State Court of Appeals, and if that court ultimately rules that the appointment was unconstitutional, Mr. Ravitch said, he will take it in stride. He has asked the governor not to hire any staff members for him until the legal issues are resolved. 
 Mr. Ravitch told reporters this week, ''Nothing would please me more than to spend more time with my grandchildren and on the golf course than I expect I might.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gov. Richard Ravitch, speaking with reporters on Thursday, his first day on the job, is expected to focus on economic issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); US LABOR DAY (64%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



316 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Mayor's Spending Is Four Times His First Run

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's campaign for re-election has already burned through nearly $37 million, according to records released Friday, about four times as much as he had spent at this point in 2001 to introduce himself to New York voters. 
 Most of the money has been devoted to costly television advertising over the last few months, inserting Mr. Bloomberg's image into the middle of newscasts, baseball games and soap operas. 
 The mayor's spending, which has shattered all previous records for a municipal campaign, has dwarfed that of his chief Democratic opponent, William C. Thompson Jr.
 The unexpected pace of spending may suggest that, despite the mayor's strong showing in the polls and an opponent who has shown little appetite for confrontation, Mr. Bloomberg's aides remain worried that a souring economy could turn voters against him this fall. 
 A New York Times poll conducted in late May, for example, found that a majority of New Yorkers say Mr. Bloomberg does not deserve another term in office and that they would like to give someone else a chance.
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Thompson's campaign, Anne Fenton, issued a stinging statement about the spending. ''The tens of millions of dollars that the mayor has spent can't change the fact that he's ignored this city's working families,'' she said. ''Under Mike Bloomberg's watch, taxes have increased, the unemployment rate has risen, the city has record homelessness, and our schools are overcrowded.''
 A spokeswoman for the Bloomberg campaign, Jill Hazelbaker, said that ''polling has consistently shown that voters aren't concerned with how much money the mayor has spent because they know he is a self-made man who isn't beholden to special interests or lobbyists.''
 She added that Mr. Thompson had taken more than $100,00 in what she called ''special interest money.''
 The financial filing released by the campaign on Friday night covered spending from May 12 to July 11. During that time, Mr. Bloomberg spent about $6.9 million on television commercials, $2.7 million on mailings to voters, and $1.8 million on consulting. 
 The mayor's campaign, which already employs twice as many workers at Mr. Thompson's, also increased its hiring. It now has a staff of about 70, records show. Among the new hires: Rudolph S. Giuliani, a relative of the former New York City mayor, who is working in the campaign's Queens field office. So far, he has been paid more than $5,000 by the campaign. 
 Mr. Thompson will report his spending for the same period next week. As of May 12, he had spent $1.8 million -- or roughly what Mr. Bloomberg has spent on a week's worth of commercials. 
 As usual, the campaign filings offer a glimpse into the inner workings of a high-priced political campaign, where seemingly no detail is overlooked -- not even rodents. (The campaign paid a company called Diehard Exterminating Inc. about $400 for its services, records show.) Or food. (It ran up a tab of at least $3,000 with Christine Inc., which provides food services.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); FAMILY (68%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); BASEBALL (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



317 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: A Primer on the New General Motors

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
General Motors closed the sale of its best assets to a new company primarily owned by the American government on Friday, starting a new era in its 101-year history. Here are the answers to some frequently asked questions. 
 Q: What is the new General Motors called?
 A: Its formal name is the General Motors Company.
 Q: Who owns the new G.M.?
 A: The majority owners of the new G.M. are the American and Canadian governments, which hold 72.5 percent. A union health care trust called a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association, or VEBA, holds 17.5 percent, and 10 percent is held by the old G.M.
 Q: Who will run the new G.M.?
 A: Fritz Henderson remains as chief executive. Its new chairman is Edward Whitacre Jr. New members of the G.M. board will be named soon.
 Q: What happens to old G.M.?
 A: It remains in bankruptcy. Assets, like brands, factories and other operations will be liquidated over the next few years. Albert A. Koch, an expert in restructuring, is overseeing that process. Old G.M. is now known as the Motors Liquidation Company.
 Q: Is my G.M. stock worth anything?
 A: Those certificates (if you have them) make a nice souvenir, but shares of old G.M., for the most part, are now worthless.
 Q: Will the new G.M. issue stock?
 A: Eventually. The Treasury Department said it planned to conduct an initial public offering for G.M. sometime in 2010. But it could be at least a year before G.M. trades publicly. Its initial offering will depend on a number of factors, like the strength of the auto market and the overall economy.
 Q: Which brands will the new G.M. sell?
 A: G.M. plans to keep Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet and G.M.C. It is shedding Saturn, Hummer, Saab and Pontiac.
 Q: What if I own one of the cars that G.M. is discontinuing?
 A: G.M. dealers will honor warranties on those cars until the coverage expires. 
 Q: How many dealers is G.M. closing?
 A: G.M. initially said it would close about 1,100 of its 6,000 dealerships, and it wanted to have as few as 3,600 dealers by the end of 2010. But it reversed plans to close a handful of those outlets. It has not released the names of those that are shutting, but a partial list can be found here. 
 There is legislation before Congress that would require G.M. to reverse its decision to close dealerships, but G.M. opposes the effort.
 Q: Where can I go for service if my G.M. dealer closes?
 A: You can have warranty work performed at another G.M. dealer.
 Q:How many plants and jobs will G.M. have?
 A: G.M. will have 34 assembly, engine, transmission and stamping plants in the United States by the end of 2010, compared with 47 in 2008. It expects to have 64,000 American employees by the end of this year, compared with 91,000 at the end of last year. Worldwide, G.M. has 235,000 employees.
 G.M. says it is cutting 35 percent of its American executives, and overall white-collar employment by 20 percent by the end of the year. For example, it is eliminating several layers of management, such as its North American Strategy Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIQUIDATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STOCK OFFERINGS (64%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (85%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009



318 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: The Rich Were Different (and Perhaps Still Are)

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
Wealth has its privileges, a message quickly conveyed by ''Party Time: Re-Imagine America,'' a powerful new site-specific installation by Yinka Shonibare commissioned by the Newark Museum as part of the celebration of its centennial year. 
 ''Party Time'' is set in the opulent wood-paneled dining room of the Ballantine House, built in 1885 for a prominent Newark family and now part of the museum. Here the artist has assembled an imagined sculptural tableau of a late-19th-century dinner party in the middle of an indulgent meal. 
 Mr. Shonibare has a very well-rehearsed method of working: the dressing up of mannequins in vibrantly colored, patterned textiles that since the mid-19th century have been manufactured in Europe for West African markets and have now come to be associated with West African cultures. 
 For Mr. Shonibare, who was raised in Lagos, Nigeria, and now lives in London, textiles are a symbol of the complexity of notions of cultural identity and authenticity; materials that we think of today as African are in fact European in origin. Mr. Shonibare's art mines such social, cultural and historical entanglements and ironies.
 Prior to his show in Newark, which coincides with a midcareer survey at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, Mr. Shonibare had never exhibited his work in a historic house. And though it is always risky to mix together contemporary and traditional art, especially the decorative arts, ''Party Time'' is remarkably successful. 
 The installation consists of eight headless mannequins in 19th-century dress made from the artist's signature fabric, seated around a lavish dining table. The table and the settings -- china, cutlery and glasses -- are part of the ensemble and appropriate to the period. 
 The remains of oysters and quail eggs are strewn over the table's surface, while to the far left a servant appears bearing the main course: a peacock (a symbol of luxury) on a silver platter. The guests' animated poses suggest a raucous, perhaps drunken celebration. 
 According to the Newark Museum's curator of African art, Christa Clarke, who accompanied me on a tour of the show before its opening, the scene reflects ''the rise of wealth and quest for refinement that accompanied industrialization in the United States.'' Ordinary people who had made good began to live like kings.
 A subtext of Mr. Shonibare's installation is, of course, the disparity of wealth generated by industrialization in the late 19th century. The indulgences of a privileged few were often made possible by the exploitation of others, frequently involving cheap immigrant labor. 
 The Ballantine House offers an extraordinarily appropriate setting for the installation. The Ballantines were Scottish immigrants who made a fortune in the brewing business; their home is a perfect symbol of the economic and social divisions of Gilded Age America. 
 Dr. Clarke said that Mr. Shonibare's allusions to the uneven distribution of wealth in late-19th-century America seem particularly relevant today. I am generally uncomfortable with such analogies, but there is no doubt this work suggests all sorts of interesting historical parallels. 
 Apart from its symbolic meaning and associations, the installation is also an aesthetic tour de force. The clothes, the flowers and every bit of food on the table are the products of painstaking effort; each oyster is cast in resin and painted with metallic paint to give it a watery sheen. 
 In making art that reflects on indulgence and excess, there is always a risk that such qualities will be too evident in the work itself. ''Party Time'' is excessive, even over the top, but its knowing irony saves it from degenerating into theatrical kitsch.
 There is also a playfulness to the installation, noticeable in details like a female figure about to spill her glass of wine as she falls sideways in what looks like an attempt to escape being groped by a companion. Another woman has her feet on the table, legs apart, in a flagrant contravention of social etiquette.
 But what I like most about Mr. Shonibare's installation is the way it manages to breathe life into an otherwise rather stuffy historic structure. It makes the house seem dynamic and even relevant, the setting for a discussion of cultural politics rather than just a window into the past. 
 ''Party Time: Re-Imagine America, A Centennial Commission for the Newark Museum by Yinka Shonibare MBE,'' Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street, through Jan. 3. Information: (973) 596-6550 or newarkmuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INDULGING THEMSELVES: Details from Yinka Shonibare's ''Party Time'' installation, top, include a server mannequin bearing a peacock
the gown of a ''guest,'' embellished with the image of a showerhead and tub
 and a plateful of oysters, cast in resin and painted in mouth-watering fashion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); VISUAL ARTS (75%); TEXTILES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (91%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



319 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; JOBS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Summer Must-Read? Try Career Advice

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
SUMMER is typically a time for breezy novels and thrillers. But this jittery season, books dishing out career advice and inspiration are making a strong showing, as people young and old, employed and not, seek an edge in the tightest job market in decades. 
 While overall book sales were down 4.1 percent for the year through April, according to the Association of American Publishers, retailers report that sales of career-burnishing books have been on the rise. 
 The recession has brought fresh demand for classics like ''What Color Is Your Parachute,'' a comprehensive guide to job-hunting by Richard N. Bolles that has sold 10 million copies since it was first published in 1970, and ''Knock 'em Dead: The Ultimate Job Search Guide,'' by Martin Yate. Both titles are updated annually. 
 There are books for most every situation. Moms who are returning to work can pick up ''Back on the Career Track,'' by Carol Fishman Cohen and Vivian Steir Rabin, while baby boomers might opt for ''Finding a Job After 50,'' by Jeannette Woodward. For eco-minded job-seekers, there's ''Green Jobs: A Guide to Eco-Friendly Employment.'' All were published in 2008. 
 And publishers are rushing out new titles to address demand from anxious consumers. 
 In June, Wiley & Sons released ''Get The Job You Want, Even When No One's Hiring,'' by Ford R. Myers. Ten Speed Press, an imprint in Berkeley, Calif., that was recently acquired by Random House, has two new career books hot off the press. One of them, ''Strategies for a Successful Career Change,'' by Martha E. Mangelsdorf, a journalist, grew out of her experience writing a monthly column profiling successful career changers. The other, ''The Job-Hunter's Survival Guide,'' by Mr. Bolles, is a pared-down guide for job-seekers who may not have the time or patience to read his 400-page ''Parachute'' book. 
 The survival guide ''was very much in reaction to the recession,'' said Debra Matsumoto, director of publicity for Ten Speed. In February, as the economy worsened, Mr. Bolles approached his editors at Ten Speed with the idea of doing a quick and concise book. Six months later, it is hitting store shelves. And, at $9.99, it's priced to sell.
 The book reflects what retailers say is a shift by consumers away from soul-searching books that promise to help them discover an ideal career, to nitty-gritty basics that can help them land a job -- and fast. 
 ''Customers are focusing on what is going to help them get a job, rather than, as in better times, finding the perfect career,'' said Dave Hathaway, the business book buyer at Barnes & Noble. 
 Allison Elsby, director of merchandising at Borders, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., has noticed a similar trend. Customers, she said, are showing a clear preference for ''practical and pragmatic books,'' on topics like resume writing, time management and learning a skill. Software manuals and how-to's for creating iPhone applications are hot sellers, she said, as are preparatory guides for scholastic tests and civil-service entrance exams. 
 ''It suggests that people are looking to enhance their existing skills or learn new ones,'' Ms. Elsby said. Inspirational books about achieving professional success are also a draw, she said. 
 Both book chains have made an effort to highlight career-enhancing books with in-store displays. ''We recognized early on there would be an increased need for these books,'' said Mr. Hathaway of Barnes & Noble. 
 Like other forms of media, however, books are losing some ground to the Internet, where advice on everything from resumes to interviewing techniques can be had free. Indeed, while sales of career-advice books have risen, the increase has been less than in past recessions, retailers say. 
 Buying a book will not magically find you a job, of course, but the best career guides offer time-tested advice, exercises to pinpoint strengths and interests, and a motivational boost. 
 Mark N. New, a career counselor and recruiter in Belle Mead, N.J., who has read dozens of career advice books, says job seekers can pick up useful nuggets on the mechanics of an employment search from books like ''Parachute'' and ''Knock 'em Dead.''
 For those who have recently lost jobs, he suggests reading a motivational book from authors like William Bridges, a consultant who has written several books on managing change, or Stephen R. Covey, author of ''The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People.'' 
 ''You have to emotionally be in the right place to put your best foot forward,'' Mr. New said. 
 He also urges job-seekers to become adept at social networking and personal branding. Here, he says, a book like ''Me 2.0,'' by Dan Schawbel, can help. 
 ALTHOUGH readers may be in a more pragmatic mood, career guides are hardly expected to bump the latest crop of steamy novels off the summer reading list. Sometimes people just need to escape. 
 Besides, not everyone will want to flash their dog-eared copy of ''Fired, Laid-Off or Forced Out'' in public. The book, by Richard Busse and originally published in 2005, has been selling briskly in recent months.
 Then again, it can always be covered in brown paper. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amid the tightest job market in decades, bookstores across the country have been highlighting career-enhancing books. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); BOOK SALES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



320 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, July 12, 2009

 BODY:
International
 UNSOLVED MURDER HIGHLIGHTS FLAWS IN RUSSIAN JUSTICE
 Alexei V. Rybin sat on the jury that acquitted two men of killing an American journalist in Moscow in 2004. He argued against the acquittals, but has been so tormented by the case that he has defied court rules and discussed it publically, calling the verdict tainted. PAGE 6
 BRITONS WEARY OF WAR
 Fifteen British soldiers have been killed in combat in Afghanistan in the past ten days. The steep rise in casualties has intensified criticism of the war in Britain. PAGE 8 
 A MYANMAR ICON ON TRIAL
 Outside Myanmar, the trial of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has energized pro-democracy forces. But in her own country, her support may have weakened. PAGE 11
 BOMBINGS KILL SIX IN IRAQ
 At least six people were killed and 67 others were wounded in a series of bombings in Baghdad and the northern city of Mosul. PAGE 11
 MINER IS KILLED IN INDONESIA
 An Australian working for the Freeport mining company in Indonesia's restive Papua Province was shot and killed, possibly by a sniper, the police and company officials said. PAGE 11
 Iran Prepares for Talks 11 
 National
 DOUBTS AND APATHY ENVELOP SHOOTINGS BY MIAMI OFFICER
 The Miami Beach police and the state attorney's office are investigating two fatal shootings by one officer. But the public seems unsure of whom to blame, who is covering up and how much to care. PAGE 12 
 FIGHTING GANGS WITH LIGHTS
 ''Summer Night Lights'' in Los Angeles aims to combat gang violence by keeping lights on until midnight in some of the city's roughest parks. Despite dire financial straits, city officials have pledged to match $1.4 million in private donations to finance the program. PAGE 20 
 Metropolitan
 MALLS SEE PLENTY OF ACTION, 
 But Less of It Shopping
 For more than a decade, malls have been adding amenities like jogging routes to lure consumers. But in a recession, those attractions seem more popular than the stores. METROPOLITAN, PAGE 1
 GIVING LIFE IN SHACKLES
 At least once a week in a New York prison or jail, a woman goes into labor. In the final hours of pregnancy, even nonviolent offenders are often shackled and chained, Jim Dwyer writes. About New York. METROPOLITAN, PAGE 1
 Sports
 FEW EAGER TO FOLLOW 
 Expatriate's Path to N.B.A.
 Brandon Jennings, a top basketball prospect, caused a stir when he decided to circumvent the college ranks by playing overseas before being drafted into the N.B.A. But so far, few players seem willing to follow his path. PAGE 1 
 A MANAGER EMBRACES JAPAN
 Unlike other United States-born managers of Japanese baseball teams, Marty Brown, who runs the Hiroshima Toyo Carp, is trying to build a competitive team in a more understated, Japanese way. PAGE 3 
 Obituaries
 PAUL HEMPHILL, 73
 He brought a lean journalistic style and a sharp ear for dialogue in essays and novels devoted to the blue-collar South of stock-car racing, football, country music, evangelists and wayward souls. PAGE 26 
 JOHN M. ORMAN, 60
 A politics professor at Fairfield University, he took his subject out of the classroom by seizing control of the very minor party that Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut set up to secure his re-election in 2006. PAGE 27 
 Arts & Leisure
 A FUN-LOVING SPONGE
 Who Keeps It Clean
 To celebrate the 10th anniversary of ''SpongeBob SquarePants,'' Nickelodeon is airing a 50-episode marathon. The animated show is as popular as ever, but Alessandra Stanley writes that the appeal of the series to adults and children alike remains a mystery. PAGE 1
 PONDERING THE NEXT STEP
 The sudden death of the German choreographer Pina Bausch raised an essential question for all dance companies that serve a lone creative voice: What happens when that voice is silenced? PAGE 5 
 Sunday Business
 HOPING HOW-TO VIDEO 
 Attracts Eyeballs and Profit
 A handful of Google and YouTube veterans started Howcast.com, jumping into the bustling and fast-growing crowd of Web sites offering how-to content. PAGE 1
 A HAPPY FAMILY, FOR NOW
 Trumpf, a German maker of laser machine tools, has a corporate culture in which employees are treated like family. But the company's ethos is on a collision course with the current economic reality. PAGE 1
 Book Review
 BLEAK HOUSEKEEPING
 With Mrs. Dickens
 ''Girl in a Blue Dress,'' by Gaynor Arnold, takes inspiration from Dickens's failed marriage, as seen through the eyes of his wife. page 6 
 GETTING LOST
 The atlas in your head is probably unreliable. ''You Are Here,'' by Collin Ellard, talks about why we get lost in the food court but can find our way to the moon. Page 11 
 magazine
 WATCHING THE WHALES 
 As They Watch Us
 In a lagoon in Baja California, humans and the gray whales they are studying have been experiencing something strange. Could it be communication? page 26 
 DIRECTING THE TORY PARTY
 Can David Cameron, most likely the next prime minister of Britain, redefine the Tory Party and point the way to a new conservatism in America? Page 36 
 Travel
 GETTING LEFT ON THE DOCK
 But Not With the Bill
 Tour operators cancel trips. It happens. But there are ways to avoid getting stuck paying the price. You just have to understand how the system works. page 3 
 IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT BULLS
 Come to Pamplona, Spain, and you need not run from a bull, an activity for which the region is famous. It has charms that transcend danger -- and do not require running shoes. Page 7 
 Sunday Styles
 SEARCHING FOR PUZZLES
 In the Newspaper
 For the many aficionados of puzzles -- crosswords, acrostics, sudokus and other games -- the greatest puzzle of all these days can be finding one, as they are increasingly being left out of newspapers and magazines. PAGE 1
 Week In Review
 THE ART OF THE COMEBACK
 How far can a major political party fall? It's a question Republicans seem determined to ask. Both parties have come back from bad situations before, but are the lessons they learned relevant today? PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 UNDOING THE DAMAGE
 Nearly three years after Congress created the military commissions at Guantanamo Bay, lawmakers and the Obama administration are working to undo the damage. A new military tribunals bill introduces essential improvements for a deeply rotten system, but it still has serious flaws. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
 NOT SO GENEROUS
 While the pledge by leaders of the nation's hospitals to save the government $155 billion in health care spending over the next decade is a start, the industry should contribute more to help cover the uninsured. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
 Op-Ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Armed with a natural gift for promotion, and little else, Scott Harrison left the fast lane to start a charity. The results have been stunning. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 MAUREEN DOWD
 War of the tweets: Palin and McCain go rogue. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 FRANK RICH
 Sarah Palin won't go gently into the good night, much as some Republicans in Washington might wish. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 THE PUBLIC EDITOR
 A recent Vows column in the weddings and celebrations pages expanded the idea of who should be featured, to the dismay of some readers and the delight of others. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 DOCUMENTS Sonia Sotomayor's law firm was often promoted by President George H. W. Bush's White House, even though the firm was never incorporated or advertised.
 nytimes.com/cityroom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); WRITERS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); BASEBALL (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); MINES & MINING (68%); CITIES (68%); GANGS (53%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDONESIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



321 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: From the Classroom To the Marketplace

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
ANDREW W. LO, a finance professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, enjoys a setup that many other academics would envy: tenure at a top university, opportunities to earn extra money through consulting and acclaim for his research. 
 That's not enough for Dr. Lo. He wants to show the world that his theories and computations can generate profits for investors. ''If you go into finance instead of math, you're interested in having an impact,'' he said.
A decade ago, he founded a money management company called the AlphaSimplex Group and, in September, started offering his expertise to the masses via a mutual fund. The fund, Natixis ASG Global Alternatives, provides hedge-fund-like strategies to average folks. (Its minimum investment for regular accounts is $2,500.) It aims to help them diversify their holdings beyond straight stocks and bonds and thus protect their savings. 
 Dr. Lo and his staff use futures and forward contracts to invest in the stock, bond, commodity and currency markets. 
 His move into money management and mutual funds isn't without risks -- both for him and for people who buy into the fund. Plenty of professors have flopped on Wall Street, calling into question whether their theories amounted to more than elegant math. Two Nobel laureates worked with Long-Term Capital Management, which nearly collapsed in 1998. (More on that below.) And many mutual funds in general, despite their potential on paper, fail to deliver market-beating returns.
 From September through June, Dr. Lo's fund, offered through Natixis Global Asset Management, returned 0.19 percent, versus a 20 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500. The fund's expense ratio was 1.62 percent, versus an average of 2.10 percent for comparable offerings tracked by Morningstar.
 Dr. Lo said the early returns suggest that the fund is providing what he had hoped for: additional diversification. 
 ''Investors over the last few years have suffered from diversification-deficit disorder,'' he said in an interview in AlphaSimplex's offices in Cambridge, Mass. ''They think they're getting diversification from putting their money in large- and small-cap stocks, value and growth strategies and international and emerging markets. But the fact is that all of those went down last year.'' 
 His prescription for the disorder goes by a baffling name: hedge fund beta replication. It's an approach that uses computers and statistics to analyze databases of hedge fund returns.
 Mathematical models discern the common bets that hedge funds have made -- their betas, in technical terms. AlphaSimplex uses futures and forwards to replicate these betas. By design, the method aims to capture the average risk and return of a diversified portfolio of hedge funds. 
 ''There are 8,000 hedge funds, and if you average them, you get the most important market opportunities,'' he said. ''We're using them as an information source to tell us whether it's time to go long or short on equities or to focus on fixed income.'' 
 Talk with other investment experts, and they say that Dr. Lo's approach could work. ''Andy Lo has been on the forefront of hedge fund academic research since it started,'' said Nadia A. Papagiannis, an analyst at Morningstar, ''and much of his research has been focused on exactly what they do and what their risk exposure is.''
 Dr. Lo's new fund, she said, draws on strategies that could help protect people from slides in stock and bond markets. She said that one of Morningstar's hedge fund indexes, the Morningstar 1000, lost 22.4 percent last year, a much smaller decline than the 37 percent loss of the S.& P. 500. 
 Alan J. Marcus, a finance professor at Boston College, complimented Dr. Lo's thinking on diversification, but questioned whether he could successfully implement it. Hedge funds can skitter in and out of asset classes and strategies. They ''say they're in and out at the flip of switch,'' he said. Dr. Lo's approach, by contrast, depends on analyzing historical information from databases and finding trends. Thus he can't move as quickly.
 John C. Bogle, the founder of Vanguard, is famously skeptical of newfangled investment approaches. He said he didn't doubt that Dr. Lo could identify the strategies that hedge funds use. ''Academics have been figuring out for years what asset classes mutual funds have been investing in,'' Mr. Bogle said. ''They can do it with remarkable accuracy.'' 
 But he wondered why anyone would want to invest in anything besides stocks, bonds and cash, which he said could provide ample diversification at low cost. A shortcoming of more sophisticated strategies can be high expenses. 
 Dr. Lo isn't the first academic to try money management. 
 Some professors have thrived at putting their theories into practice. James H. Simons taught math at Stony Brook University before starting his hedge fund company, Renaissance Technologies. David E. Shaw, of D. E. Shaw & Company, another hedge fund manager, served on the computer science faculty at Columbia University. The former professors' companies manage more than $10 billion each, and the two men have earned reputations as pioneers in quantitative investing.
 Others have faltered. In 1929, just days before the market crash, the Yale economist Irving Fisher declared that stocks had reached a ''permanently high plateau.'' More recently, Robert C. Merton and Myron S. Scholes, Nobel winners in economics, were among the partners in Long-Term Capital Management, which nearly collapsed as a result of a bad bet on Russian bonds. 
 DR. LO has studied what happened at Long-Term Capital. ''Our risk management came out of the L.T.C.M. incident,'' he said. 
 To help ensure that AlphaSimplex doesn't err similarly, its chief compliance-and-risk officer can overrule any investment that he thinks exposes the firm to excessive risk, Dr. Lo said. The company also uses risk-management techniques that Dr. Lo likened to cruise control on a car. Whenever investment volatility becomes too high, computer programs automatically rework the mix to lower the risk. 
 Dr. Lo thus predicted that his new fund would damp the ups and downs of people's portfolios, not add to them. ''Helping rich people get richer is fine,'' he added. ''But that's not as satisfying as putting together an investment product that solves a current need and does so for a large number of people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew W. Lo of M.I.T. has started a mutual fund that uses strategies like those of hedge funds.(PHOTOGRAPH BY C. J. GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); MATHEMATICS (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); CURRENCIES (68%); INTERVIEWS (61%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIXIS SA (57%); NATIXIS GLOBAL ASSET MANAGEMENT LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

TICKER: KN (PAR) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



322 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: For 435 Lawmakers, 250 Groups to Align With

BYLINE: By ANDREA FULLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
More than 250 caucuses operate in the 111th Congress, but tourists who would like to check out a meeting of the bourbon caucus or the songwriters caucus should not get their hopes up. 
 That is because members of most caucuses, officially known as Congressional Member Organizations, rarely convene face to face. Lacking private office space and official financing, members often rely on e-mail to discuss legislative matters related to their group. 
 ''The technological age has definitely helped spur the acceleration of the creation of caucuses,'' said Anthony A. Wallis, a research analyst for the Office of the Historian in the House. ''But it's also the fact that you have a lot of complex issues.'' 
 During the last Congressional session, more than 300 caucuses were registered with the Committee on House Administration -- almost double the number of caucuses that existed at the end of President George W. Bush's first term. (Only one, the Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control, is recognized in the Senate, where formal caucuses must be established by legislation.) 
 Some have fairly self-explanatory titles, like the Congressional Caucus on Qatari-American Economic Strategic Defense, Cultural and Educational Partnership, which has the honor of being the caucus with the longest name. 
 Others, like the Congressional Songwriters Caucus, have a less obvious purpose. This is not a group of representatives who compose songs. Rather, its 36 members focus on issues like intellectual property protection. (The group has brought in songwriters to teach ''Songwriting 101'' classes, however.) It is headed by Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, and Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. 
 ''We have always said we represent more songwriters than any other member of Congress between Memphis and Nashville, and they have a lot of very serious compensation concerns and intellectual property concerns,'' said Claude Chafin, a spokesman for Ms. Blackburn. 
 Nor do the Congressional Bourbon Caucus and the Congressional Gaming Caucus consist of members who gather to drink and gamble. Rather, the leaders of these caucuses represent bourbon-producing Kentucky and the gambling capital of the United States, Las Vegas. 
 The gambling caucus deals with a range of issues, pushing to reinvigorate the tourism industry and making sure regulations for Internet gambling are fair. 
 ''When you think about everything from taxation to employee issues, all of those things affect the gaming industry,'' said David Cherry, a spokesman for Representative Shelley Berkley, a Nevada Democrat who heads the caucus with Representative Frank A. LoBiondo, Republican of New Jersey.
 As for the newly formed bourbon caucus, its 17 members plan to advocate for the bourbon industry by fighting proposals like a tax increase on liquor. 
 ''Somebody was saying something one day about the wine caucus, and I thought, why isn't there a bourbon caucus?'' said Representative John Yarmuth, a Kentucky Democrat who conceived the idea for the group. 
 While caucuses like these were formed to advocate for regional interests, others exist to spread knowledge about issues. The goal of the 17-member Congressional Dietary Supplement Caucus is educating members of Congress and their staffs about the importance of these products to their constituents and their regulation through the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act. 
 ''There are safety issues, there are labeling issues, there are adverse reaction issues, but continuing access to these products is critical,'' said Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican and one of the four co-chairmen of the caucus.
 Other caucuses involve the personal interests of their members, like the Congressional Motorcycle Caucus, headed by Representative Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona Democrat who has been an avid rider since she was a teenager, and Representative Michael C. Burgess, Republican of Texas. Ms. Giffords recently completed a motorcycle expedition with military veterans that ended at a Tucson cemetery with the burial of newly discovered remains of soldiers who died defending 19th-century settlers in what was then the territory of Arizona.
 Ms. Giffords has translated that personal passion into political interest: the caucus primarily focuses on motorcycle safety. The group, which has about a dozen members, also works to make sure American manufacturers are competitive internationally. 
 ''We've got the best caucus in the Congress,'' Ms. Giffords said with a chuckle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); GAMING (85%); TOURISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HISTORY (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%); SHELLEY BERKLEY (58%); LLOYD DOGGETT (58%); MARSHA BLACKBURN (58%); FRANK A LOBIONDO (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



323 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Strolling Pamplona Without a Bull in Sight

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
I SNAGGED the last seat in the daily post-siesta ritual of musical chairs at the Cafe Iruna, a Parisian-style spot once frequented by Ernest Hemingway, and settled in for some of the best people-watching and pinchos nibbling in Spain. The Iruna sits on the Plaza del Castillo, once a bullring and now the buzzing nucleus of the northern Spanish city of Pamplona. Children skipped rope next to a gazebo, older men in berets chain-smoked, backpackers wandered and gawked, and clusters of hipsters mingled and gabbed on cellphones.
 Most Americans know Pamplona for little but the testosterone-fueled running of the bulls through its ancient stone streets every July, part of the San Fermin Festival that is continuing this weekend. Within Spain, it is often dismissed as a cultural backwater, a brief stop for Camino de Santiago pilgrims or day-trippers from San Sebastian and Barcelona. 
 But when I visited this past spring, with the rowdy San Fermin crowds absent, I found a city worth knowing for itself: filled with cultural and culinary high points, teeming with chatty night owls and sophisticated wine aficionados, and framed by the pointy foothills of the French Pyrenees to the north and wide plains to the south. Quaint boutiques line its labyrinthine streets, while the facades ringing the Plaza del Castillo look as if they haven't changed since Hemingway set part of ''The Sun Also Rises'' there in the '20s. 
 This is the historic capital of Navarre -- now with 200,000 residents -- and the walk from the bus station to the Old Quarter cuts through sun-kissed plazas, past parks scattered with contemporary sculptures and medieval fortresses and over crumbling ramparts constructed by Pompey -- the Roman general who was a rival of Julius Caesar's and is Pamplona's namesake. First-timers can spend hours getting happily lost in the Old Quarter's maze of narrow canyonlike alleyways, hopping from bar to bar and sampling exotic examples of the small-plate combinations of colorful finger food locally called pinchos -- like pigeons stuffed with truffles and foie gras -- and filling up on a favorite local libation, the tangy red liqueur called pacharan. 
 Also tucked within the old town lies an impressive collection of medieval churches and Roman monuments. The Gothic interior of the main cathedral, Santa Maria la Real, includes the alabaster tomb of Charles III, ruler of Navarre in the 1400s. The cloister inside belies the rather ugly and peeling facade of the church's neo-Classical exterior, which has seen better days -- one of its bell-tower clocks was broken when I visited.
 The Museo de Navarra can easily consume an afternoon with its assortment of Goyas, mosaics and murals. And if the patio at El Caballo Blanco, a relaxing cafe with live music tucked behind the cathedral, gets too crowded, take a picnic instead in the large park called Taconera Gardens, and gaze at its exotic wildlife like albino peacocks.
 On a breezy afternoon, as the town's inhabitants settled into their siesta, I stood in the center of the small square called Plaza Consistorial, marveling at the ochre-colored edifice of Pamplona's Baroque town hall. During San Fermin, bulls are corralled here -- along with bull-runners wearing red-and-white neckerchiefs. But now the square was silent except for the light foot patter of a few Camino backpackers.
 Moments later, as if to make sure the city's famed acoustics were still working, a parade of Basque folk dancers clad in conical hats and white furry armor spilled into the streets, banging on bells and drums. In a moment the cobblestones were jammed with revelers of all ages, nibbling on olives outside bars and chatting away in a melodious blend of Euskara (the Basque language) and Spanish. I had happened on a local festival. 
 I followed the procession of dancers up Estafeta Street -- the final section of the route where the bulls run at San Fermin -- an area of quirky bars and balconies that calls to mind Bourbon Street in New Orleans. I ducked into Sarria Bar, where accordion players sang in a circle and large slabs of cured hams dangled above a bar strewn with every kind of colorful pinchos imaginable. I settled on a plate of patatas bravas, or crispy potatoes smothered in spicy sauce, and something called kalimotxo, a cocktail of cola and wine. 
 Pamplona's culinary traditions do not disappoint. Old standby restaurants like Gaucho, Rodero and Josetxoserve up extravagant spreads of pinchos like fried octopus and duck liver. Wineries outside of town (called bodegas) let visitors slow-sip their rioja from homemade wineskin pouches called botas. Even dives with tattooed bartenders and dusty New Order records hanging behind the bar display assortments of pinchos that look as dazzlingly colorful as a Joan Miro artwork. 
 Night life is more relaxed and family-friendly in Pamplona than in Barcelona or San Sebastian. It is not uncommon to see bars crammed with baby strollers or kids doodling on coloring books while their parents sip wine. The crowd at Cafe Iruna looks less like ''lost generation'' bohemian than retirement-age, even if the ambient blue lighting of the brick cellar Subsuelo attracts a younger and hipper audience. 
 Avoid the lines of svelte model-types and university students that still snake down the street outside Marengo, perhaps the busiest disco in town. Instead follow Pamplona's trendier crowds to the more subdued and less touristy district of San Juan,a 10-minute walk from the Old Quarter. It's speckled with underground cinemas, gay-friendly bars and even a Japanese-style park. ''It's an interesting night life here because of our diverse mix of young and old,'' said Ivan Navarro, 27, a local English teacher. ''People have lots of money here so they live pretty glamorously.'' 
 Indeed, Pamplona's economy has stayed relatively strong despite Spain's economic slump. The city is a prosperous industrial hub for car manufacturers like Volkswagen and for importing and exporting. Rundown buildings are under renovation. Hoteliers are upgrading rooms and sprucing up restaurants.
 Small surprise, then, that some locals are less than thrilled with the San Fermin festival, when Pamplona's parks turn into backpacker camps and prices triple. 
 ''Bullfighting gives our city a bad reputation,'' said Oihane Miranda, a talkative young woman enjoying bocadillos -- meat-stuffed baguettes -- and sitting under the green tarp of the newly opened Izarre Bar within sight of a vacant Plaza de Toros. ''But the best part about Pamplona is the people and food.'' 
 NIBBLING IS ENCOURAGED
 HOW TO GET THERE
 Flights from the United States require a stopover, usually through San Sebastian or Barcelona. A recent online search found round-trip flights on Iberia Airlines starting at around $600. Pamplona is about a four-hour train ride from Madrid or Barcelona. For guided English-speaking tours (starting at around 140 euros, about $200 at $1.43 to the euro) of Pamplona and nearby villages, contact Francisco Glaria (34-629-661-604; www.novotur.com). 
 WHERE TO STAY
 The most luxurious digs in town are the Gran Hotel La Perla(Plaza del Castillo, 1; 34-948-223-000; www.granhotellaperla.com), which was recently renovated. A suite where Hemingway once wrote has been left largely intact (to see it, ask for a view of Room 201). Doubles start at 150 euros later this month. 
 A more cramped but affordable option is the Hotel Castillo de Javier (San Nicolas, 50-52; 34-948-203-040; www.hotelcastillodejavier.com). Doubles start at 63 euros in the low season. 
 WHERE TO EAT
 Hemingway's local haunt, Cafe Iruna (Plaza del Castillo, 44; 34-948-222-064; www.cafeiruna.com), offers multi-course pinchos specials starting at 13 euros. 
 For lighter fare set amid pleasant gardens, try El Caballo Blanco (Calle Redin, 0; 34-948-211-504). 
 WHAT TO DO
 The Cathedral of Santa Maria la Real (Calle Dormitaleria; 34-948-212-594), open daily, costs 4.40 euros. 
 The Museo de Navarra (Calle Santo Domingo, 47; 34-848-426-492; www.cfnavarra.es/cultura/museo) is free on weekends but 2 euros Tuesday through Friday.
 To get to San Juan, follow Avenida de Bayona about 10 blocks southwest of Plaza del Castillo, past the nightclub Marengo (Avenida de Bayona, 2; 34-948-265-542).
 The San Fermin Festival, including the running of the bulls, is held annually July 6 to 14; if you want to visit then, book well in advance and be aware that prices jump. For more information, contact the town tourism office (Calle Hilarion Eslava, 1; 34-948-206-540; www.navarra.es). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Outside a bar in Pamplona, Spain, that offers pinchos, the local name for finger foods served in great variety, often with drinks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATIAS COSTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Pamplona, Spain 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MUSIC (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOUNTAINS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); SCULPTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) NAVARRE, SPAIN (98%); GALICIA, SPAIN (79%); PYRENEES (79%) SPAIN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



324 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: A Loophole Worth Closing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN GRUBER

 BODY:
POLLS show most Americans are in favor of universal health care. But how will we pay for it? There is an obvious place to look for the money: the tax exclusion for employer-sponsored insurance. 
 When my employer pays me in cash wages, I am taxed. Not taxed is the $10,000 per year that my employer spends on my health insurance, and this leaves me with an effective tax break of about $4,000. Over all, this break costs the federal government $250 billion per year in forgone revenue.
 This is more than we would need to cover every American who now lacks health insurance. Ending the exclusion would provide a progressive source of financing for universal coverage, since higher-income taxpayers would contribute most of the revenues. It would stop discrimination against those who can't obtain insurance through their employers and therefore have to pay with after-tax dollars. And it would end a policy of providing a bigger tax break the more one spends on health insurance, which drives overspending on medical care.
 Some worry that without this ''tax bribe,'' employers would no longer offer health insurance, and sicker and older people would not be treated as fairly on their own as they are in employer groups. This is not an issue for medium and large employers, which have continued to offer health insurance as the value of this tax bribe has gone up and down through the years. Small employers might reduce coverage, but this blow would be softened if the policy helped finance a universal plan in which all Americans would get group rates. 
 Removing the exclusion need not mean an across-the-board tax increase. We might consider merely capping the dollar amount of employer-sponsored health insurance that is excluded from income taxation. Individuals would include in their income taxes the amount of premiums over and above, say, the average cost of employer-sponsored insurance. A typical middle-class employee with premiums of $1,000 a year higher than the average would pay only about $150 in extra taxes, yet such a policy would raise $500 billion in federal revenues over the next decade. This policy would provide strong incentives to purchase insurance more efficiently, since the highest-cost plans would be taxed but lower-cost plans would not. To ensure that the cap was not unfair to employees with relatively high insurance costs, employers could be allowed to compute an adjustment in the cap based on their location or their workers' ages.
 Closing this tax loophole would fix a fundamental flaw in our health care system. Even just capping it would provide the revenues to take us much of the way to universal coverage, without raising taxes on those who purchase average cost insurance.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2010

 CORRECTION:
On July 12, the Op-Ed page published an article by Jonathan Gruber, a professor of economics at M.I.T., on health insurance and taxation. On Friday, Professor Gruber confirmed reports that he is a paid consultant to the Department of Health and Human Services, and that his contract was in effect when he published his article. The article did not disclose this relationship to readers. 
 Like other writers for the Op-Ed page, Professor Gruber signed a contract that obligated him to tell editors of such a relationship. Had editors been aware of Professor Gruber's government ties, the Op-Ed page would have insisted on disclosure or not published his article.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); BRIBERY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



325 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Another Insurgency Gains in Pakistan, Stirred Up by Local Killings

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: TURBAT, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Three local political leaders were seized from a small legal office here in April, handcuffed, blindfolded and hustled into a waiting pickup truck in front of their lawyer and neighboring shopkeepers. Their bodies, riddled with bullets and badly decomposed in the scorching heat, were found in a date palm grove five days later.
 Local residents are convinced that the killings were the work of the Pakistani intelligence agencies, and the deaths have provided a new spark for revolt across Baluchistan, a vast and restless province in Pakistan's southwest where the government faces yet another insurgency. 
 Although not on the same scale as the Taliban insurgency in the northwest, the conflict in Baluchistan is steadily gaining ground. Politicians and analysts warn that it presents a distracting second front for the authorities, drawing off resources, like helicopters, that the United States provided Pakistan to fight the Taliban and Al Qaeda. 
 Baluch nationalists and some Pakistani politicians say the Baluch conflict holds the potential to break the country apart -- Baluchistan makes up a third of Pakistan's territory -- unless the government urgently deals with years of pent up grievances and stays the hand of the military and security services. 
 Hundreds, possibly thousands, of Baluch were rounded up in a harsh regime of secret detentions and torture under President Pervez Musharraf, who left office last year. Human rights groups and Baluch activists say those abuses have continued under President Asif Ali Zardari, despite promises to heal tensions. 
 ''It's pretty volatile,'' said Nawab Zulfiqar Ali Magsi, the governor of Baluchistan. ''When you try to forcibly pacify people, you will get a reaction.''
 The discovery of the men's bodies on April 8 set off days of rioting and weeks of strikes, demonstrations and civil resistance. In schools and colleges, students pulled down the Pakistani flag and put up the pale blue, red and green Baluch nationalist flag. 
 Schoolchildren still refuse to sing the national anthem at assemblies, instead breaking into a nationalist Baluch song championing the armed struggle for independence, teachers and parents said.
 For the first time, women, traditionally secluded in Baluch society, have joined street protests against the continuing detentions of nationalist figures. Graffiti daubed on walls around this town call for independence and guerrilla war, which persists in large parts of the province. 
 The nationalist opposition stems from what it sees as the forcible annexation of Baluchistan by Pakistan 62 years ago at Pakistan's creation. But much of the popular resentment stems from years of economic and political marginalization, something President Zardari promised to remedy but has done little to actually address. 
 In interviews, people in and around Turbat said the Pakistani military and intelligence agencies were still doggedly pursuing nationalist sympathizers. 
 A case in point, they say, is that of the three political figures who were killed: Gul Muhammad, Lala Munir and Sher Muhammad, all prominent in the nationalist movement.
 Government officials say the men were being prosecuted for activities against the state but deny any involvement in their deaths. People are not convinced and say that while the men supported independence, they were not involved in the armed struggle. 
 Mir Kachkol Ali, the men's lawyer, who witnessed their abduction, said the killings represented a deepening of the campaign by the Pakistani military to crush the Baluch nationalist movement. ''Their tactics are not only to torture and detain, but to eliminate,'' he said. 
 The insurgents, who say they are led by the Baluchistan Liberation Army, have escalated their tactics, too. A prominent example was the kidnapping in February of an American citizen, John Solecki, the head of the United Nations refugee organization in the provincial capital, Quetta. 
 The abduction was carried out by a breakaway group of young radicals who wanted to draw international attention to their cause and to exchange their captive for Baluch being held by the security services.
 Mr. Solecki was released in April after the intervention of Baluch leaders, including Gul Muhammad. Baluch leaders speculate that the intelligence agencies may have killed Mr. Muhammad and his colleagues to provoke the kidnappers into murdering the American, which would have branded the Baluch nationalists as terrorists.
 Instead, ''the killing of these three has centralized the national movement of Baluchistan,'' Mr. Ali, the lawyer, said. 
 He and others said they had no doubt that the intelligence services were responsible. 
 The three men were in his office on April 3 when a half-dozen armed men seized them, he said.
 ''They were persons of the agencies,'' Mr. Ali said. ''They were in plain clothes, but from their hairstyles, their language, we know them.'' Mr. Ali has lodged a case with the police against the intelligence agencies for the abduction and murder of the three.
 Nisar Ahmed, a shopkeeper and friend of the political leaders, said he saw them pushed into a pickup truck. He also said that the armed men appeared to be intelligence agents and that they were escorted by a second vehicle with 10 more armed men, also in plain clothes, who looked to be from the Frontier Corps paramilitary force.
 While the insurgency remains strong in other parts of Baluchistan, the military has largely crushed the resistance around Turbat since March 2007, yet armed men are still in the hills and continue to be rounded up, residents here said. 
 Yousuf Muhammad, the brother of Gul Muhammad, one of the slain political leaders, said that in February he was hung by his hands from the ceiling for 48 hours in a Pakistani military camp.
 ''They came to arrest Gul Muhammad but they found me,'' he said. Another brother, Obeidullah, said Gul Muhammad had received threats from people in the intelligence agencies warning him to stop his work. The latest came 10 days before his death, he said.
 A group of students in the nearby town of Tump said they were rounded up and held in various army camps without charge for seven months in 2007. Some said they were suspended by their hands or their feet until they passed out, were beaten and were held in solitary confinement. Each showed a blackened mark where a toenail had been pulled out. 
 The arrests and disappearances have hardened attitudes, townspeople said, particularly among the young. 
 Even the governor, who is the president's representative in the province, expressed exasperation at the Zardari government's inaction in addressing the needs of the population. Many Baluch are increasingly cynical about the government's ability to change things. 
 Sayed Hassan Shah, the minister for industry and commerce in Baluchistan, said his party was now demanding provincial autonomy. 
 ''This is our last option,'' he said. ''If we fail, then maybe we have to think of liberation or separation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators in Karachi, Pakistan, marched in April to denounce the killings of three local politicians from Baluchistan Province, deaths that some attribute to Pakistani intelligence agencies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASIF HASSAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Yousuf Muhammad, right, said he was detained in February, a few months before his brother was abducted and fatally shot.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOTTA GALL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAP: People in Turbat say nationalist sympathizers are detained. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); RIOTS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TORTURE (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); CHILDREN (67%); HELICOPTERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (76%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (77%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



326 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BLOGOSPHERE BROOKLYN ON THE BAYOU; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Weekend Chefs, Conjuring New Orleans

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER NAZARYAN. 
Alexander Nazaryan is working on his first novel, ''Golden Youth,'' about Russian organized crime in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
It was Saturday morning, Louis Armstrong was growling a jazz standard, and sunlight sneaked in through golden-draped windows. Inside the Speakeasy, early risers found refuge from the humidity, awakened by pots of French pressed coffee and potent brunch cocktails like the Fire on the Bayou, a Cajun take on the Bloody Mary. 
 From the kitchen emanated a steady stream of powdered doughnuts known as beignets, sumptuous bananas Foster waffles and a masterful shrimp po' boy. 
Take a sip, close your eyes and listen to the banter rising above the sounds of jazz, and you might think yourself in some charmingly overgrown French Quarter byway.
 But this is Brooklyn, not New Orleans; that Big Easy feeling is a testament to the culinary prowess of Claire Wood, a real estate lawyer in Clinton Hill, and Gabrielle Smith, a project manager from Montclair, N.J. They have been renting space from the Speakeasy, on the corner of Waverly and Greene, on Saturday mornings for their Bayou Brunch. 
 ''We both have Louisiana roots, and we share the same passion for food,'' said Ms. Wood, whose office is mere steps from the Speakeasy. Two years ago, Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith started the Clinton Hill Pie Company, which has gained a clientele primarily by word of mouth and, Ms. Wood said, is ''really underground.'' 
 More recently, the women decided they wanted to expand into the cuisine of New Orleans, which mixes Cajun, French and African-American influences into a distinctive style. 
 Several months ago, Ms. Wood was closing a real estate deal for Deborah Wright, the owner of the Speakeasy, and mentioned her pies. The Speakeasy, a welcoming space whose dark wood interior is accented by mirrors, chandeliers and gilt curtains, was closed on Saturday mornings, so the Bayou Brunch was born.
 It is one of many New York restaurants that have started leasing space to outside chefs, especially as the economic downturn has tightened wallets and restaurants have become desperate to attract customers. 
 Shanah Walton, an assistant manager at the Speakeasy, described the arrangement as something of a sublet, in which Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith use the kitchen but bring their own ingredients and wait staff. She said the financial details were still being worked out. 
 Ms. Walton said that Ms. Wood was a ''pillar of the community,'' whose vibrant personality alone attracted a crowd. ''She's called out the cavalry,'' Ms. Walton said.
 The menu features four main plates and several smaller dishes, plus dessert, each executed with a deftness one might not expect from a weekend chef who draws up deeds for a living. 
 ''Let's just do one thing and do it well,'' Ms. Wood recalled thinking as she and Ms. Smith tried out a bevy of recipes in a friend's Montclair kitchen. 
 A French press of steaming coffee arrives with beignets, which Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith bake instead of frying and top with cinnamon sugar rather than heaps of confectionery powder. 
 The resulting pastry is impossibly soft, the sugar a subtle complement instead of the main attraction. Biscuits, often an afterthought, are another pleasant prelude: neither dry nor crumbly, they yield easily, revealing a moist interior. 
 When the Bayou Brooklyn breakfast arrived, the eggs were fluffy and the grits pleasantly hearty; they came with excellent turkey sausage patties, which lacked the greasiness of most breakfast links and whose infusion of sage and fennel added surprising fragrance. Restraint paid off in bananas Foster waffles; the firm waffles refused to sink under the weight of syrup and bananas.
 The indisputable star of the menu is the shrimp po' boy, a Big Easy native proud of its roots but eager to take Brooklyn by storm. Seafood lovers, from the old-timers who crowd the clam shacks of Sheepshead Bay to the devotees of Zak Pelaccio and his Fatty Crab empire, should take note of Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith's excellent concoction. 
 The crunchy batter yields to reveal perfectly fried, modestly sized shrimp, while the bread -- from Balthazar -- ably holds the dressing of slightly lemony mayonnaise and tomatoes. You may have to venture to Louisiana, or at least Cape Cod, to enjoy such divine seafood.
 As morning turned into early afternoon, the Speakeasy filled up. Many of the diners appeared to know Ms. Wood, who was described by an old friend, Brenda White, as ''the unofficial mayor of Clinton Hill.'' 
 Alexander Nazaryan is working on his first novel, ''Golden Youth,'' about Russian organized crime in Brooklyn. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER NAZARYAN) DRAWING: A blog of news, entertainment and informed conversation about life in Fort Greene and Clinton Hill: nytimes.com/thelocal 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



327 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Of Home Mortgages and Human Nature

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Mortgages Made Simpler'' (Economic View, July 5), Richard H. Thaler uses the analogy of ski resorts with expert and novice slopes to make the point that most people should stick to novice (plain vanilla) loans like the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. 
 But in the recent financial meltdown, many expert skiers -- sophisticated investors and institutions alike -- also ran into trees on the slopes. The problem was not concentrated among unsophisticated investors who were duped by bad sales practices. The best and brightest financiers, along with people on Main Street, engaged in a gamble that housing prices would keep rising.
 When the party stopped, many institutions and people of all backgrounds lost money. This is not an argument for more regulation, as the column suggests. Human nature cannot be regulated. Robert Kaestner
 Chicago, July 5
 The writer is a professor of economics at the University of Illinois at Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); SKIING FACILITIES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); RESORTS (85%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HOME PRICES (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



328 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Michelle's Next Mission

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan writes Outposts, a column at nytimes.com. Thomas L. Friedman is off today.

DATELINE: MOUNT RAINIER 

 BODY:
NATIONAL PARK
 You would not know, just as egg-yoke-colored glacier lilies are pushing through ground newly unburdened of its snow, that there is so much trouble around these lands that form America's Best Idea.
 You could not fathom, among the babble of languages bouncing off granite walls in Yosemite, that these places may one day be unloved. 
 Our shared outdoor spaces, our attics of history and graveyards of sacrifice -- from Devils Tower to Death Valley, from Martin Luther King Jr.'s birth home to the Pennsylvania ground where Flight 93 crashed on 9/11 -- are being overlooked. The physical embodiments of the American story are being ignored by too many.
 Last year, there were 274 million visits to all areas run by the National Park Service. These places still draw more people than Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association and Nascar combined. This is a crisis?
 Well, yes. The problem is that 10 years ago, the parks attracted about 12 million more visitors than they do today. Attendance has been in gradual decline for more than a decade. And, worse, visitors all look sort of the same: generally white, fairly prosperous, sensible-shoe-wearing adults. 
 This is where Ken Burns is supposed to come to the rescue. The film that he and the writer Dayton Duncan have produced -- ''The National Parks, America's Best Idea'' -- which is scheduled to be shown over six nights on PBS in the fall, is stunning and restorative, like the parks themselves. There will most likely be a Ken Burns Effect -- just as there was after his films on the Civil War and baseball. But it will not be enough.
 For that, we need something else. A superstar. A style-shaper. A person who could get whiny city kids not only to eat their vegetables, but to grow them. 
 We need Michelle Obama to save the national parks. 
 She was blunt, while looking ever so stylish, in leading a renaissance for kitchen gardens. ''It's plain and simple,'' said the first lady, in explaining how one-third of American children came to be overweight or obese. ''They're not eating right, and they're not moving their bodies at all.''
 A Nature Conservancy report a few years ago linked the decline in children's interest in the outdoors to their being under ''virtual house arrest'' to electronic media, spending 6.5 hours a day face-planted in Facebook, Xbox, television, a text-tablet or some other device.
 It's not that this generation of young people is different from previous ones. Human beings need nature to live full lives -- always have, always will. Thus, when rangers at Rainier started an experiment this summer to bring families from Seattle's poorest neighborhoods on their first-time camping excursions in the park, ''we had far more people who wanted to try it than we were able to accommodate,'' said Kevin Bacher, a park ranger.
 The idea that every citizen holds title to these lands, the Burns film notes, is ''as uniquely American as the Declaration of Independence, and just as radical.''
 Black soldiers in Yosemite and Yellowstone were among the first park rangers. During the Great Depression, Franklin Roosevelt put the urban unemployed, people who had never slept under the stars, to work in places like Glacier Park and Death Valley. They left lasting improvements in the parks, while the land had a similar effect on the workers.
 Ten years ago, President Bill Clinton's African-American park superintendent, Robert Stanton, introduced a plan to make the uniformed work force look more like America and to reach out to urban areas. 
 But it was not enough. The parks need Obama-era branding. So, the first family should go ahead and spend that week at Martha's Vineyard in August, playing scrabble with Hillary and Bill, clamming with Spike Lee. But it would not take much for Michelle and her brood to visit the people's land. 
 Maybe an overnight in Acadia, the first national park east of the Mississippi. Or a trip to the California home of Eugene O'Neill, America's only Nobel Prize-winning playwright. Alas, the O'Neill national historic site had a mere 2,440 visitors last year -- a lonely home for the creation of ''A Moon for the Misbegotten.''
 Or how about a stopover at Gettysburg's new visitor center, where one of the first things that now greets a visitor is an image of slaves. ''People used to tour the battlefield and come away still wondering what we were fighting about,'' said Alan Spears of the National Parks Conservation Association. 
 From that graveyard to the glaciers of Rainier, this land, this history, is a shared birthright. But we are absentee owners, at best, if we don't create a new generation of stewardship. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BASEBALL (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); GARDENING (73%); WRITERS (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); NUTRITION (61%); OBESITY (60%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (55%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (90%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (90%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



329 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Essay; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: There's No Future in Being an Oracle

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
WHEN, oh when, will this recession end? Everyone is looking for the signs, but the usual indicators give little comfort. After months when the pace of job losses eased, the latest Labor Department figures showed that 467,000 Americans lost their jobs in June, suggesting that a recovery was still a long slog away. The markets are skittish and unsettled. 
 It's time for an oracle -- someone who can help us figure out whether the economy is on the mend, and whether it's safe to invest again. 
But where is this seer? The field of candidates is awfully thin. Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman once known in some circles as ''the Oracle,'' has lost a lot of his luster. Leading the Fed just before an economic crisis can do that to a person. Another guy who gets pegged with the ''O'' word, of course, is Warren E. Buffett, the investor from Omaha. But he does not give stock tips.
 So I guess it's up to me. 
 I'm new to the oracle game, but it looks like a cushy gig so long as you don't say anything that turns out to be wrong -- or, at least, so long as you never admit you're wrong. 
 In search of inspiration, I picked up the I Ching, the ancient Chinese ''Book of Changes'' that has been consulted for centuries. I've held on to a dusty Bollingen Series text since my college days. To consult the oracle, you cast yarrow straws or, in a pinch, coins, and match the results with one of 64 hexagrams. Then you read and interpret the text that accompanies the hexagram. Got that?
 Sitting at the dinner table with the I Ching and some pennies, I formed a question in my mind: ''Is it time to begin investing again?''
 After casting the coins, the hexagram emerged. The associated text read:
 Things cannot retreat forever.
 That sounded promising. But then things got pretty deep: 
 Thunder in heaven above: 
 The image of The Power of the Great.
 It only got murkier from there. But that's oracles for you. 
 So I moved on to a more modern oracular device: the Magic 8 Ball. Sure, it's a kid's toy. But you have to acknowledge that its answers sound darned profound.
 Because I'm a high-tech kind of guy, I went to the Mattel Web site, which has a virtual Magic 8 Ball that you can shake online. 
 Again, I focused, then asked: ''Has the recession reached the turnaround point?'' The answer came:
 Signs point to yes.
 Cool! I probed further: ''Is it time to put money back into the market?''
 My reply is no.
 Dang. ''Should I begin investing again before the end of the summer, then?''
 Most likely.
 Now we're getting somewhere. ''When I do get back in, and are index funds the way to go?''
 Ask again later.
 I waited a few seconds. ''Is it later yet?''
 It is certain.
 ''Are index funds the way to go?''
 Reply hazy, ask again.
 This was becoming as frustrating as listening to Congressional testimony by Mr. Greenspan.
 I decided to return to the ancients. The Bible says the high priest of the ancient Hebrews relied on oracular doodads called the Urim and Thummim. Nobody these days knows precisely what they were or how they were used, and there are only a handful of mentions in the Bible. The problem is that the Urim and Thummim have disappeared. 
 That is, unless somebody isn't telling. 
 Hmm. Who seems to have made a lot of really good decisions lately? Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina clearly is out. So are most investment bankers.
 This brought me back to Mr. Buffett. While his record isn't perfect, his investing prowess is legendary. Could he be getting some help from the ancient oracular doodads?
 I called Omaha. A woman with a friendly and professional voice answered the phone at Mr. Buffett's office. I explained that I was a reporter from The New York Times, and that I was searching for the Urim and Thummim. 
 ''I don't even know what you're referencing,'' she said. 
 No problem. Nobody knows what the Urim and Thummim were, I explained. This didn't seem to help, and her tone went from confused to cool. 
 I asked her name. ''I don't think I'm going to tell you,'' she said.
 Could she at least let me know if Mr. Buffett might have left the Urim and Thummim just, you know, lying around?
 ''I'm going to have to let you go, sir. Thank you.'' And with that -- you might find this hard to believe -- she hung up on me. 
 Sigh. I didn't even get to ask whether Mr. Buffett's co-oracle, Charles T. Munger, had them. 
 This oracle business is tougher than it looks.
 I DECIDED to take one more crack at this: divining the future by means of the old entrails-of-a-goat routine. 
 Now, goat guts aren't part of my usual shopping run, but a food writer I know, Robb Walsh, noted on his Facebook page that he had recently bought a whole baby goat to grill up. I sent Robb a note asking if he had gutted the goat himself and, if so, whether he had happened to see the economy's future in the aforementioned guts.
 Robb said the goat came pre-gutted but that the kidneys were still attached. While it cooked, he said, the fat around the kidneys melted and dripped, ''which caused my mesquite fire to flare up and scorch the loin a little.''
 ''So if I had to extrapolate stock market advice from the little bit of goat entrails I had to work with,'' he wrote, ''I'd say when things get cooking and the fat hits the fire, you better move fast or your loin is going to get burnt.''
 I might not make the grade as an oracle, but Robb shows real promise. If Ben Bernanke doesn't work out as Fed chairman, Robb's got my vote. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS)
 CHART: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (76%); DISMISSALS (73%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); WARREN BUFFETT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



330 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: A Career Path As Unpredictable As His Pitch

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
The first baseman loved throwing knuckleballs. That was a problem for Stan Cliburn in his first managing job with the Watertown Pirates in upstate New York in 1988. Almost every day, Cliburn began fielding practice by reminding his first baseman to throw the ball straight.
 ''I'd catch him throwing that knuckleball around the infield all the time,'' Cliburn said. ''I had to tell him we weren't fooling around.''
 Tim Wakefield, the frolicking first baseman, tried to entertain teammates before Cliburn marched on the field. but he was perpetually caught fiddling with the pitch. Before long, Cliburn and others learned, Wakefield was not fooling around anymore.
 What started as an aimless way to toss a pitch that danced eventually became Wakefield's vocation. He realized that a .189 batting average in his first season at Class A was going to make him an afterthought. By his second season, Wakefield had begun the transformation from a floundering hitter to an apprentice knuckleball pitcher. 
 The transformation was steady, then superlative, then stagnant, then steady, remarkably steady, in the last 15 seasons with Boston. Wakefield has been a reliable back-of-the-rotation starter for the Red Sox, a solid pitcher who devours innings and succeeds with a pitch no faster than 68 miles per hour. 
 And at the age of 42, after uncorking thousands of knuckleballs since his major league debut with Pittsburgh in 1992, Wakefield will make his first appearance at the All-Star Game on Tuesday in St. Louis. The knuckleball was a desperate way for him to prop up a teetering career. But he has used the pitch to tiptoe to 189 wins, to secure two World Series rings and to keep going and going. 
 ''It's a pretty cool story,'' Wakefield said. ''It makes me understand how blessed I am to have had a second chance.''
 He said his selection for the All-Star team was his first since he was chosen for a travel squad in Florida as an 18-year-old. He is 11-3 to lead the American League in wins, but he also has a 4.31 earned run average, which is not in the league's top 20. Still, Wakefield, who is the oldest first-time All-Star since Satchel Paige at 46 in 1952, said he valued innings pitched more than any other statistic.
 Wakefield was a phenomenal rookie who almost helped Barry Bonds and the Pirates reach the World Series in 1992. Three years later, his knuckleball had taken too many unexplained detours, so the Pirates released him. Wakefield was unemployed for six days before Boston signed him to a minor league contract.
 Since then, he has performed like a pitcher who punches a clock. Wakefield has started more games than any other pitcher in Red Sox history and has also been their closer.
 He gave up a devastating home run to the Yankees' Aaron Boone in the 2003 postseason. A year later, he saved the bullpen in a blowout Game 3 loss during the A.L. Championship Series, an unselfish move that helped the Red Sox as they rallied to stun the Yankees in seven games, then won their first World Series in 86 years.
 ''Sometimes, pitchers drift into never-never land on the days they don't start,'' said Toronto's Kevin Millar, Wakefield's former teammate. ''As a position player, you appreciate guys that are in the dugout when they're not starting. Wakey was always there.''
 Wakefield's achievements almost never happened. He homered in his first pro at-bat, which might have been the highlight of his hitting career. He was not immediately assigned to a minor league team by the Pirates in 1989, his second pro season, so he stayed at extended spring training. That can be a baseball wasteland.
 Fortunately for Wakefield, Woody Huyke, who managed the Gulf Coast League Pirates, spotted him flipping a knuckleball in the outfield on a steamy day in Sarasota, Fla. Huyke asked him to throw a few more. Then Huyke asked him to take the mound and float more pitches. Huyke studied the ball's gyrations and locked that image into his memory. 
 During an organizational meeting later that season, Huyke said, the Pirates discussed releasing Wakefield because he had shown no promise. An eighth-round draft pick who signed for $15,000, Wakefield did not come close to being the hitter who set home run records at the Florida Institute of Technology. At that point, Huyke interjected.
 ''I told them, 'If you're going to release him, make sure you look at his knuckleball,' '' Huyke said. ''The ball had a lot of movement. You never knew where it was going to go.''
 Wakefield had told Cliburn, his first manager, he would never make it to the majors as a hitter, so he happily agreed to undergo a drastic makeover to try to master a trick pitch.
 ''I had to do it or finish school and get a job,'' Wakefield said. ''I had to take it seriously.''
 He was emotionally drained in his first minor league season because his grandfather Lester died less than a month after he arrived in Watertown. Wakefield struck out 92 times in 256 at-bats over two seasons, so throwing the knuckleball gave him some freedom. 
 Joe Ausanio, a former Yankees pitcher who played with him at Watertown, said Wakefield had tremendous power and was a stellar athlete. But Ausanio said that Wakefield's long swing ''had some holes'' and that he could not adjust to hitting sliders.
 ''When he hit it, he really hit it,'' Ausanio said. ''But when he didn't, he looked foolish.''
 So Wakefield the hitter looked the way Wakefield the pitcher often makes hitters look.
 ''He messes you up,'' said Boston's Dustin Pedroia, who has faced Wakefield in spring training. ''He controls it. He can move it left or right. He's perfected a pitch that pretty much no one else throws.''
 Millar jokingly described Wakefield as a pitcher who is ''66 years old and throws 65 miles an hour.'' But he also offered a serious scouting report.
 ''The problem is he can make you look as stupid as you can,'' Millar said.
 As Wakefield sat in the first-base dugout at Fenway Park on Thursday, he recalled some important knuckleball mileposts. The day he first threw the pitch to his father in the backyard, the conversation he taped with the knuckleballer Charlie Hough so he could repeatedly absorb the advice, and his gradual ability to handle any failure that stemmed from throwing a pitch as soft as a marshmallow.
 Twenty years ago, Wakefield became a knuckleball pitcher, not a pitcher who throws a knuckleball. To the proud Wakefield, there is a major distinction between those descriptions. Wakefield is a knuckleball pitcher and has been ever since he stopped fooling around. 
 ''It was my only option,'' he said. ''I had to take that road.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Red Sox knuckleballer Tim Wakefield, 42, is a first-time All-Star. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ERIC SHELTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
As a rookie with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1992, Wakefield, with catcher Don Slaught, went 8-1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN SWART/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.SP1)
 Tim Wakefield, as a first baseman with Class A Watertown, entertained teammates by tossing knuckleballs in fielding practice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER R. BARBER/WATERTOWN DAILY TIMES) (pg.SP2) CHART: SOME STARS ARE BORN PRETTY LATE: Tim Wakefield is not the only player to make his first All-Star Game at an advanced age. (pg.SP2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES (91%); BOSTON RED SOX (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



331 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Trips Get Canceled, So Beware

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
AS part of a trip to Patagonia in March, Stephen and Donna Bower from Chevy Chase, Md., booked a six-night cruise for about $3,440. But several days before the trip, the couple received an e-mail message saying that the ship's Chilean operator, Skorpios, had canceled the cruise because too few passengers had signed up. 
 Though the Bowers were offered a full refund, they had to pay the penalties for changing airfare and canceling hotel rooms at the last minute. With few options, they decided to take a shorter Skorpios cruise, which operated out of a different port, in lieu of the refund. While the company tossed in a picnic, the Bowers lost a day of cruising, not to mention more than $500. 
 As tour operators cancel trips amid soft bookings, travelers are paying the price. But it's possible to avoid getting stiffed if you understand the system. 
 Operators set dates and prices as much as 18 months ahead so they can be printed in brochures. ''Everybody in this industry takes a risk,'' said Peggy Goldman, president of Friendly Planet Travel in Jenkintown, Pa. ''You make an assumption that people are going to want to take that trip and enough of them will travel to justify what you've done.'' 
 Before the economy tanked, this wasn't much of a gamble. Tour operators didn't have to worry about finding enough paying customers to cover costs. With demand outpacing supply, trips filled up fast and travelers were trained to book early. 
 But the recession has changed all that. Besides taking fewer trips, travelers are holding out for last-minute deals. This is forcing tour operators to revise their calculus and cancel more trips.
 Tour operators are protected by fine print that basically says: We reserve the right to cancel any trip because of low enrollment. Consumers, on the other hand, face a double standard. While companies are free to cancel anytime, customers who want to back out are usually offered zero refund. 
 Ximena Karadima, a sales manager for Skorpios, the company that canceled the Bowers' cruise, said it offers customers a full refund or the option to move to a different cruise when too few passengers sign up. She also pointed out that the Bowers were offered an alternative itinerary that was more expensive. 
 ''We understand their frustration, but we gave a solution,'' she said. ''We offered our best.''
 So how do you protect yourself from being bumped from a tour? 
 Talk numbers. Don't be afraid to specifically ask the tour operator about the reliability of the departure date. How many people have signed up so far? What is the minimum number you need for the trip to go? When will the company decide if the trip must be canceled? And how soon will you be notified? 
 If you're interested in a new tour to Alaska in the fall, but only five people have committed for 50 spots, you may be better off finding a company with a comparable trip that is two-thirds sold. 
 Look for so-called guaranteed tours. These trips, offered by most companies, are guaranteed to take place no matter how many sign up, though this year fewer tours seem to be guaranteed. 
 Trafalgar Tours is offering about 15 percent fewer trips that come with some form of reassurance this year compared with 2008. Globus and Cosmos are guaranteeing about 60 percent of all trips. 
 Collette Vacations, based in Pawtucket, R.I., is guaranteeing 75 percent of its 2009 trips. While that's the same ratio the company guaranteed last year, the overall number of departures is down.
 Usually, only the most popular trips are guaranteed. Trafalgar, for example, was guaranteeing 11 of its 18 Italian Holiday trips this year, compared with none for its China trips, according to a recent check of the company's Web site.
 Some tour operators take a different approach. Country Walkers, based in Waterbury, Vt., for example, won't cancel a trip as long as a customer has paid up 90 days before departure. The staffing, however, may change. For instance, when only two guests booked its Tuscany trip earlier this year, the itinerary remained the same, but the guide also became the driver. 
 ''We've found if we treat guests right,'' said Jamen Yeaton-Masi, Country Walker's director of operations, ''they'll come back.''
 Hold off on airline tickets. To avoid change fees or cancellation penalties, wait until you have more assurance that the trip is a go before booking airline tickets. The same goes for hotels, though many will let you cancel without penalty several days beforehand. 
 Another option: make your flight arrangements through the tour operator, which will typically handle changes and waive any fees should the company cancel the trip. 
 Look for tiered-pricing tours. Some companies, including Mountain Travel Sobek and Wilderness Travel, offer trips with prices that vary depending on how many people sign up. While such trips can get expensive if too few people book, they are also less likely to be canceled. 
 For example, Wilderness Travel, based in Berkeley, Calif., offers a nine-day hike in the Pyrenees in Spain that costs $5,395 a person if 6 to 10 people sign up, but $4,795 if 13 to 15 people join.
 ''With this system, no matter what the economy is doing, a full trip will cost less per person than a trip with just 5 or 6 participants,'' said Barbara Banks, a spokeswoman for Wilderness Travel. ''The upside of this for the client is that they know that the trip will go.'' 
 Finally, read the fine print. Mr. Bower, whose cruise was called off, learned this the hard way, even though he considers himself to be a savvy traveler. ''We always buy health insurance when going overseas,'' he said. The canceled cruise was ''an eye-opener.'' 
 TRIP SAVERS Ask questions, including minimum customers needed. Find out how many slots are filled. Book a guaranteed tour. Look for tiered-pricing tours. Wait to book airfare and hotels. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA ROTHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); AIR FARES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



332 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5709 words

HEADLINE: A Call to Jihad, Answered in America

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT; Ramla Bile contributed reporting from Minneapolis and Margot Williams from New York.

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
The Carlson School of Management rises from the asphalt like a monument to capitalist ambition. Stock prices race across an electronic ticker near a sleek entrance and the atrium soars skyward, as if lifting the aspirations of its students. The school's plucky motto is ''Nowhere but here.''
 For a group of students who often met at the school, on the University of Minnesota campus, those words seemed especially fitting. They had fled Somalia as small boys, escaping a catastrophic civil war. They came of age as refugees in Minneapolis, embracing basketball and the prom, hip-hop and the Mall of America. By the time they reached college, their dreams seemed within grasp: one planned to become a doctor; another, an entrepreneur. 
 But last year, in a study room on the first floor of Carlson, the men turned their energies to a different enterprise. 
 ''Why are we sitting around in America, doing nothing for our people?'' one of the men, Mohamoud Hassan, a skinny 23-year-old engineering major, pressed his friends.
 In November, Mr. Hassan and two other students dropped out of college and left for Somalia, the homeland they barely knew. Word soon spread that they had joined the Shabaab, a militant Islamist group aligned with Al Qaeda that is fighting to overthrow the fragile Somali government. 
 The students are among more than 20 young Americans who are the focus of what may be the most significant domestic terrorism investigation since Sept. 11. One of the men, Shirwa Ahmed, blew himself up in Somalia in October, becoming the first known American suicide bomber. The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Robert M. Mueller, has said Mr. Ahmed was ''radicalized in his hometown in Minnesota.'' 
 An examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with close friends and relatives of the men, law enforcement officials and lawyers, as well as access to live phone calls and Facebook messages between the men and their friends in the United States, reveals how a far-flung jihadist movement found a foothold in America's heartland. 
 The men appear to have been motivated by a complex mix of politics and faith, and their communications show how some are trying to recruit other young Americans to their cause. 
 The case represents the largest group of American citizens suspected of joining an extremist movement affiliated with Al Qaeda. Although friends say the men have never thought of carrying out attacks in the United States, F.B.I. officials worry that with their training, ideology and American passports, there is a real danger that they could.
 ''This case is unlike anything we have encountered,'' said Ralph S. Boelter, the special agent in charge of the F.B.I.'s Minneapolis office, which is leading the investigation.
 Most of the men are Somali refugees who left the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul in two waves, starting in late 2007. While religious devotion may have predisposed them to sympathize with the Islamist cause in Somalia, it took a major geopolitical event -- the Ethiopian invasion of their homeland in 2006 -- to spur them to join what they saw as a legitimate resistance movement, said friends of the men.
 For many of the men, the path to Somalia offered something personal as well -- a sense of adventure, purpose and even renewal. In the first wave of Somalis who left were men whose uprooted lives resembled those of immigrants in Europe who have joined the jihad. They faced barriers of race and class, religion and language. Mr. Ahmed, the 26-year-old suicide bomber, struggled at community colleges before dropping out. His friend Zakaria Maruf, 30, fell in with a violent street gang and later stocked shelves at a Wal-Mart. 
 If failure had shadowed this first group of men, the young Minnesotans who followed them to Somalia were succeeding in America. Mr. Hassan, the engineering student, was a rising star in his college community. Another of the men was a pre-med student who had once set his sights on an internship at the Mayo Clinic. They did not leave the United States for a lack of opportunity, their friends said; if anything, they seemed driven by unfulfilled ambition.
 ''Now they feel important,'' said one friend, who remains in contact with the men and, like others, would only speak anonymously because of the investigation. 
 The case has forced federal agents and terrorism analysts to rethink some of their most basic assumptions about the vulnerability of Muslim immigrants in the United States to the lure of militant Islam. For years, it seemed that ''homegrown'' terrorism was largely a problem in European countries like Britain and France, where Muslim immigrants had failed to prosper economically or integrate culturally. By contrast, experts believed that the successful assimilation of foreign-born Muslims in the United States had largely immunized them from the appeal of radical ideologies. 
 The story of the Twin Cities men does not lend itself to facile categorizations. They make up a minuscule percentage of their Somali-American community, and it is unclear whether their transformation reflects any broader trend. Nor are they especially representative of the wider Muslim immigrant population, which has enjoyed a stable and largely middle-class existence.
 Even among the world's jihadists, the young men from Minneapolis are something of an exception: in their instant messages and cellphone calls, they seem caught between inner-city America and the badlands of Africa, pining for Starbucks one day, extolling the virtues of camel's milk and Islamic fundamentalism the next. 
 ''Allah will never change the situation of a people unless they change themselves,'' Mr. Hassan, the engineering student, wrote in a Facebook message he posted on April 15. ''Take a sec and think about your situation deeply. What change do you need to make?''
 Generation of Refugees
 Shirwa Ahmed climbed the worn, concrete steps of Roosevelt High School on his first day as a freshman in September 1996. 
 A slim boy with a watchful gaze, he was one of hundreds of Somali teenagers who had landed at the school in southeastern Minneapolis. Some had never seen a drinking fountain. Others did not know how to hold a pencil, recalled the school's principal, Bruce Gilman. They carried unspeakable traumas. A number of the students had witnessed their parents being killed. 
 ''It's almost unimaginable what some of these kids went through,'' Mr. Gilman said.
 The country they had fled, on the eastern tip of Africa, was embroiled in a civil war that had left it without a functioning government since 1991.
 The anarchy reached American televisions two years later, when warlords shot down two Black Hawk helicopters, killing 18 United States soldiers. By then, tens of thousands of Somalis had died and a mass exodus had begun.
 A generation of Somalis grew up in the overcrowded refugee camps of northern Kenya, where malaria, scorpion infestations and hunger took their toll. Tales of America sustained them. Clean water was said to flow freely in kitchens, and simple jobs like plucking chickens paid handsomely. 
 Proof came in the cash sent by a first wave of refugees who had arrived in the United States in the early 1990s. Minneapolis, with its robust social services and steady supply of unskilled jobs, quickly became the capital of their North American diaspora.
 When they ended their shifts as cabdrivers or janitors, many Somalis retreated from American life. They had transformed a blighted stretch near the Mississippi River into a Little Mogadishu, commandeering a grim collection of cinderblock buildings known as the Towers -- a onetime fictional residence of the heroine of ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show.''
 They cut their hair at Somali barber shops, prayed at Somali mosques and organized themselves along the same clan lines that had divided them for decades, calling on tribal elders to settle family disputes and community rifts. 
 If the adults kept their distance from American culture, their children had little choice but to dive in. 
 At Roosevelt, Mr. Ahmed was a quick study. He memorized Ice Cube's lyrics. He practiced for hours on neighborhood basketball courts. He took note of the clothing and vernacular of his African-American classmates, emulating what he could.
 His pants sagged, but never too much. He spoke of ''homeboys'' and used the ''n'' word, but gave careful regard to the school's rules. When a classmate's purse was stolen, it was Mr. Ahmed who dutifully turned in the thief. 
 Much as he tried, he failed to fit in. 
 You're not black, his peers taunted. Go back to Africa.
 Somali and African-American students clashed frequently at the school, but Mr. Ahmed seemed ill-suited to the fight. Taciturn by nature, he recoiled at the taunts, his close friend Nicole Hartford said. 
 ''How can they be mad at me for looking like them?'' she recalled him saying. ''We're from the same place.''
 Even as Mr. Ahmed met rejection at school, he faced disapproval from relatives, who complained that he was mixing with ''ghetto people,'' Ms. Hartford recalled. It was a classic conundrum for young Somalis: how to be one thing at school and another at home. 
 Developments in the homeland, followed obsessively by the adults, held little interest among teenagers. They rolled their eyes at the older men known as ''the sitting warriors,'' who debated clan politics with such gusto at one Starbucks that the staff bought a decibel meter to ensure that the noise did not rise above legal limits. 
 Yet young men like Mr. Ahmed remained tethered to Somalia by the remittances they were pressed to send. After school every day, he joined a stream of teenagers headed for the airport, where he pushed passengers in wheelchairs. He sent half of his income to Somalia, to ''relatives we don't even know,'' his friend Nimco Ahmed said.
 The war had torn families apart, and fathers were in short supply. Somali boys struggled most visibly. The financial strain on families like Mr. Ahmed's, which was headed by an older sister, proved staggering. Of the estimated 100,000 Somalis in the United States, more than 60 percent live in poverty, according to recent census data. 
 After graduating from high school in 2000, Mr. Ahmed seemed to flounder, taking community college classes while working odd jobs, friends said. But he had done better than many peers, who turned to crime and gangs like Murda Squad and Rough Tough Somalis. 
 At the root of the problem was a ''crisis of belonging,'' said Mohamud Galony, a science tutor who was friends with Mr. Ahmed and is the uncle of another boy who left. Young Somalis had been raised to honor their families' tribes, yet felt disconnected from them. ''They want to belong, but who do they belong to?'' said Mr. Galony, 23. 
 By 2004, Mr. Ahmed had found a new circle of friends. These religious young men, pegged as ''born-agains'' or ''fundis,'' set themselves apart by their dress. Their trousers had gone from sagging to short, emulating the Prophet Muhammad, who was said to have kept his clothes from touching the ground. 
 Perhaps none of Mr. Ahmed's contemporaries had undergone a transformation like that of Zakaria Maruf. 
 A short boy prone to fits of rage, Mr. Maruf began running afoul of the law at the age of 14. For a time, he fell in with the Hot Boyz, a violent street gang. 
 He seemed to crave recognition. Known on the basketball court as Zak, he was a mediocre athlete, but he pushed himself harder than anyone else, recalled his coach, Ahmed Dahir. 
 Mr. Maruf threw himself into Islam with the same intensity, becoming a fixture at a mosque near the Towers, where he mastered the call to prayer. ''He had an ego the size of Minnesota,'' one fellow mosque member said. ''It was, 'Look at me.' ''
 Mr. Ahmed and Mr. Maruf were sometimes seen preaching to kids on the street, offering their own lives as examples of reform. Yet they continued to struggle. 
 Mr. Maruf's criminal record had foiled his search for a job. When he proposed to a young woman in 2005, her parents scoffed, one friend recalled. They did not want their daughter winding up ''on welfare,'' they told Mr. Maruf, who worked at a Wal-Mart.
 ''They think that life is about money and material things, but watch what that will do for them,'' Mr. Maruf told the friend one afternoon, sitting slumped at the mosque. 
 He seemed to be searching for a clean slate. Both he and Mr. Ahmed would find it thousands of miles away.
 A Political Awakening
 In 2006, an Islamist movement swept through Somalia and seized control, giving the country its first taste of peace in a generation.
 The group, known as the Islamic Courts Union, promised to end 15 years of internecine violence by uniting Somalia's clans under the banner of Islam. Key ports were reopened, and order was restored to the capital, Mogadishu. 
 In Washington, officials of the Bush administration saw a threat to East African stability. Hard-line factions of the Courts were thought to be sheltering Qaeda operatives and had declared a jihad against neighboring Ethiopia, a predominantly Christian country. In December 2006, Ethiopian troops crossed the border and routed the Islamist forces with intelligence support from the United States, beginning a two-year occupation. 
 These events triggered a political awakening among young Somalis in Minneapolis. They had long viewed their homeland's problems as hopelessly clan-based, but the Ethiopian campaign simplified things. Here was an external enemy against which young Somalis could unite.
 Spurred by a newfound sense of nationalism, college students distributed T-shirts emblazoned with the Somali flag and held demonstrations during a frigid Minnesota winter. 
 The protests took on a religious dimension as well. While the United States had defended the Ethiopian invasion as a front in the global war on terrorism, many Somalis saw it as a Christian crusade into a Muslim land. They were outraged at reports of Ethiopian troops raping Somali women, looting mosques and killing civilians. 
 If the Ethiopians were seen as infidel invaders, an insurgent group known as the Shabaab -- ''youth,'' in Arabic -- was emerging as ''freedom fighters.'' In its online propaganda, the Shabaab conflated nationalist sentiments with religious ideology, following a tactic honed by Al Qaeda. 
 The Shabaab began releasing videos portraying Somalia's struggle as part of a global movement to defend Islam and restore its rule. Foreign recruits were promised ''victory or martyrdom'' for enlisting. Several American converts to Islam joined up. 
 The recruitment of the Twin Cities men can be traced to a group of Somali immigrants from Northern Europe and other countries who, in 2005, traveled to Somalia to fight with the Islamist movement, a senior law enforcement official said. A handful of those men later went to Minneapolis, the official said, and helped persuade the first large group from the Twin Cities to leave for Somalia starting in late 2007.
 That first wave consisted of men in their 20s and 30s who had been fixtures at the Abubakar As-Saddique Islamic Center, the largest Somali mosque in Minneapolis. They included an emergency medical technician, a former waiter, a car-rental employee and Shirwa Ahmed, the onetime Roosevelt student who now wore a thick beard and silk gown. 
 That fall, Mr. Ahmed announced to friends that he was moving to the Middle East to study Islam. After he left for Saudi Arabia to make hajj, the obligatory pilgrimage to Mecca, his nephew wrote to a friend, ''My uncle is a changed man.'' 
 The following spring, Zakaria Maruf, the former gang member, vanished. Shortly after his disappearance, two teenage boys walked into a travel agency near the Towers, clutching their Somali passports, recalled Abia Ali, an accountant at the agency. 
 Ms. Ali recognized the boys from the mosque and suspected that they planned to follow Mr. Maruf to Somalia. She warned the mosque's leaders, who alerted the boys' parents and then summoned a meeting with the mosque's young members. 
 ''All this talk of the movement must stop,'' the imam, Sheikh Abdirahman Sheikh Omar Ahmed, recalled telling the crowd. ''Focus on your life here. If you become a doctor or an engineer, you can help your country. Over there you will be a dead body on the street.''
 In the audience were several young men who would soon disappear.
 'Our Best Kids'
 If the first men who left for Somalia had struggled to find their place in America, the boys to follow were ''our best kids,'' in the words of one uncle.
 Mohamoud Hassan outdid most of his peers at Roosevelt High School in 2006, becoming one of the few Somali boys to make it to college that year. 
 He stood out at the University of Minnesota. Answering to the nickname Snake, the tall, lanky freshman wore a black cotton beret and a pencil-thin moustache. Women found him clownishly charming, occasionally giving in to his pleas for their ''digits.'' The engineering major tried to cultivate a more serious image, writing poetry, debating politics and poring through ''The Autobiography of Malcolm X,'' his friend Hindia Ali recalled. 
 Even his closest friends found Mr. Hassan an enigma. He had come to the United States without parents or siblings and looked after his ailing grandmother in a dim apartment in the Towers. He longed to return to his homeland, both to experience it for himself and to rebuild it. It was a common obsession among his friends. ''It's just this missing piece of us,'' his friend Ruqia Mohamed said.
 After the Ethiopian invasion, a circle of listeners sometimes gathered around Mr. Hassan at the Coffman student center. Mr. Hassan, then the vice president of the Minnesota Somali Student Union, defended the occupation, posting an essay on Facebook assailing the insurgents as ''a handful of thugs.'' 
 But over time, he began to see things differently. 
 Mr. Hassan's interest in the Islamist movement dovetailed with his own religious transformation, friends said. In the fall of 2007 he began downloading sermons onto his iPod and soon was attending the Abubakar mosque.
 By then, Mr. Hassan had become upset by the reports of rapes in Somalia and set out to learn more about the insurgency, one friend recalled. He began talking of joining the movement as early as February 2008, around the same time that a friend from the mosque -- Mr. Maruf, the former gang member -- left for Somalia. 
 ''I wanted to go, so I got to know him,'' Mr. Hassan said in a recent telephone conversation from Somalia with a Minneapolis friend. 
 That May, he was incensed by a United States military air strike that killed Aden Hashi Ayro, a leader of the Shabaab, along with at least 10 civilians. ''How dare they?'' Mr. Hassan demanded one afternoon at the student center. ''Who is the terrorist?''
 Mr. Hassan and another university student searched the Internet for jihadist videos and chat rooms, the friend said. They listened to ''Constants on the Path to Jihad,'' lectures by the Yemeni cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who is suspected of inciting Muslims in the West to violence. 
 While Somali nationalism had initially driven the men, a friend said, their cause eventually took on a religious cast. They became convinced that Somalia's years of bloodshed were punishment from God for straying from Islam, the friend said. The answer was to restore the Caliphate, or Islamic rule. 
 ''They saw it as their duty to go and fight,'' the friend said. ''If it was just nationalism, they could give money. But religion convinced them to sacrifice their whole life.''
 Over the next few months, the men communicated frequently with Zakaria Maruf, who was then in southern Somalia trying to recruit men in Minneapolis to join him, said a senior law enforcement official and a lawyer, Stephen L. Smith, who represents one of the men Mr. Maruf approached.
 Mr. Maruf reached out through listservs and conference calls arranged by a teenage boy who distributed 800 numbers and passwords so people could listen in. Mr. Maruf had little trouble finding an audience for his pitch in the Twin Cities; he had shuttled boys from the Abubakar mosque to basketball games, and a recording of his call to prayer was a ring tone on the cellphones of young Somalis. 
 In his calls, listeners heard him boast that he had gotten married, had a child and become a governor for the Shabaab. The onetime stock boy with a criminal record was now a figure of authority, if one believed his claims.
 ''He was the 'I'll take you to the battlefield' person,'' one acquaintance said. 
 Despite all the spirited talk of the jihad, Mohamoud Hassan, the engineering student, seemed to waver, friends recalled. The tipping point, one said, may have come that September when a close friend was shot dead outside a youth center -- the fifth slaying of a young Somali in the Twin Cities in a year. 
 ''I used to think that death only happens to old people,'' Mr. Hassan told his friend Ruqia Mohamed. ''But he was young -- my age. I guess I could die tomorrow.''
 Mr. Hassan began spending much of his time with a small group of men that included a pre-med student, an electrical engineering student, a white 27-year-old convert and a pesky 17-year-old Roosevelt senior. The boy, known as Little Bashir, had memorized the Koran and talked of going to Harvard.
 The men acted secretive, friends recalled, meeting alone in a study room at the Carlson building, where Mr. Hassan and the pre-med student worked as uniformed security personnel. 
 In late October, the group visited University Travel Services, near the Towers, accompanied by an older man with a gray beard who introduced himself as their uncle, the manager of the agency said in an interview. 
 The ''uncle'' explained that the men wanted to buy tickets to Somalia, and were waiting for passports. Soon after, the young men returned by themselves and paid cash for their tickets, roughly $1,800 apiece, the manager said. 
 They left on different days to avoid drawing attention, a friend said. Mr. Hassan drove to Chicago, where he boarded a plane to Dubai on Nov. 1, according to an itinerary obtained by The Times. By the eve of the United States presidential election three days later, all of the men were gone. 
 Training for Jihad
 As word spread in Minneapolis that a new group of men had disappeared, another piece of jarring news came from Somalia: Shirwa Ahmed had blown himself up. On Oct. 29, 2008, he drove a car packed with explosives into a government compound in Puntland, a region of northern Somalia. 
 The bombing was among five attacks that day coordinated by the Shabaab, which left more than 20 people dead in the group's campaign to eliminate enemies and show their might. The F.B.I. investigated and sent Mr. Ahmed's remains to Minneapolis in November.
 By then, Mr. Hassan and his friends were journeying in the opposite direction. A close friend said the men were met by Zakaria Maruf, the recruiter, and taken to the southern port city of Merka, where they stayed in a ''welcoming house'' run by a Somali woman whom the men called Mama.
 By January, most of the men were at a training camp in southern Somalia, following a strict routine that Mr. Hassan and others described to their Minneapolis friends in phone calls. They woke before dawn to pray and study the Koran. They engaged in rigorous training, running obstacle courses and learning to make bombs.
 As foreign recruits, they received special treatment. These mujahideen slept in a different bunker and were considered to have a higher status, the friend said.
 Mr. Hassan was struck by the diversity of the fighters, who included Chechnyans and converts from Europe. ''I am looking out into the field and I see so many different colors,'' Mr. Hassan told the friend by phone.
 If becoming a jihadist usually means parting with life in the West, the men from Minneapolis soon broke with tradition. They frequently communicated with dozens of friends in the United States whom one acquaintance described as ''the homeys they left behind.''
 Two friends showed The Times the Facebook communications of four of the men, including one whose profile picture was, until recently, of Osama bin Laden. 
 One exchange on Facebook distilled the push and pull: '''Sup dawg,'' one of the men wrote to a friend in late December. ''Bring yourself over here'' to ''M-town,'' the message continued, where the men carry ''all types of guns.''
 ''I ain't goin' over there man,'' the young man answered. ''Dats the same reason we came 2 America Locco.''
 Mr. Hassan and the others claimed to be enjoying their adventure. They had grown up hearing tales about the winding Shabelle River in southern Somalia and the rich taste of camel milk. When they finally swam in the river and drank the milk, they called their friends in Minneapolis, their voices dreamy. 
 The men seemed to revel in their new identity as fighters. One day in March, Mr. Hassan's friend the pre-med student was talking on the phone with someone in Minneapolis when he opened fire with his AK-47. He was checking ''to see if it worked,'' the person recalled him saying. 
 But there were cracks in the men's bravado. While on a boat headed to a Shabaab stronghold in the south, the high school student known as Little Bashir began vomiting so violently that he lost his glasses, his mother said in an interview. After he told her this by phone, she fetched his prescription and read it to him, hoping he would somehow find an optometrist.
 It was hard to imagine this 17-year-old -- a frail, bookish boy who had delighted in calculus -- making his way through war-ravaged Somalia, friends of his said. 
 ''I doubt that he could even pick up a handgun,'' said Mr. Galony, who had tutored the boy in chemistry. 
 If the others seemed hardier, they still had moments of weakness. They missed movies and basketball, deodorant and boxer shorts, they told friends back home. One of the men, who suffered from heartburn, asked if anyone could send him a box of Tums by DHL.
 Their longing for life in America came and went. They encountered more serious challenges in Somalia. By the time some of them entered training, the Shabaab was fast losing popularity. The Ethiopian troops had pulled out, making way for a new Somali president, Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed, the same man who had once led the Islamist movement to which the Shabaab formerly belonged. 
 ''Some of them wondered who they were fighting,'' one friend said.
 The jihadists' conversations with their Minneapolis friends sometimes turned testy. Two of the friends said in interviews that they, like many Somalis, had become sharply critical of the Shabaab. The group has carried out beheadings, amputations and the fatal stoning of a 13-year-old rape victim.
 In April, the Shabaab fired several mortar rounds at a plane carrying Representative Donald M. Payne, a New Jersey Democrat who was leaving Somalia after meeting with the president. 
 ''What, are y'all retarded?'' one of Mr. Maruf's friends, a college student, chided him in a phone call. ''He's our only friend in Congress.''
 ''You have been brainwashed by the media,'' Mr. Maruf shot back. 
 Later, the student thought back on the conversation. ''Sometimes they will talk and you're like, Are you trying to prove this to me or to yourself?'' she said. ''They have this inner struggle.''
 An Inquiry Intensifies
 Ralph S. Boelter had a robust resume by the time he took over the F.B.I.'s Minneapolis office in early 2007. He had worked on white-collar crimes in Boston and violent gangs in Los Angeles. He had investigated the leak of the C.I.A. officer Valerie Wilson's identity.
 Returning to the Midwest put Mr. Boelter, a square-jawed Wisconsin native, back on familiar ground. But less than two years later, he found himself tasked with one of the most complex terrorism cases since Sept. 11.
 ''Never did I imagine that I would step into this here,'' Mr. Boelter said one recent afternoon.
 In the years since the Sept. 11 attacks, Somalis had remained largely under the law enforcement radar while other Muslim immigrants -- primarily Arabs and South Asians -- experienced the brunt of the raids and scrutiny.
 While federal investigators had tracked the movements of American recruits to the Shabaab since at least early 2008, the F.B.I.'s case did not swing into high gear until after Shirwa Ahmed's suicide attack that fall.
 Investigators in Minneapolis approached Somalis on the street, in their homes, at the Abubakar mosque and on the University of Minnesota campus. Brandishing photographs, the agents asked questions about community figures like the imam of the mosque and its youth director. 
 As the inquiry wore on, community leaders say, more than 50 people were subpoenaed to appear before a federal grand jury in Minneapolis and another jury was convened in San Diego. In April, F.B.I. agents raided three Somali money wiring businesses in Minneapolis. By then, the investigation had expanded to smaller Somali communities in Boston; Seattle; Portland, Me.; and Columbus, Ohio. 
 Somalis in Minneapolis, by turns frightened and intrigued by the inquiry, came up with a Somali code name for the F.B.I. agents in their midst: Fadumo Bashir Ismael. 
 Mr. Boelter tried to counter the negative attention by appearing on Somali television and radio, encouraging people to cooperate with investigators. Yet he has revealed little about the case itself. The scope and intensity of the investigation, he said, is merely commensurate to the danger posed by the men.
 ''If American citizens are joining the Shabaab, the potential threat domestically is serious,'' Mr. Boelter said. ''I think they could be commissioned to come back. Or they could do it on their own because they are philosophically aligned with the Shabaab or Al Qaeda.''
 Senior Qaeda leaders have aggressively promoted Somalia as the latest destination for foreign fighters, said Evan Kohlmann, a terrorism consultant who frequently works for the government. In recent months, a small number of Qaeda operatives have reportedly sought sanctuary there.
 Analysts find the alliance troubling because Al Qaeda has long sought recruits with American and European passports who can cross borders more freely, said Bruce Hoffman, a professor at Georgetown University who studies terrorism.
 There are indications that three Twin Cities men have returned, possibly after defecting from the Shabaab. A friend of the men still in Somalia said they had no thought of attacking America. ''Why would I do that?'' the friend recalled the pre-med student, Adbisalan Ali, saying on the phone last spring. ''My mom could be walking down the street.''
 The central question driving the F.B.I. investigation is whether United States citizens have provided material support to the Shabaab, either in the form of personnel or money. Three local acquaintances of Mr. Maruf, the recruiter, sent him small amounts of money at his request, according to one of the friends and a lawyer for the others. It is not known how the young men who followed him to Somalia paid for their trips. Two of the teenage boys were seen knocking on doors at the Towers last summer, asking for donations for ''an orphanage.'' 
 The full dimensions of the recruitment effort also remain unclear. A close friend of several of the men described the process as ''a chain of friendship'' in which one group encouraged the next.
 ''They want to bring people they are close with because they need that familiarity,'' the friend said. ''They created their own little America in Somalia.''
 The manager of University Travel Services said that since November, he had turned away at least 20 men looking to buy tickets to Somalia, adding that the requests had slowed considerably. Meanwhile, some Somali parents in the Twin Cities have taken to hiding their sons' passports.
 The tension in the community has turned inward at times. Last March, the uncle of Burhan Hassan, the boy known as Little Bashir, testified at a Congressional hearing on the case that the mosque had been ''brainwashing'' the young men and had possibly raised money for the Shabaab. 
 The mosque's leaders denied this, in turn accusing the family and others of shirking responsibility for their own children. ''That's their obligation, to know where their kids are going,'' said Omar Hurre, the mosque's executive director. 
 A Struggle to Understand
 For many older Somalis in Minnesota, the deepest mystery is why so many young refugees would risk their lives and futures to return to a country that their parents struggled to leave.
 The mother of Burhan Hassan had been trying to persuade him to escape to the United States Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, said the uncle, Osman Ahmed.
 The boy had been calling from Somalia, telling her that he was ''fine'' and that he missed her cooking. ''There is no future for me in America anymore,'' she recalled him telling her. ''If I come back they'll send me to Guantanamo.''
 But he finally agreed to leave, and in late May his mother wired him about $800, Mr. Ahmed said. Ten days later, on June 5, she picked up the telephone to learn that her son was dead. 
 He had been shot in the head, a stranger on the phone told Mr. Hassan's mother. Some of the boy's relatives suspect that he was killed to prevent him from cooperating with the American investigation. F.B.I. officials have declined to confirm Mr. Hassan's death.
 Months have passed since the older members of his group completed their training in Somalia. Lately, they seem ''hardened'' and at times radical, a Minneapolis friend said. 
 During one call, the friend asked Mohamoud Hassan, the engineering student, what it was like to kill people. He told of getting ''an adrenaline rush,'' the friend recalled, and joked that he and his friends compared ''body counts.'' 
 Two weeks ago, they spoke again and the conversation turned to the killing of Little Bashir. One of the men had referred to his passing as ''martyrdom'' in a recent Facebook posting.
 Mr. Hassan seemed to agree.
 ''Allah knows how to pick,'' he said. ''The family's feeling sad, but we're feeling happy for him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some young Somali-Americans left their inner-city neighborhood in Minneapolis to fight in Somalia. At right, a drill by Shabaab fighters near Mogadishu.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA ABDI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS -- GETTY IMAGES)
Four Minneapolis residents at the focus of the inquiry. Among them are a suicide bomber and another said by his family to have been shot to death.(pg. A1)
LITTLE MOGADISHU: The Towers, where many Somalis live in Minneapolis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20)
A PLACE FOR ASPIRATIONS: The Carlson School of Management, where some of the men worked as security personnel and met in the months before they left for Somalia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
STRADDLING TWO WORLDS: Mohamoud Hassan, using a different name, reached out to friends from Somalia through Facebook.(pg. A21) CHARTS: The Somalis from Minneapolis: More than 20 men have traveled to Somalia to fight with a Muslim militia in the country's conflict.
THE FIRST WAVE: Starting in late 2007, the first group to leave included men who had struggled as immigrants.
 THE SECOND WAVE: A second wave, in fall 2008, included younger men who had been more successful in America.(Source: UNHCR Somalia)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AL-QAEDA (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); BASKETBALL (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



333 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Summer Of Boredom

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Hello to Underachieving,'' (Sunday Styles, July 5):
 This article refers to growing unemployment among young people as ''underachieving.'' In my work on the Great Depression, social workers, writers and reformers referred to it by another euphemism, ''enforced leisure.'' 
 The New York City Welfare Council Minutes of Jan. 10, 1931, noted that ''at the present time due to lack of work opportunities, many young people are faced with enforced leisure time.''
 They recommended that young people take courses for further ''training or re-training.'' 
 Then, as now, young people are not underachievers -- they are unemployed!
 Suzanne Wasserman
 New York
 The writer is director of the Gotham Center for New York City History at the CUNY Graduate Center.
 To the Editor:
 My only response to those unemployed young people is: ''You'll get over it.''
 From the summers of 1994 through 1996, my generation experienced tough times, with high unemployment. I had just received my degree in 1994, and though headed for graduate school, I needed a summer job. The career-oriented, well-paying jobs were gone. Like many friends, I had to make the best of it -- in my case, secretarial work requiring a 10th-grade education. 
 The next summer, besides working, I organized a conference with another student. I made contacts that remain invaluable, and I now have a thriving career. 
 If these Generation Y-ers are truly overachievers, they'll come out on top. Until then, they should relish the down time. When they're 35, they'll wish for a boring summer. Erin McGinn
 New York
 To the Editor:
 For students without summer jobs, there are plenty of community service opportunities, from fixing up houses for Habitat for Humanity to stocking shelves at the community food bank. 
 They can volunteer with the same enthusiasm they did when they were in high school. If they answer Mr. Obama's call to national service, those empty summer days will be filled with meaningful and productive experiences. Doreen Ladinski
 Warren, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RELAX
 Will Ehrenfeld, Tufts senior, on a summer day at home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANA SURECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); WRITERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); GENERATION Y (67%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



334 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: A Strong Quarter, but an Iffy Outlook

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
LIKE a hurricane downgraded to a tropical storm or maybe a tsunami reclassified as a ripple in a pond, the distress that gripped the economy and financial markets has dissipated greatly. That's what the best performance for stocks in any quarter since 1998 will do for investors' psyches, no matter how awful things seemed just weeks before.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.2 percent in the three months through June, erasing the deep losses of the first quarter and wiping away much of the panic that had accompanied them, too.
 ''A few months ago a lot of people thought the world was coming to an end,'' said James Swanson, chief investment strategist at MFS, a fund manager in Boston. ''Now they're dancing in the streets and going out to restaurants.'' 
 Mr. Swanson and some of his peers are not as footloose as the public. They are hopeful that the worst is behind us, but they question whether the near future will be all that bright.
 Such qualms may not dampen investors' celebrations, or at least their relief, as quarterly statements start arriving from fund providers. The average stock portfolio tracked by Morningstar rose 18.9 percent in the quarter. Bond funds also turned in a respectable performance, up 7.6 percent.
 The markets were so strong in the period that nearly every fund category -- whether in stocks or bonds, or whether specializing in foreign, domestic, growth, value, small-cap, large-cap or various industry groups' shares -- showed a gain. Among the few exceptions were bear funds, which seek to profit from falling share prices, and certain types of government bond funds. (Such ultrasafe investments were so first quarter.)
 Among the highlights, foreign-stock funds rose 25.4 percent on average, with specialists in Asia and Latin America particularly strong. Real estate was the best of seven categories of funds focusing on single industries, gaining 29.8 percent. Financial, communications, technology and financial service funds had returns greater than 20 percent.
 Taking risks paid off for owners of bond funds. Portfolios holding high-yield debt rose 18.9 percent, and emerging-market bond funds were up 15.4 percent.
 Still, a look at performance over the four quarters through June serves as a reminder of just how far the markets had sunk. All major types of stock funds showed double-digit percentage losses, even after the stellar second quarter, as did high-yield and municipal bond funds. Emerging-market bond funds were also down, but less so.
 Perhaps the memory of the staggering losses last fall and winter explains why it took a while for investors to get the spring in their step that Mr. Swanson observed. Michael Hartnett, chief global equity strategist at Banc of America Securities-Merrill Lynch, noted in a report to clients that while stocks bottomed in early March, nearly $10 billion more was pulled out of domestic stock funds in the seven weeks through May 6 than was put into them, evidence that investors were selling into the rally instead of buying.
 Their initial skepticism is understandable. David Kelly, chief market strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds, pointed out that no significant development had occurred in the economy to ignite the rally. ''One of the big questions people were asking is, Did anything change in the economy so dramatically to justify this reversal?'' he recalled. ''No, nothing did.''
 But after the relentless deterioration in conditions over the previous year, Mr. Kelly said, investors decided that no change was good change. ''Everyone was waiting for the other shoe to drop, and day after day none did,'' he said. ''That allowed the market to move back to a level consistent with a long and difficult recession but not Armageddon.''
 For a while, Armageddon had not seemed out of the question. Mr. Kelly noted, for instance, that housing starts had sunk to an annual rate of about 500,000 -- and that 800,000 had been considered a dismal number in past downturns.
 A POSITIVE byproduct of such negative results is that they bring expectations down with them, making them all the easier to exceed. But at some point, he said, investors will begin to require that economic conditions actually get better, not just be better than expected. The flagging momentum in stocks in the last month suggests that that point is near.
 ''We've been stuck between the 'Armageddon-averted rally' being over and waiting for the 'recovery-is-for-real rally,' '' Mr. Kelly said.
 One antsy investor is Kevin Mahn, chief investment officer of Hennion & Walsh Asset Management, a fund management firm in Parsippany, N.J. While the rally is ''much welcomed,'' he said, ''I think we went up too fast without a fundamental basis for a sustained recovery.''
 He is concerned that the basis exists for the opposite. All the money being manufactured to stimulate the economy has created ''an ugly potential burden of inflation,'' he warned. As for the subprime mortgage problems that started the credit crisis, he added, ''I don't think we're out of the woods yet.''
 Mr. Mahn is keeping his clients' money in a hodgepodge of assets, including gold and other commodities; Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, residential real estate investment trusts and small-capitalization stocks.
 Stan Majcher, manager of the Hotchkis & Wiley Mid-Cap Value fund, also questions whether investors have gone from expecting the worst to expecting too much. But even if the market has gotten ahead of itself, he says he thinks it will continue to move in the right direction.
 ''It's unclear how the very short run is going to go, but over all it's a pretty attractive market,'' he said. ''A lot of the market is still 10 times earnings or less. You can buy things at pretty reasonable prices.''
 Among the things he has bought are companies that sell goods and services that people want but typically don't need right away, anything from large home appliances to travel, cars and clothing.
 He also has high hopes for financial services companies. He contends that earnings have been depressed by provisions for bad loans but that these should diminish in the months ahead and that the operating environment should improve substantially.
 Noah Blackstein, manager of the Dynamic Power American Growth fund, prefers technology stocks. They have reasonable valuations, he said, and strong balance sheets, including double the cash as a percentage of market capitalization that the average S.& P. 500 company has.
 Mr. Blackstein remains cautiously optimistic about the rally in the broad market, with an extra emphasis on caution.
 ''Things are not getting worse and in some cases are getting better,'' he said. ''The credit markets, which got us into this mess first, seem to be healing first. The second phase is the stock market recovering.''
 He is reserving judgment on whether that second phase has begun. ''Until proven otherwise,'' he said, ''this is a rally in a bear market.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON)
CHARTS: SECOND QUARTER: APRIL 1JUNE 30, 2009: STOCKS VS. BONDS: Average returns, by fund category.
GROWTH VS. VALUE: Returns in the second quarter.
SECTOR BY SECTOR
 LEADERS AND LAGGARDS: Among general domestic stock funds.(Source: Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



335 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Tenants With Tool Belts

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
WHEN Margaret Smith's Park Slope apartment building developed a rodent problem, she was lucky enough to miss most of the action. 
 ''To me it was invisible; I never saw them,'' she said. 
 That is fortunate indeed, because if she had seen them, she wouldn't have been permitted the luxury of scurrying away. She had to keep an eye on the traps, and alert someone if anything was caught. Ms. Smith, a librarian at New York University, does some part-time superintendent work for her landlord in exchange for a discount on the rent. 
 Throughout New York City, especially in smaller buildings, landlords employ their tenants to handle some day-to-day tasks, like taking out the trash. 
 This can be a good way for owners to save a little money and keep things running smoothly, while tenants get a break on their rent, sometimes $100 to $300 a month. The tenants, though, do not eliminate the need for a professional. Actual superintendents need a variety of skills in order to do their jobs, from basic carpentry to an understanding of sprinkler systems. 
 The New York City Housing Maintenance Code requires that owners certify that their buildings have a janitor or janitorial service with the ability to maintain the heat and hot water, among other duties. The owner must also post the name of a contact person in the building. 
 ''It's not like Schneider on 'One Day at a Time,' who just walked around with a tool belt,'' said Peter Roach, a resident manager at a 20-story building on the Upper East Side and the president of the Superintendents Technical Association, which teaches courses to building service workers. ''You really have to know a lot and be able to multitask.'' 
 Super-tenants, on the other hand, generally have other professions and aren't trained to fix major problems, like broken boilers. They might bring order to recycling chaos, replace burnt-out light bulbs or sweep dust bunnies from the hallways.
 ''In this day and age and in this economy, if someone's going to go to the owner and offer to walk around with a vacuum, it sounds like a pretty good idea to me,'' Mr. Roach said.
 Ms. Smith's duties in Park Slope are usually minimal. She takes out the trash, makes sure the recycling is sorted properly, and lets the exterminator into each of the building's three apartments once a month. If something breaks, she calls the owner's brother, who arranges for repairs to be made. (When rodents attacked, the owner enlisted professional help.)
 In exchange, the owner shaves $125 off her rent, which brings her share of the rent for a three-bedroom apartment to $708 per month. 
 Ms. Smith, 32, has lived in the building for about five years, but inherited these duties only nine months ago, when a neighbor moved out. Her landlord, who lives in Vermont, described her expectations in an e-mail message, ''I need you to be the eyes and ears of the building.''
 ''It's kind of like big brother,'' Ms. Smith said with a smile. ''No, I don't spy on them at all. But I do have keys to their apartments.''
 The arrangement can introduce an awkward dynamic. 
 ''I think it might be a little weird for other tenants,'' Ms. Smith said. ''They feel like I'm having to deal with their trash.''
 ''But it's not a big deal to me,'' she added of her messy duties. ''Otherwise, I would have said no.'' 
 Sonja Kerlen, 46, a nurse practitioner, performs similar chores for the landlord of her three-bedroom apartment in Harlem. 
 ''It's mainly keeping the hallways clean, taking care of the garbage and being the point person,'' she said. ''And it works when you have a good landlord.''
 For her trouble, she receives $250 per month -- a fee that has increased over her nine years there as the rent rose to $2,150. She delegates many of her duties and about half the cash to some men in the neighborhood. James Johnson, who goes by J. J., sorts the recycling and takes out the trash for $20 a week. Another man helps with odd jobs like shoveling snow and moving furniture. 
 The building has a superintendent, but, Ms. Kerlen said, he has a lot of other responsibilities. The tenants call him if they have problems, ''but they might let me know if there's something I can push for,'' she said.
 At the end of the month, Ms. Kerlen is left with a little over $100.
 Other super-tenants help the landlord by being the first person in the line of defense. 
 Robert Guerrero, a counselor at the Department of Veterans Affairs, takes care of the trash and some basic repairs in the eight-unit building in East Harlem where he lives with his wife and 15-year-old daughter.
 A big part of his role is fielding complaints, and he calls the landlord only if there's a serious problem.
 ''It's not fun,'' Mr. Guerrero said of his duties. ''It's the financial break, that's what I love about it.'' He receives a $330 discount off his rent, which brings his stabilized three-bedroom railroad apartment down to $831 per month. ''The little extra break does help me though, I tell you.'' 
 His brother-in-law, Pedro Pedraza, owned the building for many years. When he sold it a few years ago, Mr. Guerrero moved in and took over the chores. The arrangement was particularly logical because Mr. Guerrero was already familiar with the tenants and with the neighborhood. 
 ''I feel like sometimes I'm the father of the building. Everybody knows me, everybody knows my family and everybody cares for me,'' he said. ''And I care for everybody here, too.''
 Super-tenant Janio Marrero, on the other hand, often plays the role of grandson in his building. 
 Mr. Marrero, 27, is the facilities and operations manager at the Cherry Lane Theater in the West Village. He is also a comedian and a carpenter, as well as a tenant and part-time super of the apartments upstairs.
 Most of his neighbors are elderly and have been living in the building for decades.
 ''Part of the reason to have a strapping young man living on the premises was to help the elders,'' said Angelina Fiordellisi, the artistic director of the Cherry Lane Theater, and the owner of the building since 1996. ''But having Janio is a protection, not only for the tenants but also for the building itself.'' 
 In exchange for taking care of the building's seven apartments, Mr. Marrero pays only $750 for his spacious one-bedroom. Many of the other tenants, because of their long tenures, pay comically low rents. ''They're very grateful and they know the deal they're getting,'' Mr. Marrero said of the other tenants. ''They always hesitate to ask, so when they do, I know they need it.'' 
 Mr. Marrero has been living and working in the building for about five years. The superintendent comes by once a week to deal with the trash and major repairs.
 But since Mr. Marrero works right downstairs, he handles many of the day-to-day issues -- he'll even accept packages for other tenants. 
 ''They put things under my name,'' he said. ''I'll open a package thinking someone's sent me a present and it's for a neighbor.'' 
 Occasional confusion aside, he enjoys his neighbors a lot. ''They're great,'' he said. ''They're like my grandparents.'' 
 Dan Brady, an actor and real estate broker with Corcoran, takes care of a 16-unit building in Bedford-Stuyvesant that is owned by a friend. 
 ''My duties are not like a normal super -- I'm not talented enough,'' Mr. Brady said. ''I have no plumbing or electrical skills. I keep the place clean, take care of the garbage.''
 That said, the building keeps him busy. When the owner moved out of thecountry, Mr. Brady picked up management duties, like keeping an eye on the building's finances, registering the rent for the subsidized units, and handling the occasional trash-infraction ticket from the Sanitation Department or the odd landlord-tenant dispute. He also deals with the city, which helps some of the tenants pay rent -- navigating that bureaucracy is the most frustrating part of the job, he says.
 In exchange, he receives $600 per month, half the rent for his $1,200 two-bedroom on the second floor. 
 ''Sometimes the phone rings constantly with a little of this, a little of that; you're basically taking care of people,'' Mr. Brady said. ''And you're taking care of people who see you as the landlord. So if they've had a bad experience with a landlord in the past, they're not going to trust you.'' 
 Between tending to the building and working as a real estate broker, Mr. Brady is on call pretty much all the time. But as an actor living in New York -- Mr. Brady recently appeared as DC in an off-Broadway production of ''Fubar'' -- his living arrangement makes financial sense. 
 ''I love doing theater,'' he said. ''But I wish it paid better.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHO YA GONNA CALL?: Sonja Kerlen is paid a small stipend to be the landlord's ''point person'' in her Harlem building. Margaret Smith, below, of Park Slope, and Janio Marrero of the West Village receive rent reductions in exchange for doing chores and in his case, small repairs. Mr. Marrero, doormanlike, also accepts packages.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE)
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW)(pg. RE1)
CHORE TIME: Clockwise from top: Dan Brady is his landlord's jack-of-alltrades. Janio Marrero's carpentry skills come in handy in his building. Sonja Kerlen with James Johnson, to whom she subcontracts some of the duties she has taken on in her building. Margaret Smith is her landlord's ''eyes and ears.''(TOP THREE PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (BOTTOM, PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RODENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



336 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets Regain Footing

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
ONE of the more startling developments of recent months has been the near-vertical recovery of emerging stock markets. Despite the collapse of those markets late last year, investors' sentiment toward them has quickly switched from hate to love, with nothing in between.
 Emerging markets have soared above almost all others this year, especially in the second quarter, even as those other markets were swiftly gaining altitude themselves. The outperformance carried a broad-based MSCI Barra index of shares in the developing world close to record highs, relative to the firm's broadest index of stocks in mature economies, after touching a three-year comparative low last fall. 
The rally provided an opportunity for shareholders in emerging-market funds to dig out of a very deep hole. The average portfolio specializing in them rose 35.1 percent in the second quarter, after falling 54.4 percent in 2008 and an additional 1.7 percent in the first quarter this year.
 Corresponding second-quarter returns were 17.5 percent for domestic stock funds; 27 percent for funds investing in Europe and 27.8 percent for Asia funds.
 You might think that after such stunning outperformance, investment advisers who comparison-shop would lighten up on emerging markets and spread the cash around mature markets. But they haven't; the consensus seems to be that emerging markets remain the better bet, although it may be prudent not to place it just yet.
 Investors trying to fathom the enormous run-up in emerging markets should have their minds on something else, as one portfolio manager sees it.
 ''The question to ask is: Why did they fall last year?'' said Giles Conway-Gordon, co-chief investment officer at Cogo Wolf Asset Management in San Francisco. ''That was the exceptional event, and now we're seeing a return to normality in emerging markets.''
 Many developing economies are enduring the global recession and financial crisis in relatively solid shape, and their stock markets suffered more than others through little fault of their own, international fund managers say. One factor was a sudden scarcity of credit that forced many Western investors to sell assets to raise cash.
 ''You had to sell what you owned, and that's what everybody owned,'' said John Maxwell, manager of the Ivy International Core fund.
 One reason markets like those of India, China and Brazil were so popular until the bear market is that sound government policy had become commonplace in the developing world. Officials ''have learned from past mistakes,'' said Kirk Brown, who runs foreign portfolios in the American Beacon fund family. ''Many of these markets are running surpluses, and inflation is under control.'' 
 By contrast, fiscal and trade surpluses and other signs of sound economic management are hard to spot in many mature countries. 
 ''We think there are serious question marks'' about the long-term prospects of developed economies, Mr. Conway-Gordon said. ''Growth is going to be uninspiring. Japan is a country in decline. Europe has not faced facts about its financial system and is overbureaucratized.''
 Mr. Maxwell cited some uninspiring details of his own. Industrial production in Germany and Japan is running at 60 percent to 80 percent of prerecession levels, declines ''that would have been unfathomable in the past'' and are well below previous troughs, he said.
 Stock markets in mature countries have risen in the hope that their economies will stabilize, but he contends that the weakness is so severe that stability won't do.
 ''Things can't stay that way without skyrocketing unemployment,'' Mr. Maxwell said. ''Stabilization isn't good enough at this level. They have to see improvement, not a plateauing.''
 The ability to conduct business unfettered by the lingering effects of financial and economic imbalances should help emerging markets recover faster and keep a competitive edge, said Jason Hsu, chief investment officer at Research Affiliates, an asset management firm in Pasadena, Calif.
 ''Economies that won't have to deleverage will consume more and employ more capital,'' Mr. Hsu said. ''That's a definite positive. Those economies are going to be in positions of relative strength, and you're going to see investment flow reacting to that.''
 But doesn't the rally mean that the reaction has already occurred? It's possible that the choices open to international investors have been greatly curtailed -- and that the low-hanging fruit, as well as a lot of the produce much higher up, has already been picked in emerging markets.
 ''When you see a great run like you've seen in emerging markets, you've got to ask whether you want to keep riding the ride,'' Mr. Maxwell said. ''You've got to be sure you're going to come out of this in good shape'' before buying at these levels, he advised. ''I'm not 100 percent ready to bet on that at this point.''
 The growth prospects he perceives for mature international economies, as well as the less dramatic yet sizeable rally they have already experienced, mean that they may not offer much of an alternative.
 One approach that Mr. Maxwell favors is buying companies in mature countries that do a lot of business in developing ones, like Nestle, the Swiss food producer; Total, the French oil company; and Nissin Kogyo, a Japanese company that makes car parts.
 Others find emerging-market stocks tempting, if pricey. Mr. Brown at American Beacon acknowledges that valuations appear somewhat stretched, but says he expects higher long-term earnings growth to remedy the condition. His largest holdings lately have included PetroChina, HDFC Bank in India and Itau Unibanco Holding, a Brazilian bank.
 HARRY HARTFORD, president of Causeway Capital Management in Los Angeles, likewise foresees stronger earnings growth, although he would not be surprised by a pullback in the short run.
 ''I would argue that if you have anything other than a three-month investment horizon, you need to have emerging markets in your portfolio,'' Mr. Hartford said. ''It's naive to think that a number of these markets will not continue to do well and that companies don't have the wherewithal to continue growing.''
 Mr. Hsu expressed similar sentiments. ''After they've gone up this far, we're more than likely to see a larger correction,'' he said. ''But it's hard not to argue that over a longer horizon they offer more opportunity and fewer problems to deal with.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at a PetroChina refinery in Suining, in Sichuan Province. The company has been tempting to investors who are interested in emerging markets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
Itau Unibanco, in Brazil, left, and HDFC, an Indian banking company, attract investor interest beyond their borders.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCELO SAYAO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABHIJIT BHATLEKAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: BARRA INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); SICHUAN, CHINA (51%) CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



337 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: The Air Up There

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER. 
Jennifer Schuessler is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
THE TALL BOOK
 A Celebration of Life From on High
 By Arianne Cohen
 Illustrated. 243 pp. Bloomsbury. $20
 Ever since homo sapiens began walking upright, we've been hearing about the terrible dilemmas facing short men. Elevator shoes or growth hormones? Napoleon or Randy Newman?
 But so far, much less has been said about the plight of tall women. They are less likely to marry and have children. They are reduced to wearing men's trousers and ugly shoes. They are constantly asked if they play basketball or work as dominatrixes. They have to fend off the advances of fetishists who arrive on dates bearing roses and step stools. (Seriously.) 
 And then there are those annoying non-tall women. In ''The Tall Book,'' Arianne Cohen, 6-foot-3, describes her rage at seeing a petite contributor to the Book Review enter a New York bar with a skyscraping man. ''My blood pressure spiked,'' she writes. ''I pretended that it didn't bother me, but my inner monologue was shrieking . . . Poacher!!!''
 Hey, it wasn't me. I am almost 5-foot-11 (and terrible at basketball). But then, as Cohen's spunky report on the weather up there reveals, I'm not really that tall.
 ''Talls,'' as Cohen refers to her tribe, are the S.U.V.'s of humanity. They eat more food and are given more personal space (one or two extra feet, similar to what people give their bosses). They have higher I.Q.'s, longer lives and bigger salaries, earning about $789 more per inch per year. They trounce shorter people in presidential elections and other popularity contests. The advantages are so overwhelming that two economists once wrote a tongue-in-cheek paper proposing a special ''tall tax'' to level the playing field. Naturally, Cohen finds this idea deeply unfair.
 Cohen may be a libertarian on tall taxes, but when it comes to airplane seats she's a socialist all the way. She writes sympathetically about an antidiscrimination lawsuit filed by the Tall Club of Silicon Valley demanding that anyone who self-identifies as 6-foot-2 or taller -- in other words, roughly half the male population of online dating sites -- be allowed roomier seats on airplanes. And she endorses the ''universal design'' movement, which holds that buses, trains, furniture and buildings should be comfortable for people of all sizes. (You try checking out your super-tall self in a low-hung bathroom mirror, or hoisting yourself up off a 14-inch toilet.)
 Curiously, the Netherlands -- the country with the greatest average height and the strongest commitment to universal design -- is also one of the places where future tall girls are most likely to pursue medical treatment to suppress growth. Cohen cites research showing that nearly half of women who get treatment later regret it, while those who decide, as she did, to grow as ''tall and gorgeous'' as nature intended are ''nearly universally'' happy. She does quote a German woman who is grateful to have been stopped seven inches short of a projected 6-foot-10, and she describes a mournful visit to Sandy Allen, America's tallest woman, at 7 feet 7.25 inches, who once worked for Guinness World Records and played an arm-wrestler in a Fellini movie, but at the end of her life was confined to her room because of complications stemming from an overactive pituitary gland. For Cohen, however, no tall is too tall, as long as you are otherwise healthy.
 In a chapter on tall sex, Cohen -- who confesses her own reluctance to ''date down'' and once snagged a 7-foot-2 boyfriend at a pan-European tall convention -- offers advice to women who have sprouted past the apparent ideal of being 8 percent shorter than their partner. (Eight percent is the average height disparity between men and women, and also, it turns out, the downward angle at which most models are photographed.) She suggests dating older men, or men from more ''liberal'' backgrounds, which apparently correlates with openness to taller partners.
 Or you could just move to southern Sudan. Among the Dinka and Nuer people, women over six feet fetch 80 to 100 cows on the marriage market, while shorter women bring only 50 or 70. Why?
 ''They bring tall children,'' one man explains. Plus, in a nation short on step stools, they can ''reach things.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TODD ST. JOHN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITIGATION (77%); MARRIAGE (71%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%); NETHERLANDS (50%)

TITLE: Tall Book, The (Book); Tall Book, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



338 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Laura Beech, Paul McClung

 BODY:
Laura Emerson Beech, the daughter of Linda Ward Beech of New York and Raymond J. Beech of Washington Depot, Conn., was married Saturday afternoon to Paul Cohn McClung, a son of Rabbi Helen T. Cohn of Tucson and the late Nelson D. McClung. The bridegroom's mother officiated at the weekend home of the bride's mother and stepfather, Thomas G. Schueller, in Sharon, Conn. 
 Mrs. McClung, 34, is a marketing director in the consumer card services group of American Express in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from Brown and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Her father is the founder and president of Beech Associates, a design and contracting firm in New York. Her mother works in New York as a freelance writer and an author of grade-school textbooks. The bride is also the stepdaughter of Roberta Beech. 
 Mr. McClung, 35, is a corporate vice president, handling regulatory supervision, at the New York Life Insurance Company in New York. He graduated from the University of California, Santa Cruz. His first marriage ended in divorce.
 His mother leads Congregation M'kor Hayim, a Reform congregation in Tucson. His father was an economist at the Treasury Department in Washington. The bridegroom is a stepson of Dennis Dawson.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); STEPPARENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); TEXTBOOKS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (69%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



339 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Ellen Marrocco, Christopher Scovotti

 BODY:
Ellen Laura Marrocco and Christopher Anthony Scovotti were married Saturday at the Church of Our Lady of the Rosary in Manhattan. The Rev. Peter K. Meehan, a Roman Catholic priest and the church's pastor, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 29, and bridegroom, 30, graduated from Georgetown, she magna cum laude and he cum laude.
 Mrs. Scovotti is an actuarial analyst in Manhattan with a division of the Liberty Mutual Group, where she specializes in commercial accounts. She received a master's degree in economics from New York University.
 She is the daughter of Frances E. Marrocco and Victor G. Marrocco of St. Clair Shores, Mich. Her father is a lawyer at Kienbaum Opperwall Hardy & Pelton, in Detroit, specializing in employment mediation and arbitration. He retired as the team leader of the employment and labor litigation group at Ford Motor Company's office of the general counsel in Dearborn, Mich. Her mother retired as a teacher and the head of the mathematics department of Bishop Gallagher High School in Harper Woods, Mich.
 Mr. Scovotti is an investment analyst and one of the founders at Valinor Management, a hedge fund in Manhattan. He received an M.B.A from Harvard. 
 He is a son of Linda A. Scovotti and Christopher O. Scovotti of Eastchester, N.Y. His mother is the pediatric nurse at the Anne Hutchinson School in Eastchester. His father is the president of an insurance and real estate brokerage firm bearing the family's name in the Bronx.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE CABREZA/SARAH MERIANS PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (74%); LITIGATION (74%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%); NURSES & NURSING (51%)

COMPANY: LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (83%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); KIENBAUM OPPERWALL HARDY & PELTON PLC (70%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (70%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



340 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Malls See Plenty of Action, but Less of It Is Shopping

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Despite the recession, James Morrell is at the mall four or five times a week.
 That might sound like good news for retailers, but Mr. Morrell does not walk out with shopping bags. 
 He walks out with a sweat. 
 ''Four laps,'' he said as he jogged right past Dick's Sporting Goods on a recent morning at Roosevelt Field on Long Island, ''which I think is about two miles.''
 For more than a decade, malls have donned the trappings of community centers. Mall owners installed free or low-cost amenities like jogging routes, restaurants, movie theaters and merry-go-rounds to lure consumers and keep them shopping longer.
 But now, in a recession that has consumers sitting on their wallets, those ancillary attractions suddenly seem more popular than the stores. The sideshow is now the big top. 
 ''The consumer's not avoiding the mall,'' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst for the NPD Group, a retailing consultancy. ''The consumer's just avoiding spending the money.''
 Indeed, sales at mall stores have declined, in many cases by double digits, and mall vacancies are at their highest point in almost a decade, according to Reis, a research company. The vacancy rate at the end of 2008 was 7.1 percent, compared with 5.8 percent in 2007. 
 In New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, the first-quarter vacancy rate at malls was 6.4 percent -- somewhat better than the national rate of 7.9 percent, according to Reis. But the decline from the last quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2009 was worse in the local region than nationally, and the 6.4 percent vacancy rate was the area's highest ever. 
 But those bleak numbers have not translated into empty food courts, play areas or thoroughfares. For example, at both Children's Place and Limited Brands (which owns Victoria's Secret and Bath and Body Works), sales declined 12 percent from June 2008 to June 2009. But most analysts would say that mall traffic has fallen several percentage points less than that -- with the difference explained by mall visitors like Mr. Morrell. 
 ''Parents still need to entertain their kids,'' explained Mr. Cohen, who could not find a parking spot on a recent Saturday night at the Smith Haven Mall in Lake Grove, on Long Island. ''Teenagers still need a place to hang out. Adults still need a place to walk, out of the elements. Workers still need to buy their coffee.''
 Adding to the malls' appeal is that standard activities and events (like walking clubs and book signings) have in recent years been supplemented by more novel ones. Mall owners in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, like their counterparts across the country, have installed wave-riding machines and offer laser tag, paintball and ice skating. They have organized concerts and karaoke contests, temporary-tattoo parties and social clubs for children, and they have begun turning vast -- and empty -- stores into community theaters and health clinics.
 John D. Morris, a retailing analyst with BMO Capital Markets who, like Mr. Cohen, regularly visits malls to gather data, said that heat waves in the Northeast typically drive consumers to malls for the air-conditioning. ''That has not happened this year,'' he said, referring to the heavy rains of June, ''and yet you are still seeing a lot of people flocking to the mall.'' 
 There are many children in those crowds. At 9:30 most mornings at Roosevelt Field, nursery rhymes echo as an instructor leads about 20 stroller-pushing mothers on a brisk wall through the mall, stopping every so often to perform strength-building exercises and sing to their children. Sometimes they sing ''Old MacDonald Had a Farm'' while doing jumping jacks. Other times it's ''The Wheels on the Bus'' as they do bicep curls.
 ''It's not a requirement to have a good voice,'' explained Marisa Mitnick of Plainview, a member of the conspicuous exercise-and-socialize group, which is known as Stroller Strides. 
 The gathering lasts for an hour, but ''we end up hanging out at the mall for hours afterwards,'' said Ms. Mitnick, a researcher at a medical practice. 
 Doesn't all this nonshopping irk mall operators? After all, what landlord can afford to have consumers singing and sashaying through a mall without buying even a pair of socks? 
 But as it turns out, landlords can't afford not to encourage such programs. The robustness of customer traffic is one factor retailers consider when deciding which malls to open stores in and which malls to leave. And even if mall-goers just browse, said Mr. Morris, a crowd-drawing amenity allows retailers to show off their goods and perhaps make a sale later. 
 ''I think in this economy we're seeing a lot more of an open dialogue with the retailers than we had in the past,'' said Adele Arkin, who runs several Stroller Strides groups on Long Island. 
 Previously, Ms. Arkin said, she would ask retailers if they were willing to staff private shopping events for Stroller Strides members; the answer was typically no. ''Now it's, 'We'll definitely have people, it's not a question' and, 'We'll definitely offer a discount,' '' Ms. Arkin said. 
 Mall events and amenities seem to be getting more important, not less.
 In April, the Simon Property Group, a large mall owner and developer, announced that it would offer more than 11,000 events for shoppers this year at its malls. That month, Roosevelt Field joined the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, to create a walking club in the mall, and Hot Topic, a teenage apparel and music chain, is organizing free concerts at malls around the country throughout the summer. 
 Mr. Cohen of the NPD Group said that with all these additions, especially such big long-term projects like the installation of day-care centers and professional schools, ''the mall could even become more important rather than less important.''
 Whatever the future holds for the mall, the fact is that nowadays, for every couple of people shopping, there are a couple of people just killing time.
 ''I usually win,'' said B. William Fuca, a retired police officer, as he played gin rummy with his son, Vincent, one afternoon at a fairly secluded table in the Roosevelt Field mall food court. At his elbow: a notebook to keep score.
 ''We're waiting for our wives,'' he said as he dealt another hand. ''They could be here all day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LOCAL IDOL: Erika Fahy draws an audience at a singing contest at Rockaway Townsquare in Rockaway, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MB8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WALKING & JOGGING (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WATER SPORTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CHILDREN (67%)

COMPANY: DICK'S SPORTING GOODS INC (58%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (52%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (52%)

TICKER: DKS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (58%); SIC5091 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (58%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



341 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: In Michigan, Deficits Defy Years of Cutting

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich. 

 BODY:
Long before California resorted to i.o.u.'s to pay state bills, and before New York's political insurrection made a mess of this year's budget planning, and even before the recession pushed dozens of other states into their worst fiscal distress in decades, lawmakers here were cutting. 
 The cuts started in the 2002 budget year, when some prisoners were ordered to sleep two to a cell. Then came cuts to state colleges in 2003, and orchestras, zoos and operas in 2004. Medical payments for the poor were cut in 2005, followed by cuts to a youth prison in 2006. After that? More cuts -- to prisons, crime laboratories, libraries and day care programs.
 Last month, 100 state troopers were laid off, and the troopers left behind were told to drive around less to, of course, cut costs. 
 In all, even before thinking about the coming year's $1.8 billion shortfall, Michigan's lawmakers had -- through cuts, accounting shifts and tax increases -- closed more than $7 billion in budget gaps over the past eight years. While many states have experienced a year of pain or perhaps two during this downturn, Michigan is approaching nearly a decade of budget misery.
 ''The big difference here,'' said Robert L. Emerson, the state budget director, ''is that we have very little to fall back on. Michigan has already done a lot of the things that other states are only thinking about doing now. Every reserve fund in the state government has been drained long ago. Our rainy-day fund? There's $2 million in there. That won't last you 30 seconds.''
 Just to cope with the most recent slipping revenue projections, Michigan is preparing to close eight prisons or prison camps (and despite the political risks, release some inmates as soon as they are eligible for release), as well as drop state support for dental and podiatric care, glasses and hearing aids for poor adults. State grants for doctors who agree to live in rural, underserved places and counseling for teenage parents will likely end, too.
 On the revenue side, all sorts of notions have been entertained -- Michigan, the new Hollywood? Michigan, the wind turbine state? -- even an idea offered in a closed meeting this year by John Engler, the former governor, that Michigan ponder housing detainees from the prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, raising perhaps $1 billion. (Mr. Engler, through a spokesman, declined to discuss the matter.)
 Most people tie the state's lasting fiscal woes to the collapsing auto industry, and by some measures, Michigan seems to be marching backward. While much of the country emerged from a downturn that started in 2001, Michigan never really seemed to do the same.
 The state has cut 10,000 employees since 2000, leaving it with a staff comparable to the early 1970s. Annual general fund revenues, when adjusted for inflation, have shrunk in all but one of the last nine years. They are expected to be $6.9 billion next year, a level last seen in 1991 (and with the inflation adjustment, more like the 1960s).
 Announcements of ever-shrinking revenue estimates have grown so common that some lawmakers complain they have little time to cope with anything else. 
 ''Michigan led the nation's recession, and we continued to live a lifestyle we couldn't afford,'' said Michael D. Bishop, the Republican majority leader in the State Senate, where his party has sparred with Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm and her fellow Democrats over money and especially tax increases. ''It has all come crashing down.''
 On paper, the state's overall spending has remained fairly steady and even increased at times this decade, but budget officials say those figures reflect necessary spending increases for Medicaid and corrections. 
 And while Michigan's expected $1.8 billion gap next year hardly compares with California's $26 billion puzzle, the new cuts here come as lawmakers say they are already well past finding any budget fat and will have to cut to the bone. What is needed, in the words of one lobbyist, is more of a bone-marrow transplant.
 ''You've already done all your good ideas -- in '03 and '04 and '05,'' said Janet Olszewski, director of the Michigan Department of Community Health, which, among other cuts, expects to stop financing a program that helped doctors pay back student loans if they moved to towns desperately in need of doctors. 
 The problems have trickled down to cities across the state because of cuts in state revenue sharing of more than $3 billion over eight years, according to the Michigan Municipal League. Those cuts cost some 2,000 local police officers and 2,400 local firefighters their jobs.
 ''It just keeps going down and down and down,'' Charles M. Brunner, the mayor of Bay City, said of the state's revenue sharing with his city, ''and we've done nothing but cut, cut, cut.'' He said the city expected $4.8 million from the state next year, down from the $6.4 million it got in 2001. 
 In Brighton, leaders say they are all but shutting down their community center, requiring employees to take one furlough day a month for the next two years and suspending street sweeping. Dana W. Foster, the city manager, said his city could not withstand any more cuts. ''The streets right now are looking terrible,'' he said. 
 The proposed prison closings have left the fewer than 2,000 residents of Standish, home for 19 years to a maximum-security prison that may now close, wondering about their future. Hundreds of people from the area work at the prison, and local residents have held rallies and candlelight vigils and have picketed in recent days. ''For a small community like this, there's just no chance of making up for this,'' said the Rev. James M. Fitzpatrick, a local priest.
 For the moment, Michigan does have one thing going for it -- time. 
 Unlike California and other states still scrambling to solve budget gaps even as their budget year began July 1, Michigan's budget year begins in October. There is still time to shed the $1.8 billion shortfall, and federal stimulus money is likely to help -- although, critics are quick to note, only for the time being.
 In one small clue to the breadth of the problem here, Mr. Emerson, the budget director, unhappily finds himself recommending that the state stop paying for a before- and after-school program he sponsored as a legislator more than a decade ago.
 Searching for more ideas, Mr. Emerson has assigned a staff member to look for lessons from the past: What were the essential items Michigan could not live without back in 1991, when it last had so few dollars coming in? He is still awaiting the results. 
 Meanwhile, some outlines of what Michigan may look like in 2011 are emerging, including what Mr. Emerson called another ''billion-dollar-plus'' deficit. 
 ''The problem,'' he said, ''is our tomorrow looks no different than today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michigan state troopers voted last month on whether to accept furlough days or have 100 troopers laid off. They chose layoffs.
Union officials and state troopers counting ballots. The vote was part of the state's effort at closing a $1.8 billion budget gap. Michigan has cut spending every year since 2002 -- including on prisons, colleges and libraries -- but billion-dollar deficits persist.(pg. A14)
 Brighton, Mich., has all but closed its community center and has suspended street sweeping.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) CHART: A Decade of Shrinking Revenue: Michigan's budget woes began even before the collapse of the automobile industry and the current recession. With general fund revenue continuing to decline, lawmakers have been forced to solve budget deficits every year since 2001.(Source: Michigan Department of Treasury)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); PRISONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); PODIATRY (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); FORENSICS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (61%); HEARING AIDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



342 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Lighting Up Tough Parks' Darkness

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Harvard Park has been a no-man's land after dark for decades. It's location, at the borders of rival gang turf, has made it more a demilitarized zone than public space since the inception of this city's oldest and most entrenched street gangs. So there was a giddy excitement among the thousand or so South Los Angeles neighbors who came last week to celebrate the park's inclusion in Summer Night Lights, a program designed to combat gang violence by keeping lights on until midnight in some of the city's roughest parks. 
 One neighbor, Dorothy Poindexter-Bowen, 60, stood in the park on Wednesday amid the sounds of a new life after dark: laughter, the clatter of skateboards and booming bass from nearby speakers. 
 ''I'm taking it in,'' Ms. Poindexter-Bowen said. ''I'm thinking how nice it feels to be safe in the park at night.''
 The program began in a modest incarnation last year, when antigang outreach workers raised almost $1 million in private donations to illuminate eight parks. The lights spread to 16 locations on Wednesday, including Harvard. Even amid dire financial straits, city officials have pledged to match $1.4 million dollars in private donations to finance the lights, along with sports leagues, disc jockeys and food four nights a week in the parks through August. 
 ''These neighborhoods with gang problems don't have a lot of assets,'' said the Rev. Jeff Carr, who leads the program. ''But there is a school, a park and a rec center. Those are public assets. Let's use those to create social connections that replace gangs.''
 In 2008, neighborhoods bordering the eight parks involved saw 86 percent fewer homicides and a 17 percent drop in gang-related violence, according to police crime statistics. Some parks had no homicides for the first summer in years. 
 The spillover of a national recession and bloated state budget deficit in 2009 means the program must contend with thinner local safety nets, said Mr. Carr, who directs Gang Reduction and Youth Development for Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa. Cutbacks by the Los Angeles Unified School District erased most summer school and other nonacademic programs this year, leaving many young people at loose ends. 
 On Thursday in Boyle Heights, a working-class area east of downtown, Ramon Garcia park was filled with families and clusters of young men and women. The rush of cars from two freeways mixed with the crack of softball bats and music. Groups of young men wearing the same large white T-shirts and long shorts sat on a grassy slope to watch the game. A teenage girl shared a sideways glance with a boy eating hot dogs next to his parents on the lawn. 
 ''People were just waiting for it this summer,'' said Miguel Leon, 27, a gang intervention worker. ''Last year it took a while to ramp up; now this place is packed.''
 Mr. Leon grew up near the park and oversees 10 teenage boys and girls from the neighborhood hired and trained with federal stimulus money to oversee activities at Ramon Garcia this summer. Most are at risk of falling in with gangs, he said. 
 Gang members are not barred from the parks, Mr. Carr said, and Mr. Leon said some were playing softball on the field that night. Police officers and gang intervention workers will be present in all 16 parks during the eight-week season.
 ''We're telling them they're welcome as long as they don't cause problems,'' he said. ''You can rewrite the narrative of your life and your neighborhood. A gang affiliation is not your whole identity. You're also a part of this community.''
 ''We just said, Stop shooting,'' Mr. Carr added. ''If you give people a safe pass to and from the park this summer, you're welcome. You're part of this community too, not an appendage.''
 That marks a new approach by officials trying to curb gangs in Los Angeles, which has the most gang violence in California, a state with more gangs in its cities and towns than any other, said Paul Seave, director of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's Office of Gang and Youth Violence Policy. Even with falling crime rates this year, he said, gang killings still make up almost half of all homicides in Los Angeles. About 30 percent of murders statewide are tied to gangs, he said.
 ''Until about five years ago, the approach to gang violence in California was largely a law enforcement one,'' Mr. Seave said. ''But there has been a sea change in the way everyone, particularly law enforcement, thinks. We cannot arrest our way out of this problem.'' 
 Seemingly small steps like filling parks with people can change the behavior that feeds crime patterns, said Marcos Andrade, 18. Mr. Andrade carried his 9-month-old nephew, Maximum, on his shoulders in Ramon Garcia park Thursday. 
 ''I used to stay away and stay at home at night,'' he said. ''But I'm really not an indoor type. Now we can be here and have support.'' Maybe Maximum, he said, ''could grow up more free.''
 Laura Lomeli, 24, waiting in line for popcorn nearby, agreed. ''It's not just for the kids; parents come and get to know each other,'' she said. ''We start to know who lives next door.''
 After the softball game ended, two women pushed strollers across the empty field under bright lights. A toddler ran ahead into the shadows. Juan Duran, 13, and Joey Martinez, 16, stood near small skateboard ramps on an outdoor stretch of asphalt. 
 ''My school doesn't have summer school this year,'' Juan said. ''So it's pretty cool having this.''
 ''You meet more friends here'' than by ''having nothing better to do and getting in trouble,'' said Joey, one foot on his board. ''I always stay here until midnight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ramon Garcia park in Los Angeles is one of 16 facilities in the Summer Night Lights program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (91%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FAMILY (74%); BUDGETS (71%); SOFTBALL (70%); HOMICIDE (67%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); CRIME STATISTICS (62%); STATISTICS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



343 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Love and Marriage, New York Times Style

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT. 
The public editor can be reached by e-mail: public@nytimes.com

 BODY:
JENNIFER KEEN and Paul Sousa -- the bride's name is always first -- could not have been more different from the other couples on the June 28 weddings and celebrations pages of The Times. The others included a direct descendant of Peter Stuyvesant; a former California congresswoman just confirmed as an under secretary of state; former Vice President Dick Cheney's social secretary; and the son of a retired Harlem nightclub owner.
 Sousa, 41, grew up homeless, was hooked on heroin by 15, and was in and out of prison for the next 24 years. Keen, 26, came from a stable household but said she was sexually abused by a relative and by 16 was addicted to methamphetamines, marijuana and alcohol. They met outside a Narcotics Anonymous meeting in Sacramento.
 Their story of love and redemption -- each is drug free and studying for a career -- was told in Vows, the regular Sunday column that customarily features high achievers from more traditional walks of life. 
 A few readers did not like the change of pace. ''Are we telling young adults it is alright to waste half their lives in a drug stupor and somehow it will magically work out?'' wrote Richard S. Emrich of Plymouth, Mich. I heard from other readers who said they regarded the weddings pages as a place for upstanding people with good educations who come from good families. Sousa and Keen, they said, did not belong.
 But, as I did, more readers found this love story inspiring. ''I would like to see more stories about couples who lack pedigrees, academic degrees and hyphenated last names,'' wrote Susan Lulic Enholm of Tucson. ''Blessings on Jennifer and Paul. They made my day.''
 In a sense, the weddings and celebrations pages of The Times have always been a battleground. They are studied as sociological raw material reflecting the rise of new elites and the decline of old, the increasing diversity of the country, and the changing roles of women. 
 They are parodied online and in a new book, ''Weddings of The Times.'' They are featured in New Yorker cartoons (bridesmaid to downcast bride: ''So what if he's not the man of your dreams. The Times is going to be there.'') and dismissed as ''wedding porn'' by people who find them an irresistible guilty pleasure.
 Deep in a 2002 essay calling for the abolition of the weddings pages as anachronisms serving ''a very small aristocracy,'' the writer Timothy Noah of Slate confessed that he had pulled strings in 1990 to get his own wedding written up.
 Through it all, some 200 couples a week submit announcements of weddings or commitment ceremonies, competing for no more than 40 or so spots in each Sunday's Styles section and one video on the paper's Web site. 
 They must comply with three pages of rules and submit to rigorous fact-checking. Everyone involved in a wedding, including the person performing the ceremony, is interviewed, and some are asked for documentary proof of things like degrees and honors. Robert Woletz, the editor in charge, said it is amazing how little some people know about their family members, like a father's current job.
 The rules are necessary, though imperfect. They were written in 2001, a year before The Times began publishing same-sex ceremonies, and they are going to be changed to avoid the kind of thing that happened to Debbie Grossman and Cara Jeiven of Brooklyn. The two were told that their announcement would run on June 14, the day 125 guests gathered in Wallkill, N.Y., for a ceremony presided over by the rabbi who performed Grossman's bat mitzvah. But in the course of fact-checking, The Times learned that Grossman and Jeiven had been married two weeks earlier in New Haven, Conn. The rules say the paper reports ceremonies only from the previous six days or the Sunday of publication. The clock starts from ''the date of the formal event.''
 Because New York does not allow same-sex marriage, Grossman said she and Jeiven regarded the big celebration with family and friends as the formal event and the brief civil marriage in a hallway as a formality akin to a straight couple's getting a license. The Times has always interpreted any legal union as the formal event and will make that clear in new rules going up next month in connection with a new system that will allow announcements to be submitted online. 
 Woletz decides who makes it in, ''for better, for worse,'' he said. How does he choose? ''The basic premise is that we're looking for people who have achievements,'' he said. ''It doesn't matter what field these achievements are in.''
 What about Keen and Sousa? They turned their lives around, Woletz said, ''which is no small feat.''
 David Brooks, before he was a Times columnist, wrote ''Bobos in Paradise,'' a best-selling account of what he called the new upper class. Part of it was based on a study of Times wedding announcements, which Brooks said had shifted over the years from an emphasis on bloodlines to education and brains.
 My assistant, Michael McElroy, took a fresh look at a sample of announcements from four different weeks over the past year and found that is still true. When bloodlines are mentioned, they tend to be from accomplishment, not old social order -- a father who was a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, another who was a top executive of ABC. Almost a quarter of the parents were educators.
 As the announcements under Woletz have become more diverse, parents like a union electrician, a retired firefighter and even a courier have popped up beside orthopedic surgeons and authors. 
 Still, the brides, grooms and same-sex partners in our sample were heavily Ivy League, 40 percent, and clustered in prestige occupations. The top three fields for men were finance, media and law. For women, it was media, education and current student. Nearly half had advanced degrees.
 The recession has taken its toll on status, even on the weddings page: ''Until January, Mrs. Steinberg, 27, was an associate selling options contracts to hedge funds at Merrill Lynch,'' one announcement noted. But Marcy Blum, a high-end New York wedding planner who counsels her clients on how to get their announcements in The Times -- don't embellish your story, get the bride's and groom's eyes on the same level in the photo -- says, ''Nobody's canceling their wedding because of the economy.''
 Certainly not Keen and Sousa, whose personal recoveries have value beyond measure. When I talked to them last week, they sounded like happy newlyweds with purpose. He said he is maintaining a 4.0 grade point average at a community college, carrying a double major and hoping to study sociology at Sacramento State.
 ''When I was a little street urchin running around, I used to steal bikes from that campus,'' he said. ''Maybe I can redeem myself.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); PARTY DRUGS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); CANNABIS (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (76%); FAMILY (74%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WOMEN (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (70%); HEROIN (70%); METHAMPHETAMINE (69%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



344 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Finding Dollars to Pay for Health Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Financing Health Care Reform'' (editorial, July 7): 
 Hurray for your willingness to tell the truth, hard as it may be for many to swallow. 
 It seems to me that Americans have been brainwashed into believing they are entitled to a free ride. We went to war while lowering taxes instead of raising them, turning a budget surplus into a huge deficit. The stimulus program increased that deficit, and the time will come when we most surely will have to raise taxes to pay it down.
 Meanwhile, we're diddling about health care reform, partly because the public refuses to acknowledge that taxes are the way we pay for the services we demand and expect. 
 I, for one, am perfectly willing to pay higher taxes so that I never again have to hear about a fellow American who has to choose between medication and food, or who is dying because he or she can't afford lifesaving treatment.
 Alexandra Hoffman New York, July 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your assertion that ''most health care economists believe that the current tax exemption for employer-provided health care should be capped or eliminated'' ignores the conclusion reached by the Congressional Budget Office last December. It warned that costs would be higher for employees of companies ''that had higher premiums because of the age or poor health of their employees'' and that workers who lived in areas with more expensive health care would be hit hard. 
 Taxing benefits is a ''blame the victims'' approach that will do nothing to reallocate health care expenditures more rationally. It's simply another example of tax code writers protecting special interests by sticking it to the little guy. 
 Congress should look at the favorable tax treatment afforded to capital gains and dividend income, which costs the government $178 billion a year. Unlike the tax treatment of health benefits, which affects a broad swath of the American public, a very narrow economically privileged slice of taxpayers benefits from this favorable treatment.
 Gerald W. McEntee International President American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Washington, July 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 To cut spending, we need a single-payer system. That would simplify administrative charges and remove obstacles to care.
 In addition, we need to set up an independent agency with the power to allocate resources to the most effective treatments, institute guidelines for palliative care when indicated and provide a road map to long-term solutions for efficiency in the delivery of health care. Finally, tort reform is needed, as the current system promotes defensive and costly medicine.
 On the revenue side, I believe that a carbon tax to be paid by all would be the best option to raise money. By decreasing greenhouse gases, we would improve our health and raise money to pay for health care.
 Carlos Alvare Montclair, N.J., July 8, 2009
 The writer is a psychiatrist.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial argues that ''truly 'game-changing' innovations ... will take years to affect costs and quality.''
 That's too pessimistic a view. A recent study by our Center for Health Reform and Modernization shows that Medicare could raise quality and save $540 billion over the next decade by wider adoption of tried and tested programs. 
 For example, better support of seniors in nursing homes could save $166 billion in avoidable hospitalizations. Reducing hospital readmissions through better discharge planning and home support could save $55 billion.
 Health reform legislation needs to provide incentives for these kinds of organizational innovations, so as to modernize Medicare and help stave off the projected insolvency of its hospital fund eight years from now.
 Simon Stevens Executive Vice President UnitedHealth Group Minneapolis, July 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 If only it were so simple. Your solutions -- to eliminate waste, raise taxes on the wealthy and institute game-changing innovations -- ignore the 800-pound gorilla in the room. A large percentage of health care dollars is consumed by a small percentage of the population who have illnesses that are preventable.
 Excessive food consumption, tobacco smoking and alcohol use, coupled with lack of daily exercise, lead to obesity, heart disease, lung disease, diabetes and many forms of cancer. The baby boomer population continues to age, and the incidence of age-related disease will continue to rise.
 The really difficult task is to make people responsible for their own health. They need to stop smoking and overeating, and to exercise on a regular basis. The cost savings would far outweigh the trillions of dollars that are projected to be spent in redesigning a health care system to treat diseases that are preventable.
 Edward J. Donahue Phoenix, July 8, 2009
 The writer is a breast cancer surgeon.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial makes no reference to tort reform, which could save millions of dollars. Pain and suffering judgments should be capped. The overuse of expensive tests is caused mainly by the practice of defensive medicine.
 If you are serious about reforming the health care system, tort reform should be on the top of your list.
 Lawrence Ravich Floral Park, N.Y., July 7, 2009
 The writer is a urologist.
 To the Editor:
 The money to cover the $1 trillion or more cost of much-needed health care coverage for tens of millions of uninsured Americans need not come solely from savings or revenues from within the existing health care system.
 Congress has already passed legislation that spends many trillions of taxpayers' dollars for two aimless wars, a bailout of failing financial and auto companies, and subsidies and tax cuts for big corporations and the wealthy.
 If members of Congress cannot come up with savings or revenues from these sources to provide health care for every American, then distressed and justifiably irate voters should vote them out of office.
 Jeffrey S. Milstein Fairfax, Va., July 7, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WILLIAM MORRISEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PALLIATIVE CARE (73%); WRITERS (73%); TORT REFORM (73%); COUNTIES (71%); DEATH & DYING (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



345 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Finding A Job of His Own Dreaming

BYLINE: By JOE KROOG. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
LAST November, I was laid off from a database marketing company in Louisville, Colo., a Denver suburb, for economic reasons. Six months later, I found another position, at Kutenda, a provider of online marketing tools for small businesses, in Broomfield, Colo., also near Denver. 
 Several things about my job hunt surprised me, including its length. I thought it would only take a couple of weeks to find a new job, or at most two months. I never expected to be out of work six months. 
 Other people would probably say that six months doesn't sound bad at all, but it was to me. Even though the news media played up the job losses and how bad the economy was, I wasn't worried. I had been a technical product manager, and I thought I had good qualifications. 
 My wife, Jill, was supportive of my job hunt. She's a stay-at-home mom and entrepreneur who gives seminars to new mothers on achieving balance in their lives. She kept reassuring me that something would come along and that I shouldn't feel overwhelmed as the main provider. 
 We have two boys under the age of 6, and I wasn't financially prepared for such a long layoff. We were going through our savings, and we started discussing whether Jill should go back to work full time, or perhaps find a part-time job with benefits. We decided that she'd need a salary of at least $50,000 if we were to put the boys in day care. She took a full-time job until I was hired and now works as a marketing consultant.
 Now that I've settled into my new company, I'm of two minds about that period of unemployment. On one hand, I still think that my expectation wasn't unrealistic. I honestly felt that I stood a better chance than many other candidates. It's my competitive nature.
 On the other hand, I've talked to a number of executives in a business organization I belong to -- vice presidents, chief information officers and chief financial officers -- who were out of work much longer than I was.
 I followed the standard advice, and I think I did everything a job coach would have told me to do. I tapped into a network of colleagues and friends and told everyone I was job hunting. I got a few leads, but the job possibilities all fizzled. 
 That motivated me to try to build a bigger network, but after a while I decided that this wasn't the best approach. I was spending too much time having to explain what I did as a product manager in the software industry. The role can differ, depending on the company and the industry.
 I scoured the job boards and set up a search agent, which automatically sent job openings to me via e-mail. But nothing came of that, either. I looked for job leads on Facebook, too. Then I thought that Twitter might help. I tried following companies I had submitted a resume to, and those I had heard were hiring. The volume of messages was overwhelming, however, and most of what I read had nothing to do with job leads.
 Next, I set up a Google alert for job titles to see which companies were hiring, and I applied to them. That didn't turn up any interviews, either. I decided instead to try to learn more about the companies that were posting the jobs.
 Once, I ended up helping a company president define the position he wanted to fill. He kept mentioning the title of product manager, but I told him that the company needed someone who was concerned about future product strategy, too. I explained that in my experience, small technology companies often start with a good idea, assemble a development team, build the product and start marketing it. At the same time, they need to design a plan that considers their customers and addresses the future of the product. 
 That conversation made me do some soul-searching. I decided that I wanted to do more of what I had described to that executive. I wanted to be a product marketing manager, more customer- and market-focused than in my former product-manager position, which was an operations role and more technical.
 I visualized what I wanted this position to be like and wrote a list of bullet items about the job and my ideal company.
 I wanted to lead a team in a technology company and be responsible for a product line, and I wanted the opportunity for advancement. I also wanted to be involved in online marketing, which
 I believe is the way of the future.
 I LEARNED about Kutenda when a contact in a business marketing association said her company had a marketing position available. The role was marketing coordinator, which was too junior for me. But I had read about the company and was interested in its technology. Kutenda manages Web sites, pay-per-click advertising campaigns and e-mail campaigns. 
 I told the contact from the association that if the company needed help in determining future product features, I was good at that. She talked to the C.E.O., and I interviewed with him. 
 When the two of us sat down together, I told him my ideas, he liked what I had to say and he hired me. I had never talked myself into a role in a company before.
 I'm working on product strategy and market plans, and I'm developing ideas for new products. I feel that I'm perfectly suited for the job. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After a six-month job search -- and some soul-searching -- Joe Kroog, 36, is senior director of product management for Kutenda in Broomfield, Colo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DATABASE MARKETING (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



346 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Market Timing Seldom Works for Bonds, Either

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
WITH the government spending enormous sums on bailouts and stimulus programs and projecting vast deficits well into the future, disheartened bond investors may be wondering whether their portfolios are headed into a whirlwind of inflation.
 Returns have been fairly good recently. Most bond funds gained ground during the first half of this year, with the average taxable bond fund rising 7.6 percent in the second quarter.
But in 2008, with the prominent exception of Treasury bond funds, nearly all bond fund categories lost money, even as the Consumer Price Index scarcely budged. With that experience in mind, some experts warn that bond investors may experience more pain down the road, especially if the price index -- or the economy -- should really take off.
 ''The fixed-income market faces many challenges that include an explosion in Treasury debt issuance and a return of energy-price inflation, within three to five years,'' warned Robert L. Rodriguez, the chief executive of First Pacific Advisers, at an industry conference in late May. 
 Caution is certainly well advised for bond mutual fund investors, and a consensus of market professionals and researchers says it is unwise to try to time purchases and sales. Instead, they say, the best practice is to assemble a suitably allocated and diversified mix of low-cost investments and to add to them regularly. 
 One popular mechanism is dollar-cost averaging, applied just as easily to bonds as to stocks. This approach involves consistently buying more securities when prices are down and results over time in their average cost being lower than their average price. 
 So far the bond market has not buckled, even though rates on Treasury bonds climbed sharply in the first half of this year -- more than 1.5 points on the 10-year benchmark at its June peak -- as the premium for absolute creditworthiness and liquidity receded.
 The Federal Reserve has suggested that its large-scale purchases of Treasury bonds and mortgages may be ending, supporting the pledge of its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to avoid monetizing the debt. Yields on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, as of June 30 implied inflation of only about 1.8 percent a year over the next 10 years.
 ''There's a pretty big recession out there,'' said Kent J. Wosepka, chief investment officer and a portfolio manager at Standish Mellon Asset Management in Boston. Addressing the possibility of huge interest rate increases, he said, ''I don't think it's a foregone conclusion.''
 BECAUSE it's impossible to know the direction of future rates, various specialists suggest that you instead focus on distinguishing among the types and maturities of bonds.
 For example, Kenneth E. Volpert, head of taxable bonds and a portfolio manager at the Vanguard Group, noted that in the first half of this year, rates on corporate bonds eased even as those on Treasury bonds climbed sharply.
 Even now, ''there's actually less risk, in a sense of return, in corporates than there is in Treasuries,'' he observed. ''It's very counterintuitive.''
 Because spreads between Treasuries and other bonds are still extremely wide, this type of analysis is particularly relevant.
 A useful exercise for bond investors is to divide the current yield to maturity by duration -- a refined gauge of the time it takes for bonds to reach maturity. This tells you how much of a rate increase it would take for the resulting decline in principal to wipe out your yield over one year.
 For example, on June 30, the average yield on a five-year Treasury was 2.5 percent and the duration was 4.7 years. So if rates rose half of a percentage point in the coming year, to 3 percent, you would have a net return of virtually nothing. A similar calculation on one- to five-year corporate bonds showed that it would take 158 basis points -- more than 1.5 percentage points -- to erase any return.
 ''Once you get out beyond the intermediate area into long-term bonds,'' Mr. Volpert said, ''the duration risk offsets the yield advantage and also the potential tighter spread that could exist in the corporate market.'' (The spread is the rate margin over Treasuries.)
 For him, the bottom line is this: All maturities of the Treasury market remain ''unattractive.'' As for corporate bonds, he said: ''The short end, I think, is a good spot, intermediates are O.K. but not great -- I would call that a hold -- and if you're in the longer end I would say probably sell.'' This implies that fresh money might be similarly deployed.
 Of course, anyone who bails out has to consider what to do with the cash. Money market funds yield a scant one-half of 1 percent, on average, after deducting expenses that in many cases considerably exceed the yield.
 One alternative that even conservative investors might consider -- but only in a fund, because it's essential to diversify risk of default -- is high-yield corporate bonds. Despite the 2009 rally, they offer yields that are as much above those of Treasuries as they were in the worst of the preceding recession, in 2001.
 ''They really shot the lights out in the first half of the year, outperforming almost everything else,'' Mr. Wosepka said. ''We think there's still an opportunity to do well in high-yield.''
 Even investment-grade bond funds require scrutiny -- a lesson taught last year, when the average intermediate-term fund lost nearly 5 percent while the main benchmark, the Barclays Capital aggregate index, gained a bit over 5 percent, according to Morningstar.
 Reaching for yield, some managers lowered their standards, even including some junk issues. Anyone whose fund significantly underperformed last year should check its holdings, Mr. Volpert advised. ''You don't want them doubling up on risk,'' he said.
 As for municipal, or tax-exempt bonds, specialists agree that they no longer seem the screaming buy they were last winter. Widespread budget distress makes research essential.
 For those willing to settle for modest yields while ensuring that they won't suffer if inflation revives, TIPS are a natural choice. The ''phantom'' income generated by TIPS can be a bookkeeping chore when bought individually. But this drawback is eliminated by using funds, which periodically distribute coupon interest as well as the inflation adjustment throughout the year.
 MARY J. MILLER, head of the fixed-income division at T. Rowe Price, summed up her outlook this way: ''A healthy degree of differentiation among sectors and issuers with regard to credit risk has returned,'' but the bond market recovery may well ''pause'' after the second-quarter sprint.
 Still, experts advise those who think themselves clever enough to time moves profitably to think twice.
 ''If you're really concerned about exploding interest rates, then, yes, you would sell your bond funds and just own cash, say,'' Mr. Wosepka said. 
 ''But ask yourself, what in the bond market are people not paying attention to? If everybody knew that inflation was coming down the pike, why wouldn't they do that now? There are as many people who are willing to buy bonds at these levels as there are who are willing to sell them.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BOND FUNDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); RECESSION (77%); BEST PRACTICES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%)

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



347 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2009 AUDI Q5; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: What's Become of the Wagon?

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
THERE'S no longer any debate or any doubt: Americans hate station wagons. Deep down, they still love and want their S.U.V.'s, even if most of these are now marketed as crossovers, a politically soothing yet increasingly pointless distinction. 
 Car companies foreign and domestic have learned that the best way to stumble in this market is to design and market a station wagon, no matter how practical, sporty or affordable. (Make an exception for Subaru and its wagon fanatics.) The best way to succeed is to offer a decadent, overweight would-be S.U.V. that looks bulky and capable but is mostly used for mall reconnaissance; even a weekend trip with two parents and two children can overwhelm the cargo-carrying ability of the typical downsized, do-little luxury crossover. 
 The Dodge Magnum and Mazda 6 wagon are two recent examples of conventional wagons that critics loved and consumers rejected. (Don't hold your breath waiting for either brand to try again.) Even among import brands where you'd expect die-hard wagonistas to be lurking, crossovers threaten to snuff their more carlike siblings: Audi sold nearly 21,000 of its big Q7 crossover in 2007, compared with barely 2,800 of its sprightly A4 Avant wagon and just 758 of the larger A6 wagon. 
 Even after the economy tanked in 2008, the BMW X3 crossover outsold the hotter-performing, higher-mileage 3 Series wagon by better than 10 to 1. BMW sold just 1,553 of those wagons last year, which actually looks good against the insignificant 175 annual sales -- figure 15 a month nationwide -- for Audi's high-performance S4 wagon. Even Volvo's wagon sales were halved when it introduced its XC90 crossover.
 All this is not to pick on the new Audi Q5. Stowing my own pro-wagon prejudices, I found the Q5 the most compelling small luxury crossover I've driven.
 Compared with the 5,300-pound Q7, the 4,200-pound Q5 is far less of a walrus on wheels. At 182.2 inches long, the Audi matches the Volvo XC60 and Toyota RAV4, and it's a foot shorter than big family sedans like the Honda Accord, making it relatively useful in tight parking lots and urban maneuvers.
 The dimensions may be trimmer, yet the Q5 cuts no corners on luxury, performance or features. The owner is making a clear statement: I could have leased a Range Rover, and don't you forget it. As such, the Audi seems aimed at affluent singles, young couples and empty-nesters. Parents who haven't blown the budget on a designer stroller can apply, but two fast-growing children can quickly tax the available real estate. 
 I'd say that the cabin is straight from the Audi corporate parts bin, but in this case it's a corporate jewel box: there is rich wood, gleaming metal trim, a beautifully tactile steering wheel, comfortable seats and finely wrought gauges and switches. Like its sister cars from Ingolstadt, the Q5 effortlessly blends form and function. 
 As I admired the interior, I was struck again by how Audi has become the Apple of luxury cars: its sleek designs are modern and minimal, consistent and familiar. Yet like a Mac, the cars are functionally elegant in a way that lets owners feel they're making a purely rational choice even as they spend a bit more. 
 The Q5 is the first Audi with the latest Multi Media Interface, or M.M.I., a screen-based system that controls the function of the navigation, audio, climate and other systems. M.M.I. 3.0 has added more functionality and sharper graphics to what was already among the industry's most sophisticated controllers. Call up climate settings, and a transparent temperature readout overlays the navigation map or audio screen. In other words, you can view two layers of information, one atop the other, akin to the futuristic screens in Steven Spielberg's ''Minority Report.'' 
 Frivolous? Perhaps, but it's the kind of thing that sells luxury cars. And try this: twiddling the console-mounted M.M.I. knob -- it now functions as a joystick, too -- lets you preview the songs, programs and artists playing on every satellite radio station, without having to change the channel until a title catches your eye. That's a terrific advance: who wants to plow by trial-and-error through more than 100 satellite stations? The iPod integration is flawless, and your pet sounds are lovingly rendered by an optional Bang & Olufsen stereo with 505 watts and 14 speakers. 
 The navigation system adds 3D topography, including recognizable buildings in larger cities. It recognizes simple voice commands like ''I'm hungry'' or ''I need gas'' and calls up nearby destinations to satisfy those requests. 
 The Q5 also addresses details that elude some luxury brands. The elegant clamshell hatch -- no unsightly hatch seam dissects the taillights -- requires more precise manufacturing than a conventional liftgate. The clamshell creates not just a smoother appearance but the largest possible opening. The rear seat slides fore and aft, and a center section folds so you can carry larger items.
 The only real dismay from the interior comes from the center console's miniature bin and scant front-seat storage.
 If a family has to travel a bit light in the Audi, at least they'll travel fast. The 3.2-liter V-6, with direct fuel injection that saves fuel while adding muscle, provides 270 horsepower and 243 pound-feet of torque. This Q5 really flies, in a real-world way that's even a bit understated by the zesty 6.3-second sprint from a stop to 60 m.p.h. recorded by Car and Driver magazine. 
 Audi's 6-speed Tiptronic transmission, which the driver can shift manually with steering wheel paddle shifters or the console lever, can play smooth or help hustle things along. Along with the BMW X3 and Infiniti EX35 especially, the Audi does a reasonable imitation of a sport sedan -- just ignore the extra 600 pounds and higher altitude.
 Ride quality is a bit taut over crusty surfaces, but the payoff is handling that's nearly as confident and entertaining as even the X3's. Of course, Audi's Q ship neutralizes slippery surfaces with all-wheel-drive. A new roof-rail storage system changes the stability-control settings to account for a more top-heavy stance when the roof's cross members are locked in place.
 Audi boasts about the 4,400-pound towing capacity -- 900 pounds more than several competitors -- and the Q5 comes prewired for a trailer hitch.
 To deliver the best of both worlds -- comfort and performance -- Audi promotes its optional $2,950 Drive Select system, which lets the driver select four modes that adjust the steering, suspension, throttle and transmission. Yet as with the A4 sedan, the novelty of Drive Select wears off almost immediately; you quickly realize that the car is perfectly content in Automatic. As I noted with the A4, skipping Drive Select is an easy way to save a lot of money.
 On city streets and at parking-lot speeds, the Audi reveals one performance hiccup: the steering can feel as heavy as a 20-ounce ribeye at lunch. A lighter touch around town would accentuate the Q5's smaller size and cut-and-thrust ability. Instead, having to muscle the Q5 calls attention to its wide-body stance and still-considerable weight.
 Like some other performance-oriented crossovers, the Audi is a bit oblivious to fuel economy. The Environmental Protection Agency pegs the Q5's mileage at 18 in town and 23 on the highway; Audi says the combined 20 m.p.g. figure ties it for best in class, but that only highlights the hard-drinking company it keeps. For now, Audi isn't offering either a front-drive model or one with its 2-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder engine.
 The Q5 starts at $38,025. But stuffed like a plump oyster with rich optional toppings, my test model reached $52,950. You can certainly buy a larger crossover for less, but few of them are as fashionable or formidable as the Q5. 
 Nearly a decade ago, I was caught off guard by explosive sales of the new luxury crossovers, including the pioneering Lexus RX. This time I'm ready to admit it: nothing will stop the Q5.
 While the Audi cannot hope to match the Lexus RX's sales numbers, brace for a proliferation of Q5s on the Upper West Side of New York, in the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles and around other habitats of affluent-yet-conflicted professionals and hipsters.
 If you're determined to drive a smaller crossover, spend as much as humanly possible and still project an image of restraint, the Audi Q5 is a fine way to scale down -- and ensure that friends will never catch you in a station wagon. 
 INSIDE TRACK: Downsizing by choice, not by necessity. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (pg. AU1)
 CLASS ACT: Elegant touches include a clamshell tailgate and rich interior trim.(pg. AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CHILDREN (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (77%); SEDANS (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



348 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: FICTION: Sunday, July 12th 2009

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 27, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List			 	 	 	1		1	FINGER LICKIN&#8217; FIFTEEN, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin&#8217;s, $27.95.) The bounty hunter Stephanie Plum hunts a celebrity chef&#8217;s killer.		 	 	 	2		1	THE DOOMSDAY KEY, by James Rollins. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Sigma Force operatives attempt to solve an ancient mystery that has deadly consequences.		 	 	 	3	1	2	KNOCKOUT, by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam, $26.95.) Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock &#8212; F.B.I. agents as well as husband and wife &#8212; try to protect a 7-year-old with psychic powers from her exploitive criminal uncle.		 	 	 	4		1	OMEN, by Christie Golden. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $27.) Luke Skywalker confronts a crisis in the Jedi order; a &#8220;Star Wars: Fate of the Jedi&#8221; book.		 	 	 	5	3	2	THE ANGEL&#8217;S GAME, by Carlos Ruiz Zaf<spade>n. (Doubleday, $26.95.) A Barcelona writer accepts a sinister commission.		 	 	 	6*	2	3	THE BOURNE DECEPTION, by Eric Van Lustbader. (Grand Central, $27.99.) Robert Ludlum&#8217;s character Jason Bourne helps to avert a possible world war.		 	 	 	7	4	3	RELENTLESS, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) A writer is pursued by a sociopathic critic.		 	 	 	8	5	3	THE PHYSICK BOOK OF DELIVERANCE DANE, by Katherine Howe. (Voice, $25.99.) A graduate student is caught up in her research on a healer accused of witchcraft in Salem.		 	 	 	9	8	5	SHANGHAI GIRLS, by Lisa See. (Random House, $25.) Two Chinese sisters in the 1930s are sold as wives to men from California, and leave their war-torn country to join them.		 	 	 	10	7	4	MEDUSA, by Clive Cussler and Paul Kemprecos. (Putnam, $27.95.) In the eighth NUMA Files novel, Kurt Austin and his team confront a Chinese crime syndicate and a deadly virus.		 	 	 	11*	6	5	THE SCARECROW, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) A Los Angeles Times reporter tracks a devious killer.		 	 	 	12	15	13	THE HELP, by Kathryn Stockett. (Amy Einhorn/Putnam, $24.95.) A young white woman and two black maids in 1960s /Mississippi.		 	 	 	13		1	THE FIXER UPPER, by Mary Kay Andrews. (Harper/HarperCollins, $25.99.) An unemployed Washingon lobbyist helps restore a family home in small-town Georgia.		 	 	 	14	13	8	DEAD AND GONE, by Charlaine Harris. (Ace, $25.95.) Sookie Stackhouse searches for the killer of a werepanther.		 	 	 	15		58	THE HOST, by Stephenie Meyer. (Little, Brown, $25.99.) Aliens have taken control of the minds and bodies of most humans, but one woman won&#8217;t surrender.		 	 	 	16*	9	2	THE NEIGHBOR, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $25.) There are many suspects when a pretty teacher disappears.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (69%); CELEBRITIES (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%); VIRUSES (60%); WITCHCRAFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



349 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BLOGOSPHERE BROOKLYN ON THE BAYOU; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Weekend Chefs, Conjuring New Orleans

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER NAZARYAN. 
Alexander Nazaryan is working on his first novel, ''Golden Youth,'' about Russian organized crime in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
It was Saturday morning, Louis Armstrong was growling a jazz standard, and sunlight sneaked in through golden-draped windows. Inside the Speakeasy, early risers found refuge from the humidity, awakened by pots of French pressed coffee and potent brunch cocktails like the Fire on the Bayou, a Cajun take on the Bloody Mary. 
 From the kitchen emanated a steady stream of powdered doughnuts known as beignets, sumptuous bananas Foster waffles and a masterful shrimp po' boy. 
Take a sip, close your eyes and listen to the banter rising above the sounds of jazz, and you might think yourself in some charmingly overgrown French Quarter byway.
 But this is Brooklyn, not New Orleans; that Big Easy feeling is a testament to the culinary prowess of Claire Wood, a real estate lawyer in Clinton Hill, and Gabrielle Smith, a project manager from Montclair, N.J. They have been renting space from the Speakeasy, on the corner of Waverly and Greene, on Saturday mornings for their Bayou Brunch. 
 ''We both have Louisiana roots, and we share the same passion for food,'' said Ms. Wood, whose office is mere steps from the Speakeasy. Two years ago, Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith started the Clinton Hill Pie Company, which has gained a clientele primarily by word of mouth and, Ms. Wood said, is ''really underground.'' 
 More recently, the women decided they wanted to expand into the cuisine of New Orleans, which mixes Cajun, French and African-American influences into a distinctive style. 
 Several months ago, Ms. Wood was closing a real estate deal for Deborah Wright, the owner of the Speakeasy, and mentioned her pies. The Speakeasy, a welcoming space whose dark wood interior is accented by mirrors, chandeliers and gilt curtains, was closed on Saturday mornings, so the Bayou Brunch was born.
 It is one of many New York restaurants that have started leasing space to outside chefs, especially as the economic downturn has tightened wallets and restaurants have become desperate to attract customers. 
 Shanah Walton, an assistant manager at the Speakeasy, described the arrangement as something of a sublet, in which Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith use the kitchen but bring their own ingredients and wait staff. She said the financial details were still being worked out. 
 Ms. Walton said that Ms. Wood was a ''pillar of the community,'' whose vibrant personality alone attracted a crowd. ''She's called out the cavalry,'' Ms. Walton said.
 The menu features four main plates and several smaller dishes, plus dessert, each executed with a deftness one might not expect from a weekend chef who draws up deeds for a living. 
 ''Let's just do one thing and do it well,'' Ms. Wood recalled thinking as she and Ms. Smith tried out a bevy of recipes in a friend's Montclair kitchen. 
 A French press of steaming coffee arrives with beignets, which Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith bake instead of frying and top with cinnamon sugar rather than heaps of confectionery powder. 
 The resulting pastry is impossibly soft, the sugar a subtle complement instead of the main attraction. Biscuits, often an afterthought, are another pleasant prelude: neither dry nor crumbly, they yield easily, revealing a moist interior. 
 When the Bayou Brooklyn breakfast arrived, the eggs were fluffy and the grits pleasantly hearty; they came with excellent turkey sausage patties, which lacked the greasiness of most breakfast links and whose infusion of sage and fennel added surprising fragrance. Restraint paid off in bananas Foster waffles; the firm waffles refused to sink under the weight of syrup and bananas.
 The indisputable star of the menu is the shrimp po' boy, a Big Easy native proud of its roots but eager to take Brooklyn by storm. Seafood lovers, from the old-timers who crowd the clam shacks of Sheepshead Bay to the devotees of Zak Pelaccio and his Fatty Crab empire, should take note of Ms. Wood and Ms. Smith's excellent concoction. 
 The crunchy batter yields to reveal perfectly fried, modestly sized shrimp, while the bread -- from Balthazar -- ably holds the dressing of slightly lemony mayonnaise and tomatoes. You may have to venture to Louisiana, or at least Cape Cod, to enjoy such divine seafood.
 As morning turned into early afternoon, the Speakeasy filled up. Many of the diners appeared to know Ms. Wood, who was described by an old friend, Brenda White, as ''the unofficial mayor of Clinton Hill.'' 
 Alexander Nazaryan is working on his first novel, ''Golden Youth,'' about Russian organized crime in Brooklyn. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER NAZARYAN) DRAWING: A blog of news, entertainment and informed conversation about life in Fort Greene and Clinton Hill: nytimes.com/thelocal 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



350 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Quiet Hero of Civil Rights History: A Supreme Triumph, Then Into the Shadows

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

 BODY:
Lloyd Gaines was moody that winter of 1939, acting not at all like a man who had just triumphed in one of the biggest Supreme Court cases in decades. And oddly, even though it was raining and the sidewalks of Chicago were clogged with slush, he felt a need to buy postage stamps one night.
 Or so he told a friend just before he left his apartment house on March 19, 1939, never to be seen again. Had he not vanished at 28, Lloyd Gaines might be in the pantheon of civil rights history with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Thurgood Marshall and other giants whose names will be invoked at the centennial convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which started this weekend in Manhattan. 
 Instead, Mr. Gaines has been consigned to one of history's side rooms, his name recalled mainly by legal scholars and relatives, like Tracy Berry, an assistant United States attorney in St. Louis whose grandmother was Mr. Gaines's sister. 
 ''He was taken away and more than likely killed,'' Ms. Berry said when asked to speculate on his fate. She said Mr. Gaines was known in family lore as ''a caring, loving brother and son'' who would not have chosen to disappear or commit suicide, despite the pressure he was under. 
 On Dec. 12, 1938, the Supreme Court ruled that the segregated University of Missouri Law School had to admit Lloyd Lionel Gaines, who was qualified except for the color of his skin, if there was no comparable legal education available to him within Missouri -- and there was not. 
 Despite his victory, Mr. Gaines was troubled. He had told relatives and friends he was having trouble finding steady work to earn money for school (apparently one reason he went to Chicago), and he was ambivalent about being in the spotlight. 
 ''As for my publicity relative to the university case, I have found that my race still likes to applaud, shake hands, pat me on the back and say how great and noble is the idea,'' he wrote his mother in St. Louis days before disappearing. ''How historical and socially important the case but -- and there it ends.'' He added, ''Sometimes I wish I were just a plain, ordinary man whose name no one recognized.'' 
 Born in Mississippi to sharecropper parents in 1911, Lloyd Gaines was 14 when his widowed mother, Callie, took her seven children to St. Louis. Graduating first in his all-black high school class, Mr. Gaines won a $250 scholarship in an essay contest. He enrolled at a teachers' college but dropped out for want of money. Then he won another modest scholarship, and with help from his brothers and black churches, he entered Lincoln University, a school for blacks in Jefferson City. 
 Mr. Gaines was president of his senior class, an honors graduate in history and a skilled debater. And he wanted to be a lawyer. There were only 36 black lawyers in Missouri in 1936, and all had been educated elsewhere, according to a 1951 article by Edward T. Clayton, an editor for Ebony whose account is probably the definitive one.
 For the 1930s, Missouri's policy was enlightened: since there was no law school at Lincoln, the state paid the tuitions of blacks from Missouri who went to nearby states to study law. And the Missouri legislature had committed itself to establishing a law school at Lincoln someday, should there ever be enough demand. 
 But Mr. Gaines said he wanted to go to the University of Missouri's law school, so in 1936 he sued in state court to gain admission. He lost, but lawyers for the N.A.A.C.P. saw his case as a way to attack the ''separate but equal'' doctrine laid down by the Supreme Court in 1896 in Plessy v. Ferguson, which was used to justify public school segregation.
 Mr. Gaines's team was headed by Charles Hamilton Houston, chief litigator for the N.A.A.C.P., mentor to Thurgood Marshall and later dean of the Howard University Law School. The case reached the Supreme Court on Nov. 9, 1938. Houston argued that the state had blatantly failed to meet the ''separate but equal'' standard and that paying out-of-state tuition for black students from Missouri was not good enough. The court ruled 6 to 2 for Mr. Gaines. ''The basic consideration here is not as to what sort of opportunities other states provide, or whether they are as good as those in Missouri, but as to what opportunities Missouri itself furnishes to white students and denies to Negroes solely upon the ground of color,'' Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes wrote. 
 Justices James C. McReynolds and Pierce Butler dissented, saying the State of Missouri ought to be able to set its own education policies. (There was one vacancy on the court.)
 The ruling in Gaines v. Canada (S. W. Canada was the university registrar) would eventually open the doors of law schools for blacks in a dozen Southern and border states. And it was a steppingstone toward Brown v. Board of Education, the landmark 1954 decision that repudiated the ''separate but equal'' notion in outlawing school segregation. 
 In 1939, the Missouri legislature tried to skirt the Gaines decision, setting up a supposedly equal, and ultimately short-lived, Lincoln University law school in an old beauty academy. It was only when the N.A.A.C.P. lawyers were preparing a challenge to this move that they realized Mr. Gaines had disappeared. 
 Mr. Gaines, who earned a master's degree in economics at the University of Michigan while his case was winding through the courts, had behaved erratically before. In January 1939, he told a St. Louis gathering that he was eager to study law at Missouri -- but his mother recalled things differently. 
 ''I remember once I asked him if he was going to that school, and he said, 'No,' '' Callie Gaines told Ebony in 1951. ''I told him then that I thought it would be too dangerous.'' The family never filed a missing-person report, figuring he would turn up when he wanted to, his mother said. 
 Lloyd Gaines's nephew George Gaines, a retired Navy captain who lives in San Diego, said recently, ''We have never had him declared dead.'' But Captain Gaines said he doubted that his uncle would have chosen to drop out of life, or end his life, given the perseverance he displayed.
 In the early 1950s, the University of Missouri began admitting black students. Lloyd Gaines is now revered at the university, which awarded him an honorary law degree in 2006. That year, the state bar awarded him a law license, posthumously. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lloyd Gaines in December 1938, the month the Supreme Court ruled that he should be admitted to law school in Missouri.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 George Gaines accepted an honorary doctor of law degree from the University of Missouri in 2006 for his uncle Lloyd Gaines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY L. G. PATTERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LEGAL EDUCATION (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); SUICIDE (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (82%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



351 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: In Reagan's Steps

BYLINE: By NICK GILLESPIE. 
Nick Gillespie is the editor in chief of Reason.com and Reason.tv.

 BODY:
THE LAST BEST HOPE
 Restoring Conservatism and America's Promise
 By Joe Scarborough
 271 pp. Crown Forum Publishers. $26
 Given how the last eight or so years have worked out for them in far-flung battlefields and domestic ballot boxes, you'd think that conservatives in general and Republicans in particular would be pretty gun-shy about the war rhetoric. But here's Joe Scarborough, a former Republican Florida congressman, letting it rip in ''The Last Best Hope: Restoring Conservatism and America's Promise'': ''Congressional leaders will . . . need to take a more prudent path on the environment by declaring war on foreign oil.'' 
 And in case you're wondering, just saying no to such a glorious future is not an option. ''Whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, a Libertarian or a Marxist, understand that it is historically inevitable that the 'Age of Conservatism' is coming soon,'' Scarborough, the Hegelian author of ''Rome Wasn't Burnt in a Day'' (2004), writes. ''The winds of history provide us no other choice.'' 
 If this book is indeed the last best hope of conservatism and America's promise, well, it was nice knowing you. Ultimately, Scarborough offers what Barry Goldwater might have called an echo, not a choice, of a Bush-Obama status quo regarding everything from bailouts to stimulus spending to rendition policy. He unwittingly tells us that conservatives can at best stand athwart history yelling ''Slow down,'' but they can't fundamentally change its direction. 
 To be sure, Scarborough is the host of ''Morning Joe'' on MSNBC, the most consistently engaging morning talk show on cable television. His co-host, Mika Brzezinski, and a stable of regulars that includes the accused plagiarist Mike Barnicle and the John Demjanjuk enthusiast Pat Buchanan (as well as the editor of the Book Review, Sam Tanenhaus) are a genuinely spirited crew who discuss and debate the news of the day with a mixture of conviction, knowledge and humor that is all too rare. Compared with, say, ''Fox & Friends,'' ''Morning Joe'' is the Algonquin Round Table on steroids, or at least Vivarin.
 Yet ''The Last Best Hope'' is less a serious manifesto (the book quotes the conservative saint Russell Kirk and the mawkish singer Sarah McLachlan) than a breezy bull session. Scarborough argues that right-wingers seeking to recapture Ronald Reagan's box office mojo need to embrace environmentalism (they should be ''Going green for God''); acknowledge the permanence of troubled entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare (''Everyone is going to have to give until it hurts''); and pursue a humble foreign policy (except when they don't: ''Most Republicans, including myself, were steadfast in their support for the war'' in Iraq). 
 On contentious social issues like abortion and gay marriage, the heirs to Edmund Burke and William F. Buckley Jr. should push for decisions to be made at the state level -- not necessarily because localized decision-making provides better answers but because ''that is the only way to protect the advances conservatives have made over the past generations.'' Most of all, Scarborough counsels, conservatives need to channel their inner Gipper by ''following the advice of Jesus and the example of Reagan, by trying more often to turn the other cheek'' during fractious policy debates.
 This may be sound strategy, but such sentiments certainly don't provide a true alternative to the surplus of centralized solutions emanating from Washington, at least since George W. Bush and a Republican Congress championed the Medicare prescription drug benefit, passed No Child Left Behind and created the enormous Department of Homeland Security.
 Scarborough dedicates his book ''to conservatives of all parties,'' in homage to the Nobel Prize-winning economist Friedrich Hayek, whose 1944 book, ''The Road to Serfdom,'' was dedicated ''to the socialists of all parties.'' If he were interested in pointing out a truly different direction, Scarborough would have done well to grok more Hayek and less McLachlan. In the essay ''Why I Am Not a Conservative,'' Hayek noted that conservatism is a reactionary impulse that ''by its very nature cannot offer an alternative to the direction in which we are moving.'' At most, Hayek said, it might succeed in ''slowing down undesirable developments.'' 
 Instead, Hayek pushed a decentralist, libertarian line because he believed that none of us has a monopoly on truth or knowledge, and that ''to live and work successfully with others requires . . . an intellectual commitment to a type of order in which . . . others are allowed to pursue different ends.'' In such thoughts is the beginning of a very different political program and, not coincidentally, one that might go much farther in restoring ''America's promise'' than supporting ''increased funding for school lunch programs by 4 percent instead of 6 percent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WRITERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (77%); DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); PLAGIARISM (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (63%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Last Best Hope, The (Book); Last Best Hope, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



352 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2241 words

HEADLINE: Inside His Exteriors

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: Tokyo 

 BODY:
 AFTER nearly four decades of work Toyo Ito has earned a cult following among architects around the world, although he is little known outside his home country, Japan. Through his strange and ethereal buildings, which range from modest houses for the urban recluse to a library whose arched forms have the delicacy of paper cutouts, he has created a body of work almost unmatched in its diverse originality. 
 Over the past decade, as the popularity of architecture has boomed and many of his contemporaries have jetted around the globe piling up one commission after another, Mr. Ito has largely remained on the sidelines. He is rarely mentioned in conversations about semicelebrities like Rem Koolhaas, Zaha Hadid or Jacques Herzog. He has repeatedly been passed over for the Pritzker Prize, architecture's highest honor, in favor of designers with much thinner resumes. Even in his native country he is overshadowed by Tadao Ando, whose brooding concrete structures have become a cliche of contemporary Japanese architecture.
 Mr. Ito's status may finally be about to change. On Thursday a stadium he designed for the World Games will be unveiled to a global audience in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. Its pythonlike form should produce as much a stir, at least within architectural circles, as did the Bird's Nest stadium by Mr. Herzog and Pierre de Meuron when it was unveiled a year ago at the Beijing Olympics. 
 Even more ambitious are his plans for the Taichung opera house, which is scheduled to go into construction sometime next year. A work of striking inventiveness, it has already been touted as a masterpiece. Its porous exterior, which resembles a gigantic sponge, is as wildly imaginative in its way as Frank Gehry's Guggenheim museum in Bilbao, Spain. Its design was a large reason Mr. Ito was recently awarded his first American commission, the Berkeley Art Museum in California.
 But even if Mr. Ito begins to land the big, lucrative commissions that he so obviously deserves, he may never be completely accepted by a broad popular audience. He does not have the intimidating, larger-than-life persona of a Koolhaas. Nor is he a flamboyant presence like Ms. Hadid, who is often compared to an opera diva because of her striking looks and imperial air. 
 Mr. Ito, by comparison, can be unassuming. A small, compact man with a round face framed by rectangular glasses and dark bangs, he is easygoing and rarely flustered. And he has the rare ability to consider his projects with a critical eye, even going so far as to point out flaws that a visitor might have overlooked.
 What's more, his work can be maddeningly difficult to categorize. No two Ito buildings look exactly alike. There is no unifying aesthetic style, no manifesto to advance. You can never be sure what Mr. Ito will do next, which can be thrilling for architects but nerve-racking for clients (another reason, perhaps, that his work isn't better known). 
 What his buildings do share is a distrust of simplistic formulas. His career can be read as a lifelong quest to find the precise balance between seemingly opposing values -- individual and community, machine and nature, male and female, utopian fantasies and hard realities.
 His ability to find such balances consistently has made him one of our great urban poets, someone who has been able to crystallize, through architecture, the tensions that lie buried in the heart of contemporary society. It makes his work especially resonant today, when much of the world is drawn to one form of extremism or another. 
 Mr. Ito, who was born in 1941, began his career at a pivotal time in Japanese architecture. As a student in the 1960s he followed Modernists like Kenzo Tange as they rebuilt the country's cultural confidence after the devastation of World War II. His first job was in the office of Kiyonori Kikutake, a founder of the Metabolist movement, which envisioned gigantic flexible structures that could adapt to a society in constant flux. It established Mr. Kikutake and his cohorts as prominent figures of the international avant-garde.
 But that decade of cultural optimism was short lived. By the 1970 Osaka Expo, which served as a showcase for the country's top architectural talents, Metabolism had been practically reduced to a fad, its social agenda stripped of its original meaning.
 ''All the big concepts were drained of idealism,'' Mr. Ito told me as we rode a bullet train through the Japanese countryside on the way to visit one of his buildings. ''It was very disappointing for the young generation. It became very hard to have any outward hope about the future.''
 This crisis of faith -- the sudden awareness of the powerlessness of architects, if not of architecture -- was soon followed by a prolonged economic recession, which meant that the kinds of large-scale public commissions available to many postwar architects were gone.
 Looking for a way forward Mr. Ito was drawn to the work of Kazuo Shinohara, a vocal critic of the Metabolists who believed that if architecture could change the world at all, it would do so not by promoting radical social visions but by creating small, modest spaces to nurture and protect the individual spirit. His houses, mostly build it in the 1960s and 1970s, were conceived as private utopias, with delicate interiors supported by muscular concrete pillars that seemed designed to resist the outside pressures of a corrupting society.
 Mr. Ito took this idea to its extreme in 1976 with the White U house, which was organized around a central court and completely shut off from the outside world. Designed for his younger sister, whose husband had died of cancer, its seamless white interiors were meant to create an intensely private, therapeutic environment, a place where she could recover from her grief. Only the tops of a few surrounding buildings and utility poles were visible from inside, a gentle reminder that life continued beyond its walls.
 But eventually this vision seemed as limiting as the Metabolist's vision seemed naive, and Mr. Ito would locate his architecture in the space between two extremes: the social idealism of late Modernism and the inwardness of Shinohara's work.
 His breakthrough came with the Sendai Mediatheque, a library and exhibition space completed in 2001. Seen from a distance the structure looks like a conventional Modernist glass box rising from one of Sendai's busy, tree-lined boulevards. The first hint of something out of the ordinary is a series of enormous white latticework tubes that pierce the top of the structure, capped by a delicate steel frame. The tubes seem to be arranged in a loose, almost random pattern, and as you get closer, you realize they extend down through the entire structure, connecting the floors. They not only hold up the building, they house elevators, staircases and mechanical systems. Sunlight, reflected from gigantic, computer-controlled mirrors, spills through them during the day, giving the building an ethereal glow.
 ''The tubes are often compared to trees in a forest,'' Mr. Ito told me through a translator as we toured the building. ''But they are also like objects in a Japanese garden, where space is created by movement around carefully arranged points, like ponds or stones.''
 The idea was to free us, both physically and psychologically, from the rigidity of the grid and what it implies -- the Cartesian logic, the erasure of individual identity. But the building is not just an isolated experiment. By echoing the forms of the conventional slab buildings around it and aggressively distorting them, the design suggests how the city too could be made more free and more human.
 This vision takes on even greater complexity in the Tama Art University Library, completed just over two years ago, west of Tokyo. Set at the edge of a dreary hillside campus, the structure was conceived as an irregular grid of delicate concrete arches.
 When I first saw it, it brought to mind the work of Louis Kahn, who -- in an effort to root modern architecture in an ancient past -- used classical references to imbue glass, concrete and steel with an aura of historical monumentality. But Mr. Ito's design turns this idea on its head. The arches that line the library's exterior vary in width from 6 feet to nearly 50 feet, giving them an offhand, whimsical quality. Windows are set flush to the arches' concrete surfaces so that the facades have a taut appearance, as if the building had been sealed in shrink wrap.
 Inside, the arches are arranged at odd angles to one another. Other structures seem casually placed inside the space -- a large concrete drum that houses mechanical systems at one end, a sculptural staircase at another. The floor of an informal exhibition space follows the slope of the surrounding landscape so that from inside, the relationship of the two seems fluid.
 The result is a kind of antimonument. The image we hold of a heavy, traditional arch becomes something fragile and ethereal. The classical sense of order dissolves. The design's aim is to liberate us from the oppressive weight of history and, in the process, open up imaginative possibilities.
 Since the library's completion his ambitions have led to a startling range of new designs. The concave roof segments of his recently opened Za-Koenji Public Theater in Tokyo, for instance, are vaguely reminiscent of Shinohara's House Under High-Voltage Lines (1981). But Mr. Ito's structure is more animated, reflecting the energy of its bustling working-class site.
 Seen from an elevated rail line that passes directly in front of it, the theater's uneven tentlike form seems to be a result of the forces colliding around it, like speeding trains and arcane zoning requirements. Inside, a wide elliptical staircase at the back corner of the lobby draws people up through the building. Big porthole windows are carved into its roof and walls. It is a simple, inexpensive building, yet its enigmatic form lingers in the imagination and transforms your perception of the neighborhood around it.
 The design for the 44,000-seat Kaohsiung stadium, by contrast, seems to be as much about the anxieties of a mass event as about a shared emotional experience. While traditional stadiums are designed to shut out the outside world, Mr. Ito's stadium seeks to maximize our awareness of it while still creating a sense of enclosure.
 From the main entry the stadium looks like a gigantic snake that is just beginning to coil around its prey. Its tail extends to one side, framing a large entry plaza. At times when the stadium is less full, people will be able to stroll through the gates from the plaza and sit on a patch of grass at the edge of the field, eroding the boundary between inside and out.
 Inside, the intertwining pipes of the canopy curl down and around the stands, enveloping the audience. And while the immediate surroundings are shut out, most seats have a distant view of downtown. The result is remarkable: a space that manages to maintain the intensity and focus of a grand stadium without that intensity becoming oppressive. 
 Yet it is in his design for the Taichung opera house, scheduled to go into construction sometime next year, that Mr. Ito comes closest to an ideal he has been chasing for decades: a building that seems to have been frozen in a state of metamorphosis. Set in a landscaped park, the opera house is conceived as a flexible network of interconnected vessels that has been sliced off on four sides to form a rectangular box.
 The amorphous forms are not random; their seemingly elastic surfaces grow and shrink according to the functions they house, which include restaurants, foyers, a roof garden and three concert halls that will seat from 200 and 2,000 people. Visitors will find themselves slipping between some of these forms and entering others. The sense of inside and out, of stillness and motion, becomes a complex, carefully composed dance.
 It is a striking vision, as beautiful as anything built in the past decade. And it sums up Mr. Ito's philosophy about both architecture and life, about the need to accommodate the many contradictions that make us human.
 It also suggests a way architecture can move forward.
 At the beginning of this century the field seemed to have entered a new age of freedom and experimentation. But like everything else, that spirit was quickly subsumed by the competitive greed of the global economy: the money, the real estate speculation, the frantic rush for consumer attention. Designs that were born of joy and exuberance, like Mr. Gehry's Guggenheim, were treated as marketable commodities, which became a kind of trap.
 Seen in that light, the inaccessibility of Mr. Ito's architecture is a virtue. Hard to pin down, it is also difficult to brand. By embracing ambiguity, his work forces us to look at the world through a wider lens. It asks us to choose the slowly unfolding narrative over the instant fix.
 ''I sometimes feel that we are losing an intuitive sense of our own bodies,'' Mr. Ito lamented at one point during my visit. ''Children don't run around outside as much as they did. They sit in front of computer games. Some architects have been trying to find a language for this new generation, with very minimalist spaces. I am looking for something more primitive, a kind of abstraction that still has a sense of the body.''
 ''The in between,'' he added, ''is more interesting to me.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 12 about the architect Toyo Ito referred incorrectly to the sibling for whom he designed the White U house in 1976. He designed it for the younger of his two older sisters, not for his younger sister.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Tama Art University Library, which opened west of Tokyo in 2007. The structure, designed by the Japanese architect Toyo Ito, has an exterior of irregular, delicate concrete arches.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMINO OHASHI)
The stadium in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, designed by Mr. Ito for the World Games, will open this week. It encloses what's inside while allowing awareness of what's outside.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIO FUTAGAWA/GA)(AR1)
Expressions of Toyo Ito's designs: Detailed views of the new stadium in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, above and bottom right
the Za-Koenji Public Theater in Tokyo, right
and an interior view of the Tama Art University Library, near right below.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY, MARC BIBO
KATSUMASA TANAKA/GA
TOMINO OHASHI)(AR20)
The Sendai Mediatheque, a library and exhibition space completed in 2001. The latticework tubes that pierce the top of the structure ''are also like objects in a Japanese garden,'' the architect Toyo Ito said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIO TAKASE/GA)
 Toyo Ito, right, with his model for the Taichung opera house, which will include restaurants, foyers, a roof garden and three concert halls that will seat 200 to 2,000 people.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM O'CONNELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (77%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (57%); FRANK GEHRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); KAO-HSIUNG, TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA (87%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) TAIWAN (91%); JAPAN (90%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



353 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2699 words

HEADLINE: How to Start a Company (And Kiss Like Angelina)

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
IN their star turns in James Bond movies, Ursula Andress and Halle Berry perfected the art of emerging from an ocean swim and walking onto the beach in a dripping-wet bikini. 
 For everyone else? Not so easy. But there are some tricks for aspiring Bond girls, and they involve, among other things, waterproof mascara, Vaseline and double-sided tape. There are some finer points, too, to pull off such a feat, and words can't quite convey their subtleties.
Sometimes -- and this is a difficult sentence for a newspaper to print -- it's easier to learn from a video.
 That notion led a handful of Google and YouTube veterans to start Howcast.com, and jump into the bustling and fast-growing crowd of Web sites offering how-to content. 
 Given the competition, from sites like Howdini and even YouTube, Howcast Media is betting that its particular blend of information and entertainment, presented in short and snappy video, will draw plenty of traffic and, most important, deliver a profit.
 Certainly the demand is there. People like to watch videos, and, in a bad economy, the ranks of do-it-yourselfers and would-be MacGyvers are swelling. 
 Already, Howcast has 100,000 videos in its library, some that it has produced itself and many more from others like Playboy, Popular Science, Home Depot and the Ford modeling agency that share in the ad revenue. 
 The site offers instruction on a range of topics, from everyday issues -- fixing a leaky faucet, creating a living will -- to the more obscure, like how to survive a bear attack or how to have sex in a car. (Nothing on Howcast is particularly graphic. Plenty of other sites, of course, already offer that sort of stuff.) 
 Given the ease of posting on sites like YouTube, where 20 hours of video are uploaded each minute, it takes more than a bunch of short clips to succeed. Part of the trick to winning on the Web is having a distinct personality.
 Some industry executives give Howcast credit for finding a way to stand out. 
 ''They understand that video is an incredible medium to share and instruct,'' says David Eun, a Google executive who oversees strategic partnerships. ''But they also realize that they can use video to provide instruction in an environment that is entertaining, not dry.''
 One of the biggest challenges for a site like Howcast, though, is the same one that has vexed old-school media giants and survivors of the dot-com boom: How can content creators turn a profit on the Web?
 Howcast's solution is to partner with advertisers and create instructional videos for their specific products or services. 
 Blurring the lines between editorial and advertising is a tricky endeavor, of course. Companies that try to be too stealthy or clever risk seeing their brand roasted on Facebook, Twitter and beyond.
 ''Users are sensitive to brands trying to muscle into what appears to be an organic social media environment,'' says Nick Thomas, an analyst at Forrester Research. ''Yes, I want to learn how to cook something, but do I necessarily want to be taught by someone who makes the ingredients?''
 Howcast's team of young executives argue that they can tap-dance along that fine line by making sure that any branding effort is in a supporting role, rather than a starring one, in its instructional videos.
 They are even forging relationships with the State Department as it looks for ways to use social networks and other media to communicate directly with people around the world. Among the videos they've produced for it are ''How to Protest Without Violence'' and ''How to Launch a Human Rights Blog.''
 Howcast executives are also quickly signing deals with the likes of Google, Facebook and Hulu to spread their videos across the Internet. 
 ''Being a media company today means you can't exist inside a walled garden, just driving traffic to your own site,'' says Jason Liebman, 33, Howcast's chief executive. ''You have to produce the content, distribute it all over the Web, develop the technology -- all of which is hard to do. But you need to do everything in order to be successful today.''
 SITTING in a stifling office loft in the SoHo neighborhood of Manhattan, with a couple of air-conditioners chugging away in vain, Jeffrey Kaufman runs through the topics that are particularly popular on search engines these days. The list includes werewolves. And manboobs.
 Mr. Kaufman is the head of programming at Howcast, and is supposed to have his fingertips on the nation's pulse through proprietary data-mining tools and information gathered from search engines. 
 Mr. Kaufman chalks up the werewolf craze to the coming movie ''New Moon,'' the second installment of the popular ''Twilight'' vampire series, based on the books by Stephenie Meyer. 
 Why manboobs? Everyone in the small room shrugs.
 Then they have to figure out a how-to video spin on the topics (How to make a werewolf costume? How to get rid of manboobs?). The final consideration is whether the subject will attract advertisers or, better yet, a corporation would pay to have its product or service appear in the video. 
 The how-to category is big and growing, but extremely fragmented. And while Howcast, whose Web site is just 17 months old, is watching its traffic soar, it lags far behind eHow and About.com (owned by The New York Times Company), according to Hitwise, a research firm. 
 Howcast says its videos were played more than 20 million times last month across all of its distribution network, including YouTube and Apple's iPhone. What may give Howcast a leg up on its competitors is the fact that the company is creating a library of high-quality content that could command higher ad rates, says Allen Weiner, an analyst at Gartner, the tech research firm.
 To help viewers navigate through the 100,000 videos on its site, Howcast divides them into 25 broad categories -- such as technology, travel and food and drink -- and then slices and dices those into smaller segments. 
 Viewers can rate the videos (a video teaching how to pick a lock rates disturbingly high). Videos on sex and relationships are among the most watched at the Howcast site. No. 1 is ''How to Have Sex in a Car,'' followed by ''How to Use Twitter'' and ''How to Kiss Like Angelina Jolie.'' (Ms. Jolie is not in the video; it features two women in their underwear kissing on a bed.)
 Mr. Liebman, the executive overseeing this start-up, seems somewhat embarrassed about this playlist. He prefers to talk about the Howcast videos that are the most popular across all the sites that distribute the company's content, including ''How to Quit Smoking'' and ''How to Do the Moonwalk.''
 Mr. Liebman was bitten by the start-up bug when he was 16 and started a newspaper -- ''it was profitable,'' he says -- for New York prep school students. In a 1992 article in The Daily News, he was described as the ''picture-perfect model of the Privileged Prepster.'' 
 After graduating from Duke with a degree in political science, Mr. Liebman migrated to Wall Street, where he spent some time as an investment banker in leveraged finance. Watching the dot-com run-up on the West Coast, however, he wanted to join the party. He packed his bags and took up residence on his twin sister's couch in Los Angeles.
 A couple of months later, he landed at a software start-up called Applied Semantics. There, he worked in sales and capital-raising while also overseeing a team of engineers that developed AdSense, software that matched advertisements to related content or text on a Web page. AdSense had been on the market for only a few months when, in 2003, Google acquired the company in a deal valued at $102.4 million. Mr. Liebman returned to New York to work from Google's offices there. 
 Much of his time at Google, particularly after the 2006 acquisition of YouTube, was spent persuading sometimes stubborn media companies to post clips of their shows or movies on its site. 
 Other members of the Google video team included Daniel Blackman, a sales and business development executive with a broad background in digital media, and Sanjay Raman, an M.I.T. graduate who started his first software company in college and later was an analyst at Morgan Stanley.
 Over time, the group noticed a surge in search traffic for instructional videos at Google and YouTube. 
 ''We were seeing user-generated content getting millions and millions of hits,'' Mr. Blackman says, ''and it would be nothing more than a guy in his dorm room showing you how to tie a tie with a simple Webcam.'' 
 The growing interest in how-to videos parallels what happened in the early days of video, says Mr. Weiner, the Gartner analyst. 
 ''Things like the Jane Fonda video that showed people how to exercise was a big blockbuster,'' he notes. 
 Other sites were building business models around simple instructional homemade videos, but Mr. Blackman and his team saw flaws in their strategy.
 The quality of footage and content was uneven. The pedigree of the individual ''experts'' was unclear. And advertisers sometimes balk at homemade videos, citing concerns about who owns the rights to the content, Mr. Blackman says.
 The three friends left the comfortable confines of Google in May 2007 and set off on their own. 
 Most large venture capital firms are loath to back start-ups without seeing some content or a mockup of the site. So Howcast's founders bankrolled the company's first batch of videos, producing them on the cheap.
 For that, Mr. Liebman invited his twin sister, Darlene Liebman, to come on board as another co-founder. Ms. Liebman had spent a decade in television and film, working on shows like ''Nash Bridges,'' ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'' and video clips for Nickelodeon.
 Ms. Liebman's marching orders were to create 400 how-to videos in two months.
 ''That's like boiling the ocean; I thought he was absolutely insane,'' Ms. Liebman said. They set up a small studio in the back of their office and called on family, friends and even employees to appear in some of the early videos. 
 Another one of Mr. Liebman's sisters, a dermatologist, was enlisted for a video on how to spot skin cancer. The company also sought out local experts, bringing in the head chef from the restaurant Sushi Samba for a video on how to make sushi.
 To build its library even faster, Howcast started offering aspiring filmmakers $50 to shoot two- to three-minute videos. The practice continues: Besides getting a chance to show off their skills to a large audience, they also get a percentage of the ad revenue if their video is a hit. 
 The videos produced by Howcast follow a set format, using quirky music, graphics and voiceovers, which make the videos easier to translate into different languages. Howcast even built its own media player with slow-motion and zoom-in features. 
 With the company's beta site running, Mr. Liebman started hunting for venture capital last fall. Thanks in part to the resumes of the Howcast founders, they quickly raised $10 million from the Tudor Investment Corporation and tech insiders like Tim Armstrong, who was recently named chief executive of AOL, and Jason Hirschhorn, recently named chief product officer at MySpace. 
 ''What we liked was the fact that there's endless content,'' notes Kevin Law, a former music executive who is now an investment consultant to Tudor and serves on Howcast's board. ''There's a how-to that can go along with any service, any product.'' 
 Building up a library of content is relatively easy, says Rupert Ashe, the chief financial officer of Videojug in Britain, which went live in 2006 and now has 100,000 how-to videos. 
 ''The thing that is difficult to get and takes many, many years to build up is a following and traffic to the site and a place in the search-engine constellation,'' Mr. Ashe says.
 The space hasn't yet seen a ''mega-breakout site,'' says Mr. Thomas of Forrester Research. But over time, he says, one or two sites will inevitably emerge as dominant players, and many others will fade away. 
 IN the middle of last year, the food company Nestle noticed a peculiar spike in complaints from consumers in a Middle Eastern country about the taste of one of its products, the instant coffee Nescafe Gold. 
 After some sleuthing, the company discovered that people in that country -- Nescafe wouldn't say which one -- didn't understand how to make its instant coffee. They were making it like traditional ground coffee, said Rakan Brahedni, a new-media relationship specialist for Nestle in Dubai. 
 Mr. Brahedni, who says he had ''fallen in love'' with Howcast's site, particularly its cooking videos, was already in discussions with the start-up to add videos to Nestle's Web site. 
 So Howcast quickly produced a video showing how to make Nescafe Gold. The graphics, subtitles and voiceover were done in both English and Arabic.
 ''This was very much out-of-the-box for us, and now we're seeing a lot of excitement from other brands'' inside the company, Mr. Brahedni says. The video will soon appear on a Nescafe Web site, and Howcast will distribute it to some of its partners. 
 In this light, Howcast may look like more of an advertising agency than a media company. Unlike pricey ad agencies, however, that can charge hundreds of thousands of dollars for a 30-second advertising spot, Howcast produces videos for corporate customers at a fraction of that cost. Its executives say this is its entree into big corporate ad budgets. 
 And they argue that they are still sticking with their primary focus: to create instructional content.
 When JetBlue Airways planned its inaugural flight from Kennedy Airport in New York to Los Angeles International earlier this year, it turned to Howcast to create videos for the occasion. 
 The result was a series of clips, including ''How to Stay Fabulous When You Fly Coast to Coast,'' featuring Delphine, a leggy Ford model with her own YouTube following. The video can be found on numerous sites, including Yahoo, AOL, MySpace and Metacafe. 
 JetBlue executives say they are thrilled with the response from the spots and plan to work with Howcast again. ''What Howcast offers is something that is very cost-effective and very targeted,'' said Morgan Johnston, a JetBlue spokesman. 
 Howcast executives see opportunities beyond corporate America. They're hoping to get more work from the federal government.
 So far, they've worked mostly with the State Department in its ''Public Diplomacy 2.0'' initiative to use new media to communicate, says James K. Glassman, a former under secretary of state for public diplomacy. 
 ''What we saw in Iran is that the private sector played a very important role in disseminating information there,'' Mr. Glassman says. ''Companies like Twitter and Facebook facilitated a lot of the activity in Iran.''
 In April, Mr. Liebman traveled to Iraq with a delegation from several tech companies on a trip arranged by the State Department to offer guidance on how new technologies could be used in the country. Howcast is also working on a project for the Defense Department. 
 Mr. Liebman says the company is willing to ''turn over lots of different stones'' in its search for profits.
 HOWCAST enjoyed a break-out moment earlier this year, thanks to a five-second cameo appearance as one of the featured applications in a television ad for the iPhone. Downloads for Howcast's iPhone application jumped from around 1,000 a day to 24,000 at its peak.
 People who download Howcast.com onto their iPhone spend an average of 12 minutes on the site each time they visit, twice the amount of time spent watching from their computers, says Mr. Raman, Howcast's head of product development. ''That tells me that this is going to be a huge platform for us,'' he says.
 In the meantime, Howcast is exploring ways to distribute its content on other mobile devices and developing features so customers can buy items they see in the clips.
 The company will probably need to do another round of financing in coming months. But Mr. Liebman is projecting that Howcast could be profitable by late next year. 
 If he's right, the company could become the star of a new instructional video: ''How to Create a Profitable Start-Up.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the making of a video, ''How to Choose the Right Sunscreen Lotion,'' in Los Angeles for Howcast. The site's wide-ranging instructional videos include ''How to Survive a Bear Attack,'' below.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HOWCAST)(pg. BU1)
Co-founders of the instructional Web site Howcast at its Manhattan office. From left, Daniel Blackman, Jason Liebman, Sanjay Raman and Darlene Liebman.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Among Howcast videos, ''How to Create a Modern Day Scavenger Hunt,'' left, and ''How to Make a Fruit Smoothie.''(pg. BU6) CHART: How Many Are Asking 'How'?: Howcast's brief how-to videos were viewed more than 20 million times last month, according to the company. Some of the videos appear on sites other than Howcast.com.(Source: Howcast)(pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); BEACHES (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: HALLE BERRY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



354 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Good Intentions Aside, Are We Killing the Patient?

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HERE'S a funny story that made the rounds in Washington a long time ago: It's 1955, and President Dwight D. Eisenhower has just suffered a heart attack. He is recuperating in his hospital bed. Richard M. Nixon, the vice president, comes in and says: ''General, I am so sorry this has happened. Is there anything I can do to help? I'll do anything at all.''
 Ike looks over at him wanly and says, ''Well, you could get your foot off my oxygen tube.'' 
 I heard this fanciful joke from my mother, who, like me, was a huge fan of Nixon. I tell it because it reminds me of what's going on with the economy.
 The sad truth is that the economy is still extremely ill. The recovery we were all waiting for has not started in any meaningful way.
 True, by many metrics, the economy has stopped falling drastically, but we are still in a painful recession, large by postwar standards. The bank crises seem to have abated for now and Wall Street is paying itself fantastically well again, thank heavens, after being rescued with taxpayer money. But housing is still extremely weak, profits are miserable and, most important, far too many Americans are unemployed -- roughly 9.5 percent, by the latest data.
 Just as basic, far too many Americans are living in fear.
 What is President Obama doing about it? Perhaps too much. And, possibly, his efforts are too diffuse. When I think about the economy I think about a plump man who has just been hit by a truck while crossing a street and is in severely critical condition with internal bleeding. Instead of just stabilizing his hemorrhaging, the doctor decides that while the patient is unconscious, he might as well also do a face lift, some coronary bypasses and a stomach-stapling to keep him from gaining weight while he is recovering (if he does recover). After all, a crisis is not to be wasted.
 The problem is that all these ambitious operations create too much of a burden for the human body to bear.
 Similarly, we have an administration that is simultaneously seeking to end the recession, discussing drastic changes to laws on foreclosures and energy use and completely changing the health care system. I respectfully question whether all of this makes sense.
 I don't believe we need to do something radical about energy, but even assuming that we do, why do it right now? Do we need to take one of the few sectors that is working like clockwork through the recession -- oil refining -- and wring its neck by making it pay for pollution ''cap and trade'' credits? Why attack a healthy industry when so many other sectors are ill? What is all of this anger at Big Oil, which has not done anything blameworthy, all about? Why endlessly beat up the companies that keep the country going? 
 All history is the history of class struggle, as Marx said, and I suspect that the rage of the news media and academic classes against the oil industry is a form of class struggle. But more on that in another column.
 And do we need drastic work on the legality of foreclosures right now? I agree that foreclosures are a huge problem. But isn't part of the housing quandary that banks are afraid to lend because they fear losing their collateral -- the mortgaged home -- if the laws change? Why add that level of uncertainty to an already dicey situation?
 I utterly agree that health care should not be denied to Americans because they are poor. But where will the money come from in an economy already on its knees? And if the government is going to print the money, won't that add to the inflationary fears already hobbling the economy? The huge increase in the monetary base is blamed for a spike in interest rates which are themselves hobbling the recovery.
 Long ago, I had a talk with the late, great, much lamented writer and friend John Gregory Dunne at the Palm Restaurant in West Hollywood. I told him about the many things I was doing. It sounds good, he said, but you don't want to become like one of those third-world countries that embarks on development so ambitious that it's too much for the economy and the country collapses.
 I do not pretend that the analogy with 2009 America is precise, because it's not. This is a huge first-world country. But there is enough truth that it makes me a bit uncomfortable. Maybe we should just concentrate on ending the recession and talk about the other plans later. Let's consider just how much uncertainty is good for the economy. 
 Or, in other words, let's take government's foot off the oxygen tube. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEART DISEASE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); FORECLOSURE (67%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (61%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



355 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2225 words

HEADLINE: About Face

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Four years ago, there was little about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg that Howard Wolfson did not find objectionable.
 As a master strategist for the New York Democratic Party, Mr. Wolfson worked with a handful of other elite party operatives to lay out a grand plan to defeat Mr. Bloomberg in the 2005 mayoral race, writing in an internal memo, ''Michael Bloomberg is an out-of-touch billionaire who can't relate to the problems of ordinary New Yorkers.''
 When the mayor tried to impose nonpartisan elections in the city, Mr. Wolfson called it a ''cynical power grab.'' When he spent tens of millions of dollars of his own money to bankroll his re-election, Mr. Wolfson said such spending ''distorts the terms of the debate.'' He impugned Mr. Bloomberg's attempt to build a West Side stadium (an ''out-of whack-priority'') and even criticized his beloved ''Gates,'' the saffron cloth panels arrayed through Central Park by the artist Christo (''shmattes on sticks''). 
 And when some prominent Democrats defected to the Bloomberg camp that year, Mr. Wolfson cried foul, declaring himself personally dismayed by their disloyalty. 
 This year, Mr. Bloomberg is again spending tens of millions of dollars to run for re-election on the Republican ballot line against a Democratic opponent. But this time, Mr. Wolfson is a senior architect of the effort.
 Mr. Wolfson's conversion has become a source of fascination and dismay among New York Democrats, who are now on the other end of the cutting brand of politics he perfected as a chief strategist for Hillary Rodham Clinton. In the city, he is credited in political circles with pressuring Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a Democrat, to quit the mayor's race. The switch has been cited as an example of how the billionaire mayor, who is prepared to spend as much as $100 million of his own money to win a third term, can buy the silence of even his most ardent critics -- an assertion summarily dismissed by Mr. Wolfson, whose consulting firm is earning $40,000 a month from the campaign.
 ''The risk for someone like Howard is that he is surrendering his credibility,'' said Joel Benenson, a senior political adviser to President Obama who was Mr. Weiner's campaign pollster. ''He made countless statements to the press during the presidential primaries that were wrong, and now he's saying things that completely contradict what he said four years ago.''
 For Mr. Wolfson, who in a 2005 profile boasted of never having dated a Republican, the transition has brought its share of personal and professional difficulties. Most nights this spring, he could be found in a room alone at the W hotel in Union Square -- or any other hotel, he said, that he could find on Travelocity for under $300 a night -- while his wife, Terri McCullough, chief of staff to the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and two children, one an infant, remained in Washington. (Ms. McCullough is on maternity leave, and the family is spending the summer together in an Upper West Side sublet). 
 And after years in the upper echelons of Mrs. Clinton's campaign, he remains something of an outsider in the efficient corporate culture of the Bloomberg camp, where he was initially viewed with suspicion by some veterans.
 Mr. Wolfson said in an interview at the Bloomberg campaign complex in Midtown that he was as surprised as anyone to be where he was, but he described himself as one of many Democrats who have come to admire the mayor -- and said such political conversions are the best testament to the cross-party allure of Mr. Bloomberg's nonideological way of governing. 
 Still, there is an alternate view: that Mr. Wolfson, reeling from Mrs. Clinton's demoralizing loss, and an object of scorn among some Obama loyalists for the attacks he waged long after it became clear that she had no chance of winning, saw in Mr. Bloomberg an easy, high-profile victory.
 ''I am not interested in losing,'' he said.
 Mrs. Clinton's drawn-out defeat in last year's presidential primaries was a defining moment in the long journey that took Mr. Wolfson from the relative obscurity of local Democratic politics to the pinnacle of national campaigns and, now, to his new and unexpected perch.
 A native of Yonkers, Mr. Wolfson, 42, received a master's degree in history from Duke University, then covered local politics at a weekly newspaper in Virginia. He worked for Representative Nita M. Lowey of Westchester, then for Charles E. Schumer's campaign for the Senate in 1998, before joining Mrs. Clinton's 2000 Senate bid. 
 She was initially wary of Mr. Wolfson but in time she grew fond of him, a person close to her said, partly because of his idiosyncrasies: He can be painfully shy; his fear of flying is so deep that he drives to even the most far-flung campaign stops; and his food allergies, including those to fish and nuts, have forced him to hold conference calls from the hospital.
 Several years after Mrs. Clinton's victory, Mr. Wolfson opened a New York office for a consulting firm based in Washington, the Glover Park Group, and quickly built a large client base that included Rupert Murdoch, longtime bete noir of Democrats, who owns The New York Post and Fox News Channel.
 During that time, Mr. Wolfson established himself as a fierce adversary of the mayor. His firm helped orchestrate the successful campaign to defeat Mr. Bloomberg's proposed West Side stadium, doing so on behalf of Cablevision, the company that owns Madison Square Garden, which might have been hurt by the competition. He was also hired by the New York State Democratic Party to derail a proposal by Mr. Bloomberg, then a Republican, to limit the role of political parties in city elections.
 But by the fall of 2005, his attacks on the mayor had abated. Mrs. Clinton had asked him to stand down because she wanted Mr. Bloomberg to remain neutral in her own re-election race the next year and figured that Mr. Wolfson's criticism would only antagonize him, a senior Clinton campaign aide said.
 Once Mrs. Clinton won a second term to the Senate, her political operation quickly shifted gears and began her presidential bid, with Mr. Wolfson as director of communications. Working from Virginia, he ran a war room that was a 24/7, take-no-prisoners operation that relied on the aggressive peddling of information embarrassing to opponents and flattering to Mrs. Clinton.
 Mr. Wolfson originally proposed emphasizing Mrs. Clinton's biography rather than attacking rivals, but he was overruled and eventually became the face of her bare-knuckled fight with Barack Obama. ''A decision was made about the strategy and he executed it,'' said Patti Solis Doyle, Mrs. Clinton's former campaign manager. ''And he executed it well.''
 So well that, as his barrage continued unabated despite the inevitability of defeat, the television host Chris Matthews told him on MSNBC one night, ''You're like one of these Japanese soldiers that's still fighting in 1953.'' 
 After the campaign, when Mr. Wolfson signed up as an analyst with Fox News, Mr. Matthews called it ''Howard's End,'' identifying it as a sign of his isolation from the national Democratic Party.
 But in New York, many Democrats, including his friends, figured he would help the party retake City Hall. In 2005, he helped William C. Thompson Jr. get re-elected as city comptroller; he was widely expected to join Mr. Thompson again, this time as an adviser to his mayoral campaign.
 But Mr. Wolfson demurred when Mr. Thompson's campaign manager, Eduardo Castell, called last summer to see if he would sign on, saying he needed a break from the grind of politics.
 Mr. Castell said in an interview that he accepted the explanation given by Mr. Wolfson, who had become a despondent, gloomy figure around the campaign offices during the final stages of the presidential primaries.
 It was, however, a much angrier conversation, Mr. Castell said, when Mr. Wolfson called a few months later to report that he would indeed join the race -- for Mr. Bloomberg. ''I certainly had a reaction, but I'll leave it at that,'' Mr. Castell said, adding, ''I always knew him to be a true believer in what the Democratic Party stood for. Obviously, in 2009, that changed.''
 Even his closest friends were taken aback. ''I'm literally shocked,'' said Jen Bluestein, who worked for Mr. Bloomberg's 2005 opponent, Fernando Ferrer. But, she said, she came to accept it, given his loyalty to the Ferrer campaign four years ago.
 Mr. Wolfson said he was initially reluctant to join the Bloomberg camp. Though many Democrats say he was tempted in part by the mayor's penchant for showering top campaign advisers with large salaries and bonuses, Mr. Wolfson denied that he took the job for the money, saying he had other lucrative opportunities. The mayor's change in party registration to independent from Republican, Mr. Wolfson said, helped (though Mr. Bloomberg is planning to run again as the Republican nominee this year).
 Over a series of meetings, Deputy Mayor Kevin Sheekey, Mr. Bloomberg's longtime political adviser, coaxed Mr. Wolfson to sign on by posing a single question: Did he believe anybody else in the running would be a better mayor? Mr. Wolfson said his response was no.
 ''There has been an evolution among rank-and-file Democrats in recognizing him as a great mayor,'' Mr. Wolfson said.
 For his part, Mr. Sheekey, who once accused Mr. Wolfson's firm of having ''corrupted'' the political process with its relentless attacks on the mayor, said in an interview that he would rather have Mr. Wolfson working for him than against him. 
 ''I have both respected and feared Howard from probably the first day I met him,'' he said, adding: ''Howard coming to work for Mike Bloomberg is no different than Hillary Clinton going to work for Barack Obama: Think of all the nasty things that Hillary Clinton said about Barack Obama.''
 Mr. Wolfson claimed his first Democratic scalp in May, as Mr. Weiner -- once a close ally in the Clinton campaigns -- dropped out of the mayoral race amid a Wolfson-led behind-the-scenes campaign to force him to do just that.
 Working with a local press corps he had cultivated for years, Mr. Wolfson and his team dug up and then pushed a steady stream of politically damaging tidbits about Mr. Weiner, giving the congressman an early taste of what he might face come the fall.
 In one instance, Mr. Wolfson's team discovered that Mr. Weiner had introduced a bill making it easier for foreign-born fashion models to work in the United States. In New York's tabloid news culture -- one Mr. Wolfson navigates well -- the discovery produced unflattering news stories packaged with photographs of the congressman and sultry exotic models.
 No matter that Mr. Weiner was someone Mr. Wolfson dispatched frequently as a surrogate against President Obama during last year's primaries, or that Mr. Weiner's fiancee, Huma Abedin, is a confidante of Mrs. Clinton's whom Mr. Wolfson once considered a friend. 
 But Mr. Wolfson said that it was a fair fight and that he relished what he had accomplished. His team commemorated Mr. Weiner's departure from the race by tacking on a wall in their office a photograph of the congressman in his goalie uniform during a pickup hockey game, with a caption quoting him as saying, ''This is not a time for playing games; it's a time for problem-solving.''
 If Mr. Wolfson is viewed as a traitor in some Democratic precincts of New York, his decision to work for Mr. Bloomberg has not stirred the same passions in Washington, where many Democrats -- the very people, it should be said, who still pay Mr. Wolfson's salary at Glover Park -- view the mayor as a politically benign figure.
 Even former President Bill Clinton gave him a blessing of sorts. ''Howard was critical in electing and re-electing Hillary to the Senate, and last year he fought hard for her until the last day of the campaign,'' Mr. Clinton said in a statement. ''I can see why the mayor wanted him on board.''
 But the transition has not been seamless. Mr. Wolfson barely knows the mayor, having met him for the first time only a few months ago, and initially had a hard time keeping Mr. Bloomberg from deviating from the campaign script -- no small issue given that Mr. Wolfson's primary responsibility is the oversight of all campaign-related communications for the mayor. 
 The mayor exploded with anger publicly on several occasions, including one when he called a reporter ''a disgrace.'' It was an unfamiliar experience for Mr. Wolfson, who had helped Mrs. Clinton become adept at holding her tongue no matter how strident the attacks on her became.
 It has also been intriguing for people to watch Mr. Wolfson explain away things he once declared outrageous, like the mayor's campaign spending.
 On a Friday afternoon in the spring, he gathered a group of reporters in Mr. Bloomberg's campaign headquarters to share the news that the mayor had spent $18 million in the first few months of his re-election effort. The announcement spurred the kind of questions Mr. Wolfson himself once so pointedly asked, like whether the mayor was trying to buy the election. Mr. Wolfson knocked down the questions in stride, and did not seem the least bit fazed by the contradictions.
 ''They don't pay me,'' he said in an interview that day, ''to disagree with the mayor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE OTHER SIDE: Howard Wolfson in Bryant Park, not far from the campaign headquarters where he works for Mayor Bloomberg. (pg.MB1)
ON POINT Howard Wolfson, who once opposed the mayor, at the Midtown re-election office. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
BACKGROUND: Howard Wolfson, behind Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2000, and the mayor this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MB6) GRAPHIC: SAME STRATEGIST, DIFFERENT WORDS: On the mayor's support from the Independence Party and the Republican Party and his quest for backing by the Liberal Party: 2005 ''I guess having bought two parties, he wants to buy another.'' 2009 He ''was very successful in 2001 and 2005 in creating a fusion coalition that helped propel him to victory, and very much looks forward to creating such a coalition this time.''
On the mayor's attempts to make city elections nonpartisan: 2003 ''New Yorkers know that this referendum is a cynical power grab designed to help the mayor's own reelection efforts.'' 2009 ''They don't pay me to disagree with the mayor.''
On the effect of the mayor's money on the political process: 2005 ''Such a lopsided ratio prevents voters from hearing both sides in an evenhanded manner and distorts the terms of the debate.'' 2009 ''This isn't about money. The race will come down to which candidate has the best record and vision to lead the city at this difficult time.''
 On the mayor's record-setting advertising spending: 2005 ''For four years, this out-of-touch mayor has pursued the wrong priorities. Millions in slick advertising won't erase that failed record.'' 2009 ''If it were up to me, we would have run ads a month earlier than today. This issue of jobs and the economy is one that we want to engage the public with in a conversation.'' (pg.MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



356 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: Path to Court: Speak Capably But Say Little

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On his first day at the Justice Department in 1981, a 26-year-old lawyer named John G. Roberts Jr. was handed a high-profile assignment: to help prepare Sandra Day O'Connor, then an Arizona judge, for her Supreme Court confirmation hearings.
 ''The approach was to avoid giving specific responses to any direct questions on legal issues likely to come before the court,'' Mr. Roberts wrote later that year in a report to a Justice Department supervisor, ''but demonstrating in the response a firm command of the subject area and awareness of the relevant precedents and arguments.''
 That advice -- sound as if you know what you are talking about but avoid saying anything -- has been followed pretty faithfully by every nominee since, including the report's author, who is now chief justice of the United States. And it may well be followed by Judge Sonia Sotomayor, whose Senate confirmation hearings are scheduled to begin Monday.
 Senators are planning to ask about politically charged issues -- abortion, race, gay rights, foreign law and the Second Amendment -- and the nominee will probably answer only a predictable few. Judge Sotomayor will have little reason to deviate from the convention, with perhaps one exception, to explain how her background would influence her work as a justice. 
 ''It will be a slightly different cast of characters performing a set piece drama we have seen many times before,'' said David J. Garrow, a University of Cambridge historian who has written widely on the court.
 Both the judge and members of the Senate Judiciary Committee have been preparing for their roles. For more than a week, Ms. Sotomayor has rehearsed with Obama administration lawyers who are volleying questions at her, pored over briefing books and reviewed cases that came before her as a judge. For their part, some senators have been honing their queries. 
 Here is the basic script: the nominee is expected to praise Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 decision barring segregation in public schools; endorse a constitutional right to privacy without saying whether it extends to abortion; and deplore cases like Dred Scott, the 1857 decision that said black people could be property but not citizens, and Korematsu v. United States, the 1944 decision endorsing internment camps for people of Japanese ancestry during World War II.
 Beyond checking those boxes, though, nominees usually decline to express views on other legal issues. The protocols are looser when it comes to questions about biography, professional experience and statements made off the court.
 Judge Sotomayor may choose to veer from the script in a few places. She may explain what role empathy ought to play in a judge's work, what she meant when she said that a ''wise Latina woman'' might render better decisions than a white male and what she did as a board member of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund for more than a decade before becoming a judge.
 Republican senators have said they will press her about her role with the group. ''During her time there,'' Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement, ''the organization took extreme positions on legal issues ranging from the death penalty to abortion to racial quotas.''
 Gregory B. Craig, the White House counsel, told the committee in a recent letter that the group is ''highly respected,'' adding that Ms. Sotomayor did not supervise its staff or direct the lawsuits it filed.
 When senators question her about divisive issues likely to reach the Supreme Court in the next few years, Judge Sotomayor will probably say she cannot comment on matters that she might one day rule on. She may invoke the phrase Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg used at her hearings in 1993: ''no hints, no forecasts, no previews'' about how she would rule as a justice.
 Abortion is unlikely to play the central role that it has in previous hearings, largely because Judge Sotomayor is not expected to alter the balance of the court on the question. Instead of Republican conservatives pushing her to discuss Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that identified a constitutional right to abortion, Democrats may raise the issue, seeking reassurance that she supports the decision.
 Indeed, Nancy Northrop, the president of the Center for Reproductive Freedom, said her group had lobbied Democrats to press the judge for her views on abortion rights, an issue on which she has never ruled. The topic should not be taboo, she said.
 ''Constitutional protections for abortion rights should not be treated differently than other important questions of constitutional law,'' she said.
 Judge Sotomayor, if she is true to the script, may respond in a sort of code, one that touches on respect for precedent and Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the 1992 decision that reaffirmed the core of the Roe decision.
 Some Democratic senators have indicated that they will highlight Judge Sotomayor's record as a prosecutor and her somewhat conservative rulings in criminal cases. Others intend to raise other legal issues.
 Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, who has posted questions on his Web site that he is likely to pose to Judge Sotomayor, plans to ask about her views on the role of foreign and international law in interpreting the Constitution. 
 Senator Ted Kaufman, Democrat of Delaware, said he intended to focus on Judge Sotomayor's views on financial laws, including the power of Congress to make decisions about regulatory oversight of the economy. He said the Supreme Court in recent terms had shown an unduly pro-corporate ''bias.''
 ''We've got issues of business and regulatory reform coming down the pike, and I want to make sure that the Supreme Court'' respects the authority of Congress in that area, he said. 
 Gun-rights advocates have urged senators to oppose Judge Sotomayor because she joined an unsigned decision in January refusing to extend the Supreme Court's 2008 decision in District of Columbia v. Heller, which struck down a federal gun-control law on Second Amendment grounds, to a New York law banning a martial arts weapon. The federal appeals courts are divided on whether Supreme Court precedent requires that the Second Amendment be applied to state laws, and the Supreme Court is expected to address the issue soon. 
 Republican senators have said they will push Judge Sotomayor to explain her role in Ricci v. DeStefano, the case brought by white and Hispanic firefighters in New Haven claiming race discrimination after the city threw out a promotional exam on which they had done well and black firefighters poorly. 
 Judge Sotomayor joined a short, unsigned decision last year from a three-judge panel affirming dismissal of the case, which the Supreme Court reversed and sent back to the lower court last month. ''Judge Sotomayor provided no rationale for her controversial decision,'' Mr. Sessions said. 
 Since the Ricci case is still pending, Judge Sotomayor is probably barred by ethics rules from commenting on it. 
 But her allies said she might nonetheless want to remind senators that the vote in the Supreme Court was 5 to 4. She may want to assert, they said, that the justices in the majority announced a new legal standard, making it harder to fault her court for failing to anticipate the change. And she may want to open the curtain on her court's internal procedures, they said, as there is reason to think that she did not write the panel decision.
 Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. faced a similar predicament in explaining his dissenting vote as an appeals court judge in the Casey case. He would have upheld a Pennsylvania law that required married women to notify their husbands before having an abortion, and the Supreme Court disagreed in a 5-to-4 ruling. 
 At his 2006 confirmation hearings, Justice Alito said he had wrestled with trying to forecast how the Supreme Court would rule. He said his dissent ''turned out not to be a correct prediction'' but was ''the best I could do under the circumstances.''
 In general, though, nominees are apt to dodge questions.
 ''Justice Ginsburg's favored technique took the form of a pincer movement,'' Elena Kagan, now the United States solicitor general, wrote in The University of Chicago Law Review in 1995. If a question was too specific, she would decline to answer on the ground that she did not want to forecast a vote. If it was too general, she would say a judge should not deal in abstractions or hypothetical questions.
 ''Some room may have remained in theory between these two responses; perhaps a senator could learn something about Justice Ginsburg's legal views if he pitched his question at precisely the right level of generality,'' wrote Ms. Kagan, then a law professor at the University of Chicago. 
 There is a significant exception to this rule, one illustrated in Justice Ginsburg's hearings. Nominees often feel free, or are even required, to discuss their writings off the bench. 
 Justice Ginsburg, who had been a leading litigator in the cause of gender equality, did not shy away from discussing Roe v. Wade. (She approved of the result but questioned its timing, breadth and reasoning.) For similar reasons, Justice Stephen G. Breyer spoke candidly about regulatory policy, which had been one of his academic specialties.
 Justice Clarence Thomas took a different approach at his confirmation hearings in 1991. He said his earlier writings would not influence his work as a justice. ''When one becomes a judge, it's an amazing process,'' he said. ''You want to be stripped down like a runner.''
 It is possible to be too candid, as Judge Robert H. Bork learned in giving the nation a guided tour of his judicial philosophy in 1987, which included a narrow understanding of the right to privacy and the scope of the First Amendment. ''He was honest and forthcoming, and it was a suicide mission,'' said Steven Lubet, a law professor at Northwestern. ''It was self-immolation.'' The Senate rejected Judge Bork's nomination.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 30, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 12 about strategies that Judge Sonia Sotomayor might employ in her confirmation hearings misspelled the surname of an advocate who urged Democrats to question the judge on abortion, and misidentified her advocacy group. She is Nancy Northup, not Northrop, and she is president of the Center for Reproductive Rights, not the Center for Reproductive Freedom.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judge Sonia Sotomayor on Capitol Hill last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Final preparations are under way in the Senate room where Judge Sotomayor's nomination hearing will begin on Monday. Senators are expected to start questioning her on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) CHART: How the Justices Answered: An analysis of Senate confimation hearings of the nine justices who sat on the Rehnquist court, from 1994 to 2005, shows that the nominees were more likely to avoid stating opinions when asked about cases that involved people's right to privacy and the court's jurisdiction. The analysis contains only instances where the cases were named and where the nominees responded with one of these three types of responses.
A look at how some of the justices in the more recent court answered questions about two of the cases: Brown v. Board of Education
Roe v. Wade (Sources: Lori A. Ringhand, a law professor at the University of Georgia (chart)
 the Senate (transcripts of hearings))(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (77%); WRITERS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); ABORTION (66%); LGBT RIGHTS (66%); HISTORY (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (59%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (90%); JOHN ROBERTS (88%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



357 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Welcome Back, Son. Now Don't Forget Us.

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
When President Obama delivered his Inaugural Address six months ago, there was a line in it that many Africans felt was written specifically for them -- a kind of shout out across the Atlantic that the new, young president had not forgotten the fatherland.
 ''To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent,'' the new president said, ''know that you are on the wrong side of history.''
 This, of course, could apply to a large chunk of the world. But in Africa, where Big Men still rule for decades, and corruption leaves the children sick and the schools bare, and government soldiers rape and kill with impunity, those words seemed to have extra resonance. Olara A. Otunnu, a former Ugandan foreign minister, remembered how that single line from the inaugural speech was ''cheered throughout Africa and people were texting it to each other over their phones.''
 ''People were saying, 'Our son is there, in the White House, God bless us.' '' 
 On Friday, when President Obama stepped off Air Force One in Ghana for his first presidential visit to sub-Saharan Africa, it was clear he was stepping onto a continent of stratospheric expectations. He was mobbed at the airport by drummers and dancers and seemingly the entire Ghanaian government, as if his arrival were a long-awaited homecoming. 
 In a way, it was. And it will be extremely interesting to see how Mr. Obama, who is celebrated for his coolness, his detachment and his hyper-rational outlook, manages all this hype.
 After all, he is only human, despite what the ubiquitous, savior-like posters on the back of African buses might lead people to think. And he has a portfolio of problems to solve with more obvious American interests, like two wars, Iran's nuclear ambitions and the economy.
 But talk about hitting the reset button, in a place where it could really matter. There is no denying that Mr. Obama, by the sheer dint of his Kenyan heritage, coupled with his progressive politics, his youth and his seemingly intuitive grasp of how people across the world interconnect, has an unprecedented opportunity to rewrite the America-Africa equation.
 Still, how to get involved? And when?
 P. L. O. Lumumba, a leading anticorruption activist in Kenya, said that the masses were ready to line up behind Mr. Obama and that he should use his incredible bully pulpit to pressure corrupt governments to reform themselves. This wouldn't have to cost a lot of money. The audience is there. All that needs to be crafted is the message.
 ''The Obama administration should be tough as tough can be,'' said Mr. Lumumba, who is named after one of the leading lights of Africa's independence era, Patrice Lumumba, a Congolese hero who was assassinated in 1961 with the help of the C.I.A. Mr. Lumumba's namesake brings up a compelling point. Mr. Obama spoke of the ''wrong side of history.'' Guess who was often on the wrong side of African history? 
 Take Congo, where American officials during the cold war backed the kleptomaniac dictator, Mobuto Sese Seko, for decades. Or Somalia, where the United States bungled a huge relief mission in the 1990s, setting the stage for the chaos there today and leading the Clinton administration to inaction over the Rwandan genocide, which cost one million lives while the whole world watched.
 Clearly, Mr. Obama has not forgotten Rwanda. In a news conference in Italy before he left for Ghana on Friday, he said: ''There are going to be exceptional circumstances in which I think the need for international intervention becomes a moral imperative, the most obvious example being in a situation like Rwanda where genocide has occurred.''
 He also hinted at a broader Africa agenda, like helping the continent feed itself -- points he punctuated with his own experience in the hardscrabble Kenyan village where his extended family lives. 
 But, as Ghana shows, all is not grim in Africa. ''Part of the reason that we're traveling to Ghana is because you've got there a functioning democracy, a president who's serious about reducing corruption, and you've seen significant economic growth,'' he said at the news conference.
 American officials, like Representative Donald Payne, a New Jersey Democrat who heads the House subcommittee on Africa, insist that Africa policy will now be more nuanced. ''The whole thing can't be the U.S.'s war against terror, whatever that was,'' Mr. Payne said. Instead, he predicts the Obama administration will ''concentrate on things that would prevent terror, like higher education.''
 Africans have always had divergent views on America, Mr. Otunnu said. On the one hand, Africans idolized the United States as the land of opportunity and unimaginable wealth, the place they could hope one day to see with their own eyes, or better, to live in. They welcomed initiatives like the billions of dollars President George W. Bush spent fighting AIDS. On the other hand, the United States also evoked the dictators it had supported, and what were seen as harsh, neocolonial policies.
 But with Mr. Obama in office, Mr. Otunnu said, ''that changed suddenly overnight. The U.S. now has a very different meaning to Africans.''
 Some of this, of course, is that Barack Obama is seen as kin. But there's also the fact that he was an underdog in a fierce campaign and a black man elected in a white country, validation that America was indeed the land of opportunity. More than anything, his triumph served as a sharp contrast to a continent where name, class and ethnicity are still destiny, and, just in case destiny is ever interrupted, where many elections are still blatantly rigged. 
 The issues that many Africans are urging Mr. Obama to push -- like more freedom, more democracy, less dictatorship, less corruption -- are issues that previous American administrations have tried to push. In many cases, for example in Kenya or Zimbabwe, the American government must step gingerly, pressing reluctant leaders to implement reforms that the vast majority of people support. 
 Often, this is a complicated dynamic. Most of the American diplomatic corps are white and thus open to the brand of attack that bashes any criticism from white men as neocolonial meddling. Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's dictator, remains a virtuoso at playing that game. 
 But with Mr. Obama, this won't wash. Or at least, not as well.
 ''He's not your typical Anglo-Saxon,'' Mr. Lumumba said. Until this trip to Ghana, President Obama had stayed away from Africa. Darfur continues to be a mess and Congo a bloodbath, but Mr. Obama has said relatively little about either. His trip to Ghana is only a one-night stop.
 But Mr. Otunnu said that Africa can wait. It's how the traditional African chief works.
 ''He meets, he consults and then he decides,'' Mr. Otunnu said. ''The chief doesn't rush.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HIGH HOPES: Presidents Obama and John Atta-Mills of Ghana were cast as superheros in the preparations for the Obama visit this weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANE HAHN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); TEXT MESSAGING (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) AFRICA (96%); GHANA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UGANDA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



358 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Defending Agenda, President Urges Public Patience on Economy

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama is stepping up efforts to maintain public support for his agenda as rising unemployment presents him with the biggest test of his political strength since taking office.
 Faced with an economic downturn that has proved deeper than the White House initially projected, Mr. Obama asked Americans on Saturday to remain patient, arguing that his $787 billion stimulus plan had saved the economy from collapse and put it on a gradual course to recovery. 
 ''As a result of the swift and aggressive action we took in the first few months of this year, we've been able to pull our financial system and our economy back from the brink,'' he said, deflecting calls for a new round of stimulus spending and saying that his plan was intended to work not in a few months but over two years. 
 Facing an array of challenges on Capitol Hill and concern about the huge budget deficit, he cast his main legislative initiatives, starting with his call for overhauling the health care system, as part of a long-term plan to rebuild the economy on a sounder foundation. 
 Mr. Obama returns to Washington on Sunday from a weeklong trip abroad at a time when Democrats have grown increasingly jittery about the economy and the political risks of the president's ambitious agenda on health care, energy and climate change, financial regulation and other issues. 
 Aides said Mr. Obama's remarks on Saturday, delivered in his weekly radio and video address, were intended to help regain control of the debate. He will follow up with speeches in Michigan and New York in the coming week, and possibly a prime-time news conference. 
 Behind the scenes, the White House is working to calm nervous lawmakers. Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, urged House Democrats in a private meeting earlier in the week to take note of polls showing that Democrats were in much stronger shape than Republicans on the issues of taxes and economy. 
 Mr. Emanuel assured them, according to those attending, that the White House ''has their back'' as they are being asked to take tough votes. 
 ''We have to fly through a little turbulence,'' said David Axelrod, one of Mr. Obama's senior advisers. ''But the important thing is to keep going, understand where you are headed and not lose heart in the middle of the journey.''
 Still, the shifting environment threatens to make it harder for Mr. Obama to rustle up votes from nervous Democrats who, unlike Mr. Obama, have to run for re-election next year. Some polls have found a slight softening in support for Mr. Obama and his economic proposals nationally and, potentially more worrisome for Democrats, erosion in battleground states including Ohio. ''It makes everything a little harder,'' said Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat who will be on the ballot next year. 
 Representative Jason Altmire, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said: ''Everyone is concerned -- you want it to be better. I think everyone realizes this was a long-term process. We are digging out of a deep hole.''
 And Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 ranking Democrat, said that the complications from persistent weakness in the economy were ''probably the most serious challenge we as Democrats face.''
 Republicans said they sensed a new vulnerability in Mr. Obama. They have been visibly energized as they argue that his stimulus plan was costly and ineffective and that his health care plan will mean tax increases and more government bureaucracy. 
 ''While the president's personal numbers are still good, his policies, particularly the spending and the rising debt, are scaring people,'' said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. 
 Mr. Cornyn said he believed that any patience the public had with the Obama economic approach was wearing thin and that Democrats would have difficulty continuing to blame the Bush administration for economic troubles.
 ''Time's up on that one,'' he said.
 From the moment he took the presidency, Mr. Obama has warned that it could take years to get the economy back on track, and most polls showed that Americans were prepared to give him time. 
 The worsening economy could test just how much time Americans are willing to give him, particularly if the unemployment rate, now 9.5 percent, the highest since 1983, breaks 10 percent. Most economists anticipate that the unemployment rate will reach double digits this year. 
 And some politically critical states have already reported that unemployment has broken 10 percent. Ohio hit 10.8 percent in May. Florida, Indiana and Michigan are already well above that threshold while other states are approaching it. That could make it much more difficult to persuade conservative Democrats in those states, already worried about challenges from Republicans next year, to cast votes for legislation like the health care or climate-change bill, particularly if these measures include some form of tax increases.
 In one sign of this, three of the five House Democrats from Indiana, which reported an unemployment rate of 10.6 percent in May, voted against the climate-change measure backed by the White House when it passed by a narrow margin on the House floor last month.
 House leaders signaled on Friday night that they would seek a vote on raising taxes by $550 billion over 10 years on the wealthiest Americans to help pay for the health care overhaul, a move that could put many Democrats in competitive districts in a difficult position.
 A slow economic recovery would mean a further downturn in government revenues, which in turn could increase the size of the deficit as Mr. Obama is pushing for more spending. Historically, the deficit has been a potent issue with independent voters in particular, and it is already projected to remain at record levels for years to come.
 In an interview, Mr. Emanuel criticized Republicans for assailing the stimulus package and said voters understood the depth of the problem and how much time it would take to turn around. 
 ''I think the public knows three things: We inherited a total mess; we're working hard on it; and we're not going to get out of it overnight,'' he said. ''Here's the deal: The key to what this year is about is rescuing the economy from falling off the cliff and trying to put in place the building blocks of recovery.''
 Still, Mr. Obama's aides acknowledged that they had only limited time, and that lawmakers might have less patience than voters. As a rule, voters' views of the state of the economy tend to become cemented six months before Election Day. 
 ''Nervousness is the natural state of politicians,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''But the truth is on all of this stuff, the real risk is doing nothing. ''
 Democrats said they did not relish the prospect of heading out to face voters if things have not begun turning around. 
 ''People are mad, angry,'' said Representative Allen Boyd, a moderate Florida Democrat. ''When you have times like that, everybody gets in a foul mood. It is rough for an elected official to run in that kind of environment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Public backing of the Obama agenda is fading, says Senator John Cornyn, a Republican.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS)
 President Obama, in his weekly radio and video address, said that action this year had pulled the economy ''back from the brink.''(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (59%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (58%); JOHN CORNYN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



359 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Criticism of Afghan War Is on the Rise in Britain

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Just as President Obama's plan to sharply increase American troop strength in Afghanistan gets into high gear, Britain's involvement in the war has come under the fiercest criticism yet at home as a result of a steep increase in British casualties, including the deaths of 15 soldiers in the past 10 days.
 The latest losses are the heaviest British forces have suffered in any comparable period since the 1982 Falklands war. With the Defense Ministry's announcement of eight soldiers' deaths on Friday, Britain's toll in Afghanistan is now 184 killed, five more than its total losses in Iraq, where Britain's combat commitment ended this spring.
 The deaths have generated grim images that have led the nightly television news, of slate-gray transport aircraft carrying coffins landing at a military air base in Wiltshire and being driven slowly in hearses past crowds lining the high street in Wootton Bassett, a nearby town. When five coffins passed down the street on Friday, on their way to a mortuary in Oxford, women wailed. 
 Britain's casualties are far lower than those suffered by American forces, who have lost 732 troops in Afghanistan and 4,322 in Iraq, according to icasualties.org, a Web site that monitors the military losses in both wars. 
 But with Britain's far smaller population and troop deployments, the latest deaths -- from a force of 9,000 that makes Britain's the second-largest troop presence in Afghanistan after the United States' -- have been as much of a shock here as the heavy American troop losses in Iraq at the height of that conflict were in the United States.
 Partly because of Britain's 19th-century history of catastrophic military ventures in Afghanistan, when it sought to secure the outer defenses of British imperial rule in India, the government faces an uphill task in rallying public opinion to the current conflict. 
 So far, however, the reaction in Britain has not run to the kind of popular groundswell for withdrawal that President George W. Bush faced when the war in Iraq worsened after his re-election in 2004. 
 Like Mr. Bush, and now President Obama, Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, has argued that Britain has to fight on in Afghanistan as a way of preventing terrorist attacks at home. The Conservatives, the main opposition party, have so far agreed.
 But Mr. Brown is facing an outcry from those who say the government must answer for the growing number of soldiers killed because of what they describe as an underfinanced defense budget, $55 billion this year. Critics say that the insufficient budget has led to a failure to deploy enough troops and to equip them with enough helicopters and enough blast-resistant armored vehicles. 
 Many British soldiers have been killed by roadside bombs, which critics say have taken an unacceptably high toll because the troops have had to track down the Taliban in vehicles, instead of going into combat aboard helicopters. 
 There have been recriminations, too, about the British troops' reliance for transportation on aging, poorly protected Land Rovers from the time of Britain's military involvement in Northern Ireland.
 The criticism has come from the opposition leaders in Parliament and retired British commanders who oversaw earlier stages of the Afghan conflict. American generals, too, have spoken privately about the mismatch between Britain's military commitments and the British forces' manpower and equipment. 
 The Americans say this situation has often contributed to decisions by British commanders in the field to back off from confrontations with the Taliban, or yield ground the British forces have lost soldiers in gaining.
 But perhaps the most damaging recriminations have come from the families of the dead. 
 ''They continue to allow the army to operate in those ridiculous tin- can Land Rovers when they should have been equipped three years ago with American Humvees,'' Tony Phillipson, father of a 29-year-old army captain killed in 2006, told the BBC on Friday. ''The Afghan Army has 4,500 Humvees. Why haven't our soldiers got them?''
 Last week, the political consensus fragmented when Nick Clegg, leader of the opposition Liberal Democrats, used a House of Commons speech to say the government should either finance the war properly, giving the troops the force numbers and equipment they need, or withdraw. ''We can't give them the worst of both worlds -- put them in harm's way, but not give them the backing they need,'' he said. 
 It has been an open secret at Whitehall for years that top generals have been frustrated by being ordered to fight the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as handle overseas peacekeeping commitments, with a budget that is one of the lowest among leading Western nations, at 2.5 per cent of Britain's gross domestic product. 
 With 110,000 regular soldiers, the army is only a fraction of its historic size, yet, critics say, it faces demands more suited to the days when Britain was still a major power.
 Gen. Charles Guthrie, who led British forces as chief of the defense staff until 2001, said on Friday that Mr. Brown's rejection of the army's request for 2,000 more troops in Helmand Province this spring -- a request that was strongly backed by Gen. David H. Petraeus, the American allied commander in Iraq and Afghanistan -- was one reason more soldiers were dying. 
 ''It is time for Gordon Brown to put his money where his mouth is,'' General Guthrie said. ''We have to get serious about this conflict if we're going to do it.''
 Speaking at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Italy on Friday, Mr. Brown said the increase in British casualties during an offensive in Helmand, where Taliban fighters have concentrated a summer offensive of their own, was part of a mission that aimed at breaking ''a chain of terror'' that ran from southern Afghanistan and Pakistan to the streets of Britain, and contributed to the transit bombings in London in 2005. ''Britons today are safer because of the courageous sacrifice of British soldiers in Afghanistan,'' he said.
 But his faltering voice as he predicted further casualties reflected a political reality he could not avoid. Although Mr. Brown voted for Britain's involvement in Iraq in 2003, when he was chancellor of the Exchequer, he made no secret in following years of his profound discomfort with the war, and he moved decisively after he succeeded Tony Blair as prime minister in 2007 to lay down a schedule for British withdrawal, which will be completed later this month.
 But like Mr. Obama, a vigorous opponent of the Iraq war during the Bush years who has become a proponent of a more vigorous American military commitment in Afghanistan, Mr. Brown has made the Afghan conflict his own. On Friday, as often before, he made an unequivocal commitment to staying the course. ''We knew from the start that defeating the insurgency in Helmand would be a hard and dangerous job, but it's a vital one,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The funeral of Maj. Sean Birchall in London. Major Birchall was killed in Helmand Province in Afghanistan on June 19.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE MacGREGOR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); HELICOPTERS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); BUDGETS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GORDON BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



360 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: The Art Of The Comeback

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- How far can a major political party fall?
 It's a question Republicans seem determined to test these days. The party is shut out of power in the White House. In Congress, the Democrats now have enough votes to block a filibuster. Approval ratings for the Republican Party are at near-record lows. Worse still, at a time when Republicans are yearning for someone to lead them back to power, the party's next generation of stars is drawing precisely the wrong kind of attention -- from Sarah Palin's jarring announcement that she was quitting as Alaska's governor to the acknowledgment by Senator John Ensign of Nevada on Thursday that his parents had sent nearly $100,000 to a woman with whom he had had an affair.
 But both political parties have come back from bad situations before. Republicans can look back to the election of 1964 and its aftermath. Lyndon B. Johnson was elected in a historic landslide that delivered huge Democratic majorities -- 295 House seats, 68 Senate seats, and 33 governorships -- and left the Republican Party saddled with the ''extremist'' conservatism of Barry Goldwater and a roster of tired leaders. 
 And yet only two years later, Republicans took back 47 House seats, 3 Senate seats and 9 governorships. Richard Nixon, whose career had seemed finished after he lost races for the presidency in 1960 and California governor in 1962, positioned himself to lead the party to victory in 1968 as Johnson chose not to seek re-election in the face of rising opposition to the Vietnam War, racial turmoil at home and widening divisions within his party. 
 But are those lessons relevant today? Might Republicans be mired in a different and deeper rut, dragged down by an unusual confluence of problems as the party faces an exceptionally potent opponent in Barack Obama? And are the conditions ripe for the kind of return both parties have staged in the past?
 Political comebacks tend to come in two forms. The first is when a party stumbles back into power because of the mistakes by the other side. A classic instance came in 1976, when Watergate enabled Jimmy Carter to win the presidency. 
 The second kind of march back to power, which takes longer but is more enduring, reflects a party's success in coming to grips with changing conditions -- demographic, ideological or both -- and in finding a leader who has mastered the new political terrain. Mr. Nixon did this in 1968, and Bill Clinton did it in 1992.
 Republicans today seem to be fixated on the first form of comeback. Many in the party appear to be biding their time, waiting for Mr. Obama to stumble in one or another of his ambitious plans. This approach banks on growing concerns about the effectiveness of Mr. Obama's stimulus package and about the rising deficit and dire unemployment figures. If conditions worsen, it is indeed possible that dissatisfaction with the Democrats could provide Republicans a chance at a temporary victory -- for instance, picking up a few House seats in next year's midterm elections.
 But this is not the same as securing lasting power, as Democrats learned from Mr. Carter's post-Watergate victory. In the next election he was defeated by Ronald Reagan, who ushered in 12 years of Republican rule in the White House.
 ''The Republican brand was damaged after Watergate -- but it wasn't because of issue problems, it was because of corruption,'' said Steven F. Hayward, the author of the coming ''Age of Reagan: The Conservative Counterrevolution, 1980-1989.'' ''This is worse.''
 ''I think Obama is going to create the opportunity for them,'' he said. ''You already see hesitation about the large deficit he's creating, hesitance about the health care plan. But you can't wait for lightning to strike or good luck for you and bad luck for the other guys.''
 History suggests that for a party to make a lasting comeback it must find new leaders who embody new ideas -- or at least excel at repackaging old ones. 
 And this is where Republicans now face their stiffest test. Even as a party stalwart like Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the party's whip in the House, maintains that most Americans still support the bedrock policies of Republicanism -- smaller government, lower taxes, less regulation -- the party confronts new conditions that the old ideology doesn't address. The growing influence of Hispanic voters, for example, is a major complication for Republicans, who are identified as the anti-immigration party. The party's strained relations with Hispanics is likely to provide a subtext this week when the Senate Judiciary Committee begins its hearings on Judge Sonia Sotomayor, Mr. Obama's Supreme Court nominee. 
 Mike Murphy, a Republican consultant, noted another demographic weak spot: younger voters, who don't share the party's opposition to gay rights.
 ''Some of the stuff that is going to work for us in the short term is not going to work in the long term,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''The heavy lifting we need for a real comeback -- a comeback that would give us majorities and not just slow down Obama -- is going to mean modernizing what conservatism means because the demographics of the party are changing and we are not.''
 But this kind of adjustment can take time, and may meet resistance from the party's old guard. This happened to the Democrats. They needed a decade to rebound from Mr. Reagan's victory. The breakthrough came with a new leader, Mr. Clinton, who guided the party to the center on issues like crime, welfare and the deficit.
 ''We had an interminable debate about whether we should grow our ranks or increase turnout from our base,'' said Bruce Reed, a chief domestic policy adviser in the Clinton White House and an architect of the party's comeback in the 1990s. ''But eventually, after a third straight defeat in which we lost more than 40 states, Democrats realized we weren't going to return from the wilderness unless we tried a fundamentally new approach.''
 Of course, they also had Mr. Clinton -- a young, attractive leader and a politician of unusual gifts. At the moment such a leader is what the Republicans most conspicuously lack. ''It's hazardous to venture a prediction, but I would just say I see no evidence over the horizon that the Republicans have a way to correct their course,'' said Rick Perlstein, a historian whose book ''Nixonland'' chronicles the Republican victories in 1968 and 1972. 
 But American politics is reliably cyclical, and complacency can be the enemy of the majority party. Americans like nothing better than an old-fashioned comeback story. In recent speeches Mr. Clinton has said that Democrats stand on the brink of an era of long-term dominance in American politics. Sound familiar? It should. It was just four years ago that Karl Rove was boasting of an emerging permanent majority for the Republican Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN ENSIGN (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



361 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Obama Delivers Call for Change To a Rapt Africa

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: CAPE COAST, Ghana 

 BODY:
President Obama traveled in his father's often-troubled home continent on Saturday, where he symbolized a new political era but brought a message of tough love: American aid must be matched by Africa's responsibility for its own problems. 
 ''We must start from the simple premise that Africa's future is up to Africans,'' Mr. Obama said in an address televised across the continent. For all its previous sins, he said, ''the West is not responsible for the destruction of the Zimbabwean economy over the last decade, or wars in which children are enlisted as combatants.''
 To build a prosperous future, he said, Africa needs to shed corruption and tyranny and take on poverty and disease. 
 ''These things can only be done if you take responsibility for your future,'' he told Parliament in Accra, Ghana's capital. ''And it won't be easy. It will take time and effort. There will be suffering and setbacks. But I can promise you this: America will be with you every step of the way, as a partner, as a friend.'' 
 The visit of the first African-American president, the son of a onetime Kenyan goat herder, electrified this small coastal nation and much of the region. Thousands of people lined streets, crowded rooftops, packed balconies, climbed trees, leaned out windows, even hung off scaffolding to glimpse his motorcade. 
 His face was everywhere, from billboards to T-shirts to dresses. His name and campaign theme became the refrains of songs played in his honor.
 His one-day stop blended his vision of the future with echoes of the past. He stood in the Door of No Return at Cape Coast Castle, a notorious slave port perched on the windswept sea here where men who looked like him were once held in dungeons until they were marched in shackles to waiting ships. He brought his wife, Michelle, a descendant of slaves, and their daughters, Malia and Sasha. 
 Mr. Obama, rarely one to display emotion, seemed especially sober. He said the castle reminded him of the Buchenwald concentration camp and underscored the existence of ''pure evil'' in the world. 
 ''Obviously, it's a moving experience, a moving moment,'' he said. ''As painful as it is, I think that it helps to teach all of us that we have to do what we can to fight against the kinds of evils that, sadly, still exist in our world.''
 One evil he came here to fight is the pernicious mix of greed, famine and war that has kept Africa down. He delivered a blunt message that from his predecessors might not have been received the same way. Instead, it was cast by aides as hard truths from a loving cousin.
 ''No country is going to create wealth if its leaders exploit the economy to enrich themselves, or police can be bought off by drug traffickers,'' he said. ''No business wants to invest in a place where the government skims 20 percent off the top, or the head of the port authority is corrupt. No person wants to live in a society where the rule of law gives way to the rule of brutality and bribery. That is not democracy, that is tyranny, and now is the time for it to end.''
 Mr. Obama added: ''Africa doesn't need strongmen. It needs strong institutions.''
 The message of responsibility is one that he has conveyed to different audiences, from African-Americans at home to Muslims abroad. In Cairo last month, he said pointedly that even as America needed to better understand the Muslim world, Muslims needed to confront their own anti-American elements. 
 As in Cairo, he used personal history to soften stern language. ''After all,'' the president said, ''I have the blood of Africa within me, and my family's own story encompasses both the tragedies and triumphs of the larger African story. Some of you know my grandfather was a cook for the British in Kenya, and though he was a respected elder in his village, his employers called him boy for much of his life.''
 Mr. Obama's first trip to sub-Saharan Africa as president was his fourth to the continent that has played a distant yet central role in his life. When he first came as a college student, he had little more than a backpack and a train ticket. On Friday, he arrived on Air Force One. 
 But Mr. Obama's ties to Africa barely go beyond biography. He met his father only once as a child, and was raised largely by his white mother and grandparents. He has written about coming to terms with his biracial upbringing, neither a product of African-American culture nor a native son of Africa.
 Despite all the attention, the White House worked to keep his visit relatively low-key. A president accustomed to crowds of hundreds of thousands, Mr. Obama chose instead smaller venues, aware of the chaotic scene when hundreds of thousands of people nearly engulfed President Bill Clinton and injured one another during a 1998 visit.
 Still, the excitement was hard to miss. At a breakfast with dignitaries, Mr. Obama made his way down the center aisle with President John Atta Mills while a reggae artist, Blakk Rasta, crooned in the background: ''Barack, Barack, Barack Obama.''
 An announcer kept up a steady patter of commentary. ''The first black president of the United States!'' he called out. ''Africa meets one of its illustrious sons, Barack Obama.''
 Before his speech to Parliament, the legislators were chanting his old campaign slogan: ''Yes we can! Yes we can!''
 Then Mr. Atta Mills introduced Mr. Obama as a long-lost relative. ''You're welcome. You're welcome,'' Ghana's president declared. ''You've come home.''
 With a functioning democracy that has managed several peaceful transitions of power, this nation of 23 million is the favorite American success story in sub-Saharan Africa. But the choice of Ghana illustrated how few models there are. Both Mr. Clinton and President George W. Bush came here too. By contrast, Mr. Obama bypassed his father's native Kenya, a reflection of the instability plaguing it recently.
 His approach follows that of Mr. Bush, who was widely credited with doing more for Africa than any previous president. Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Bush tried to frame policy by rewarding good governance and building institutions through programs like the Millennium Challenge Corporation, an antipoverty effort that gave Ghana $547 million in 2006. 
 Even Mr. Obama, who typically talks about the problems his administration inherited, said he was ''building on the strong efforts of President Bush'' in Africa. Before flying here, Mr. Obama pressed the world's rich nations to pool $20 billion over three years to fight hunger, not only by delivering food, but also by teaching struggling farmers how to better grow crops.
 He said little about what America would do for Africa, however, focusing instead on what Africa should do for itself. He called on the people of his father's continent to build the sort of society he never saw, prosperous, democratic, honest and healthy.
 ''You can do that,'' he said. ''Yes, you can. Because in this moment, history is on the move.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ghanaians waited Saturday in Cape Coast, Ghana, to see President Obama arrive with his wife, Michelle, and their daughters.
 Mr. Obama spoke at Cape Coast Castle, a former slave port. He said it reminded him of the Buchenwald concentration camp.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A12) MAP: Mr. Obama and his family visited Accra and Cape Coast. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); FAMINE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (98%); GHANA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



362 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: She Broke the G.O.P. and Now She Owns It

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
SARAH PALIN and Al Sharpton don't ordinarily have much in common, but they achieved a rare harmonic convergence at Michael Jackson's memorial service. When Sharpton told the singer's children it was their daddy's adversaries, not their daddy, who were ''strange,'' he was channeling the pugnacious argument the Alaska governor had made the week before. There was nothing strange about her decision to quit in midterm, Palin told America. What's strange -- or ''insane,'' in her lingo -- are the critics who dare question her erratic behavior on the national stage. 
 Sharpton's bashing of Jackson's naysayers received the biggest ovation of the entire show. Palin's combative resignation soliloquy, though much mocked by prognosticators of all political persuasions, has an equally vociferous and more powerful constituency. In the aftermath of her decision to drop out and cash in, Palin's standing in the G.O.P. actually rose in the USA Today/Gallup poll. No less than 71 percent of Republicans said they would vote for her for president. That overwhelming majority isn't just the ''base'' of the Republican Party that liberals and conservatives alike tend to ghettoize as a rump backwater minority. It is the party, or pretty much what remains of it in the Barack Obama era. 
 That's why Palin won't go gently into the good night, much as some Republicans in Washington might wish. She is not just the party's biggest star and most charismatic television performer; she is its only star and charismatic performer. Most important, she stands for a genuine movement: a dwindling white nonurban America that is aflame with grievances and awash in self-pity as the country hurtles into the 21st century and leaves it behind. Palin gives this movement a major party brand and political plausibility that its open-throated media auxiliary, exemplified by Glenn Beck, cannot. She loves the spotlight, can raise millions of dollars and has no discernible reason to go fishing now except for self-promotional photo ops.
 The essence of Palinism is emotional, not ideological. Yes, she is of the religious right, even if she winks literally and figuratively at her own daughter's flagrant disregard of abstinence and marriage. But family-values politics, now more devalued than the dollar by the philandering of ostentatiously Christian Republican politicians, can only take her so far. The real wave she's riding is a loud, resonant surge of resentment and victimization that's larger than issues like abortion and gay civil rights. 
 That resentment is in part about race, of course. When Palin referred to Alaska as ''a microcosm of America'' during the 2008 campaign, it was in defiance of the statistical reality that her state's tiny black and Hispanic populations are unrepresentative of her nation. She stood for the ''real America,'' she insisted, and the identity of the unreal America didn't have to be stated explicitly for audiences to catch her drift. Her convention speech's signature line was a deftly coded putdown of her presumably shiftless big-city opponent: ''I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a community organizer, except that you have actual responsibilities.'' (Funny how this wisdom has been forgotten by her supporters now that she has abandoned her own actual responsibilities in public office.)
 The latest flashpoint for this kind of animus is the near-certain elevation to the Supreme Court of Sonia Sotomayor, whose Senate confirmation hearings arrive this week. Prominent Palinists were fast to demean Sotomayor as a dim-witted affirmative-action baby. Fred Barnes of The Weekly Standard, the Palinist hymnal, labeled Sotomayor ''not the smartest'' and suggested that Princeton awards academic honors on a curve. Karl Rove said, ''I'm not really certain how intellectually strong she would be.'' Those maligning the long and accomplished career of an Ivy League-educated judge do believe in affirmative-action -- but only for white people like Palin, whom they boosted for vice president despite her minimal achievements and knowledge of policy, the written word or even geography. 
 The politics of resentment are impervious to facts. Palinists regard their star as an icon of working-class America even though the Palins' combined reported income ($211,000) puts them in the top 3.6 percent of American households. They see her as a champion of conservative fiscal principles even though she said yes to the Bridge to Nowhere and presided over a state that ranks No.1 in federal pork.
 Nowhere is the power of resentment to trump reason more flagrantly illustrated than in the incessant complaint by Palin and her troops that she is victimized by a double standard in the ''mainstream media.'' In truth, the commentators at ABC, NBC and CNN -- often the same ones who judged Michelle Obama a drag on her husband -- all tried to outdo each other in praise for Palin when she emerged at the Republican convention 10 months ago. Even now, the so-called mainstream media can grade Palin on a curve: at MSNBC's ''Morning Joe'' last week, Palin's self-proclaimed representation of the ''real America'' was accepted as a given, as if white rural America actually still was the nation's baseline.
 The Palinists' bogus beefs about double standards reached farcical proportions at Fox News on the sleepy pre-Fourth Friday afternoon when word of her abdication hit the East. The fill-in anchor demanded that his token Democratic stooge name another female politician who had suffered such ''disgraceful attacks'' as Palin. When the obvious answer arrived -- Hillary Clinton -- the Fox host angrily protested that Clinton had never been attacked in ''a sexual way'' or ''about her children.''
 Americans have short memories, but it's hardly ancient history that conservative magazines portrayed Hillary Clinton as both a dominatrix cracking a whip and a broomstick-riding witch. Or that Rush Limbaugh held up a picture of Chelsea Clinton on television to identify the ''White House dog.'' Or that Palin's running mate, John McCain, told a sexual joke linking Hillary and Chelsea and Janet Reno. Yet the same conservative commentariat that vilified both Clintons 24/7 now whines that Palin is receiving ''the kind of mauling'' that the media ''always reserve for conservative Republicans.'' So said The Wall Street Journal editorial page last week. You'd never guess that The Journal had published six innuendo-laden books on real and imagined Clinton scandals, or that the Clintons had been a leading target of both Letterman and Leno monologues, not to mention many liberal editorial pages (including that of The Times), for much of a decade. 
 Those Republicans who have not drunk the Palin Kool-Aid are apocalyptic for good reason. She could well be their last presidential candidate standing. Such would-be competitors as Mark Sanford, John Ensign and Newt Gingrich are too carnally compromised for the un-Clinton party. Mike Huckabee is Palin-lite. Tim Pawlenty, Bobby Jindal -- really? That leaves the charisma-challenged Mitt Romney, precisely the kind of card-carrying Ivy League elitist Palinists loathe, no matter how hard he tries to cosmetically alter his history as a socially liberal fat-cat banker. Palin would crush him like a bug. She has the Teflon-coated stature among Republicans that Romney can only fantasize about.
 Were Palin actually to secure the 2012 nomination, the result would be a fiasco for the G.O.P. akin to Goldwater 1964, as the most relentless conservative Palin critic, David Frum, has predicted. Or would it? No one thought Richard Nixon -- a far less personable commodity than Palin -- would come back either after his sour-grapes ''last press conference'' of 1962. But Democratic divisions and failures gave him his opportunity in 1968. With unemployment approaching 10 percent and a seemingly bottomless war in Afghanistan, you never know, as Palin likes to say, what doors might open.
 It's more likely that she will never get anywhere near the White House, and not just because of her own limitations. The Palinist ''real America'' is demographically doomed to keep shrinking. But the emotion it represents is disproportionately powerful for its numbers. It's an anger that Palin enjoyed stoking during her ''palling around with terrorists'' crusade against Obama on the campaign trail. It's an anger that's curdled into self-martyrdom since Inauguration Day. 
 Its voice can be found in the postings at a Web site maintained by the fans of Mark Levin, the Obama hater who is, at this writing, the No.2 best-selling hardcover nonfiction writer in America. (Glenn Beck is No.1 in paperback nonfiction.) Politico surveyed them last week. ''Bottomline, do you know of any way we can remove these idiots before this country goes down the crapper?'' wrote one Levin fan. ''I WILL HELP!!! Should I buy a gun?'' Another called for a new American revolution, promising ''there will be blood.''
 These are the cries of a constituency that feels disenfranchised -- by the powerful and the well-educated who gamed the housing bubble, by a news media it keeps being told is hateful, by the immigrants who have taken some of their jobs, by the African-American who has ended a white monopoly on the White House. Palin is their born avatar. She puts a happy, sexy face on ugly emotions, and she can solidify her followers' hold on a G.O.P. that has no leaders with the guts or alternative vision to stand up to them or to her.
 For a week now, critics in both parties have had a blast railing at Palin. It's good sport. But just as the media muttering about those unseemly ''controversies'' rallied the fans of the King of Pop, so are Palin's political obituaries likely to jump-start her lucrative afterlife. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); CURRENCIES (66%); RELIGION (60%); DEVALUATION (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (90%); SARAH PALIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2009



363 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: No Swagger Like 'Borat,' But 'Bruno' Opens on Top

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
''Bruno'' is no ''Borat.''
 Despite the best efforts of Universal Pictures and Sacha Baron Cohen to will their gay-themed ''Bruno'' into a cultural and financial juggernaut akin to Mr. Baron Cohen's ''Borat,'' the new film's so-so opening over the weekend indicates it will fall short of the goal.
 The results look impressive on the surface. The R-rated ''Bruno'' was No. 1 in North American theaters over the weekend with estimated ticket sales of $30.4 million, according to box office tracking services. ''Borat,'' which carried the formal subtitle ''Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan,'' opened to $26.5 million in 2006 (or about $28 million when adjusted for inflation) and went on to gross $128.5 million domestically. 
 The problem is that ''Bruno'' was released in 2,756 theaters in North America -- over three times as many as the number of theaters in which ''Borat'' played initially -- but failed to increase its opening tally accordingly. Put another way, ''Bruno'' had a per-theater average of $11,040; ''Borat's'' average was $31,607 its opening weekend. So interest in ''Bruno'' was comparatively soft.
 Universal urgently needs ''Bruno'' to become a substantial hit. The studio, part of NBC Universal, which is owned by General Electric, has stumbled at the summer box office, something that Hollywood expects from time to time but that corporate owners do not.
 After disastrous results for its ''Land of the Lost'' and an arduous road to profitability for its ''Public Enemies,'' Universal has become a hot subject of speculation in the movie capital. (The studio considers ''Public Enemies'' a hit, as it is performing on par with expectations domestically and outperforming overseas.) Does a management shake-up lie ahead? Spokeswomen for the company have brushed such chatter aside as rubbish. 
 Universal returns to bat on July 31 with ''Funny People,'' an R-rated comedy starring Adam Sandler that was written and directed by Judd Apatow. The movie is being marketed as a romp akin to Mr. Apatow's highly successful ''Knocked Up,'' but ''Funny People'' tackles more grown-up subject matter -- the central character has a terminal illness -- that could prove a turnoff to some comedy fans.
 The studio on Sunday sought to focus attention on the global performance of ''Bruno.'' In eight of the biggest markets overseas ''Bruno'' sold $20 million more in tickets. The film will open in more countries in the coming weeks, but Universal does not control those rights.
 ''We are all so pleased with the result, which tells us this is going to be a very, very profitable movie for us,'' said Nikki Rocco, Universal's president for domestic distribution. But how much gas does ''Bruno'' have left in its tank? ''I wish I had tea leaves, but I just don't,'' she said.
 ''The film will be very profitable for the studio,'' a company spokesman wrote in an unusually forceful morning e-mail message to reporters. Universal said it paid $42.5 million for the distribution rights to ''Bruno.'' (''Borat'' cost 20th Century Fox about $18 million; Fox bid on the rights to ''Bruno'' but dropped out as the price rose.)
 For the weekend ''Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs'' (Fox) sold an estimated $28.5 million in tickets for second place and a new cumulative total of $120.6 million. ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen'' (Paramount) continued to show impressive traction, placing third with an estimated $24.2 million ($339.2 million total).
 ''Public Enemies'' was fourth with $14.1 million ($66.5 million) while ''The Proposal'' (Disney) clung to the Top 5 with $10.5 million ($113.8 million).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMEDY FILMS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



364 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include retail sales for June, the Producer Price Index for June and business inventories for May (Tuesday); the Consumer Price Index for June, industrial production and capacity utilization for June and the minutes of the June 24 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (Wednesday); the Philadelphia Federal Reserve manufacturing index for April (Thursday); and housing starts for June (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from CSX (Monday); Goldman Sachs, Intel, Johnson & Johnson and Yum Brands (Tuesday); Abbott Laboratories, AMR and Gannett (Wednesday); Biogen Idec, Google, Harley-Davidson, I.B.M., JPMorgan Chase, Marriott International, Nokia, Novartis and Safeway (Thursday); and Bank of America, Citigroup, General Electric and Mattel (Friday).
 IN THE COURTS A trial is to begin in Miami on whether the United States government can force UBS to disclose the identities of 52,000 American holders of private accounts (Monday).
 Marc S. Dreier, above, a New York lawyer who pleaded guilty to charges related to fraud and money laundering in a scheme to sell bogus promissory notes, is to be sentenced (Monday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency, and the House Commerce Committee conducts a hearing on consumer protection (Tuesday).
 Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, testifies before a House subcommittee about the agency's agenda (Tuesday).
 The House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing on the banking industry's views on regulatory reform (Wednesday).
 Henry M. Paulson, the former Treasury secretary, is expected to testify before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform about the government's role in Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch (Thursday).
 The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on the prevention of home foreclosures (Thursday). 
 A House Financial Services subcommittee conducts a hearing on the role of the Fed in consumer protection (Thursday).
 GEITHNER'S TRIP The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, begins a trip to Britain, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and France to discuss efforts to stabilize the global economy (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); SENTENCING (72%); LAWYERS (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); DEBT NOTES (69%); COUNTERFEITING (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (83%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (70%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); NOVARTIS AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); ABT (SWX) (83%); ABT (NYSE) (83%); ABT (LSE) (83%); ABL (FRA) (83%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (71%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); MAR (NYSE) (70%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); NVS (NYSE) (56%); NOVN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (71%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



365 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW TANGLEWOOD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Levine Leads Young Musicians Into Wagnerian Territory

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

DATELINE: LENOX, Mass. 

 BODY:
It is no slight to the Boston Symphony Orchestra to say that some of the most enjoyable evenings here at the Tanglewood Festival, which it owns and operates, happen in the players' absence. The orchestra has had such success with its summer residencies here over the decades that it has spawned first-class programs -- like the Tanglewood Music Center, a teaching academy, and the Tanglewood Festival Chorus, now a year-round partner -- which it rightly likes to show off.
 So the outing on Saturday evening -- with James Levine, the music director of the Boston Symphony and the Metropolitan Opera, conducting the chorus; vocal fellows of the center as well as established opera singers; and the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra in a concert performance of the two-hour third act of Wagner's ''Meistersinger von Nurnberg'' -- shaped up as something special. And it was, chiefly because of the increasingly assured and inspired playing of those young instrumentalists under Mr. Levine's knowing hand. 
 Beforehand Mark Volpe, the Boston Symphony's managing director, described the scene at the first rehearsals: Having just scored a resounding success with Sibelius's Second Symphony conducted by Herbert Blomstedt, the players, faced with an altogether woollier mammoth, didn't know where to start. But over two weeks Mr. Levine -- aided by Raymond Gniewek, a former longtime concertmaster at the Met, who sat in the second stand of violins -- coaxed them gradually into the Wagnerian realm. 
 Much the same seemed to happen on Saturday, as the players, especially the strings, started tentatively in an act that begins, after all, in medias res, in the subdued aftermath of the riotous end of Act II. But as matters progressed -- with the Mastersinger and cobbler Hans Sachs coaching the young knight Walther von Stolzing for the climactic song contest, which would in the end win Walther the hand of his beloved Eva -- the orchestral fabric grew richer, more coherent and more vibrant throughout its ceaseless flow.
 The cast of professionals was drawn mostly from a Met ''Meistersinger'' of 2007. The veteran James Morris brought the expected dignity and reserve to Sachs, a taxing role even shorn of two acts, but his tone was often dry and grainy, and his pianissimo ascents proved perilous. More surprising, Hei-Kyung Hong too sounded a bit worn and frail as Eva and conveyed the text hardly at all.
 Johan Botha brought real metal to the punishing role of Walther, even if it was more steel than gold. Matthew Polenzani was attractive as Sachs's apprentice, David, and Hans-Joachim Ketelsen was lively and engaging as the pedantic town clerk Sixtus Beckmesser.
 That role is widely thought to carry overtones of Wagner's anti-Semitism, just as this third act -- for all its lofty contemplation of the connections among madness, dreams and creativity -- distills his jingoism in a vision of shining glory. But even Wagner, in his ''complete works of art,'' could not control everything, at least in an outdoor setting.
 The act takes place on a presumably lovely June day -- the 24th, the Christian feast of John the Baptist -- but the New England weather gods, showing slim respect for Sachs's ''holy German art,'' saw fit simply to reprise this June's thunderous torrents in the Berkshires. The start of the performance was delayed some 20 minutes by what an announcement called ''the challenges presented by the weather.''
 Not that those are anything new. In recent seasons they have included smaller turnouts on the often boggy lawn and the loss of some 30 huge trees on festival properties to a freak wall of tornadolike wind. When asked how the orchestra is faring financially amid the general economic difficulties today, Mr. Volpe responded first, ''Tell me what the weather is going to be at Tanglewood.''
 Don't ask.
 The Boston Symphony Orchestra season at Tanglewood continues through Aug. 23 in Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, bso.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Levine conducting the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL J. LUTCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Johan Botha in ''Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg'' at the Tanglewood Festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL J. LUTCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



366 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: UBS and U.S. Ask for Delay To Help Settle A Tax Case

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Swiss bank UBS and United States federal prosecutors sought on Sunday to delay a hearing scheduled for Monday so the two sides could try to settle their closely watched dispute over the release of names of wealthy American clients of the bank who are suspected of offshore tax evasion.
 But the postponement request, made in a joint legal filing in a federal court in Florida, came amid fresh threats by the Justice Department that it might impose financial sanctions on UBS and possibly indict the bank should it continue to refuse to disclose the names if required to do so by a judge. 
 ''UBS has not yet faced all the consequences of its illegal conduct in the United States,'' said a Justice Department filing in the case on Sunday.
 The two sides are scheduled to square off on Monday in front of Judge Alan S. Gold of Federal District Court in Miami. The joint filing asked Judge Gold to delay the hearing and reschedule it for Aug. 3 if a settlement was not reached by then. Judge Gold is to decide on the postponement early Monday.
 The dispute between UBS and the United States has escalated into a diplomatic drama and has threatened to pierce the veil of Swiss financial secrecy. UBS and the Swiss government have said they will not disclose client names, even if ordered by a judge, because doing so would violate Swiss laws governing financial secrecy and subject UBS executives to prosecution in Switzerland.
 In February, the Internal Revenue Service, backed by the Justice Department, sued UBS, the world's largest private bank and a pillar of the Swiss economy, to force it to disclose the names of 52,000 wealthy American clients suspected of tax evasion through UBS's offshore private banking division. 
 The civil lawsuit came a day after UBS averted indictment by agreeing to pay $780 million to settle criminal accusations that it had defrauded the I.R.S. by allowing American clients to evade taxes by hiding billions of dollars in income offshore.
 The Justice Department also increased its pressure on UBS on Sunday, saying in a separate filing that it would consider imposing unspecified monetary sanctions on the bank if it failed to turn over the names upon a judge's order. 
 In the same memorandum, the Justice Department said failure to comply with an order to release the names might put the bank in breach of its $780 million settlement -- a breach that could pave the way for prosecutors to indict UBS. 
 While the settlement gives UBS the legal right to contest the names summons, a process that could take years, it also gives federal prosecutors the right to indict UBS, after consulting the Federal Reserve, if UBS has exhausted its appeals and still refuses to turn over the names. UBS has raised the possibility of global financial instability if the case is not resolved.
 The Swiss government said last week that it would block UBS from turning over the names, but the Justice Department memo said ''a blocking order could impact the deferred prosecution agreement entered into by UBS with the support and assistance of the Swiss government.''
 The joint filing asking to reschedule Monday's hearing was the first acknowledgment by the Justice Department that the two sides were negotiating an out-of-court settlement. 
 The Justice Department said on Sunday that any settlement ''would necessarily include a provision requiring UBS to provide the Internal Revenue Service information on a significant number of individuals with UBS accounts.''
 UBS acknowledged for the first time on Friday that a settlement, in which it might pay fines, was possible, confirming what a senior government official told The New York Times in June. At the time, the Justice Department denied the report. 
 ''UBS welcomes the announcement that the U.S. and Swiss governments have agreed to negotiations'' aimed at resolving the litigation over client names, the bank said on Sunday.
 In a brief that accompanied the memorandum, the Justice Department wrote that despite the settlement talks, Judge Gold should order UBS ''to comply in full'' with the summons for the names. ''UBS, like any other litigant, would refuse to comply at its peril,'' the memo said. ''After all, the fact that UBS finds itself in a difficult position is completely the result of its own conduct.''
 Stuart D. Gibson, senior litigation counsel in the Justice Department's civil tax division and lead author on the filings, wrote in a brief with the memorandum that under the $780 million settlement, UBS understood that the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, a regulatory agency, knew that it had to issue an order allowing UBS to turn over certain client names. 
 Mr. Gibson said, ''Neither UBS nor Switzerland can cite even one case where a person was prosecuted or convicted in Switzerland for disclosing information at the order of a foreign court.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); JUDGES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (98%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (98%); UBS (NYSE) (98%); BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



367 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: 8,000 Federal Forms, 10 Billion Hours, In Spite of Paperwork Reduction Efforts

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Standard Form 152 is not a famous federal form like the IRS 1040. But for more than four decades, it has been assigned the job of standing sentry over other federal forms.
 Agencies that want to create, kill or amend federal forms often have to fill out an SF152, also known as a Request for Clearance or Cancellation of a Standard or Optional Form, or file another form just like it.
 In other words, the SF152 is a federal form that begets other federal forms -- a dispenser from which red tape first flows. 
 Despite the earnest nature of the form's mission, the imperatives set by legislation like the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, and the arrival of the Internet, the SF152 and its gate-keeping counterparts have done little to slow the swelling tide of federal forms. 
 Last year, Americans spent nearly 10 billion hours filling out more than 8,000 different government forms and other official requests for information tracked by the federal budget office. That compares with roughly one billion hours spent on similar paperwork in 1981, which in hindsight looks to have been a refreshingly uncomplicated time.
 ''Jumping up to 10 billion in 20 years'' is no small feat, said David S. Cordray, a statistics professor at Vanderbilt University who oversaw reports on government bureaucracy as a former federal official. ''I wish the stock market had done that.'' 
 Some of the increase is attributable to changes in methodology. But officials are hard-pressed to deny the obvious. ''The general trend over the years has been an expansion of total burden hours,'' said Tom Gavin, deputy associate director for Strategic Planning and Communications in the Office of Management and Budget at the White House.
 Many forms come courtesy of new laws and regulations, and many of them, individually, have their defenders. Other new forms are the products of technological change, like Standard Form 5510, an Authorization Agreement for Preauthorized Payments, which was devised by the Department of Treasury to ...
 Don't ask.
 This year, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, commonly known as the stimulus act, has given birth to oodles of forms to document where infusions of cash are going.
 ''I'm definitely unhappy about the proliferation of forms,'' said Diana Furchtgott-Roth, a senior economist in three Republican administrations. ''But that's why you need someone to oversee the creation of forms. Otherwise, these agencies will be issuing forms left, right and center.'' 
 These days, that someone is likely to be a member of the Forms Policy and Management Team at the General Services Administration, which processes all SF152s. Each is two pages long and requires agencies to answer 27 questions and provide a ''supporting statement'' to justify the need for a new form.
 The SF152 regulates only what are known as ''standard'' or ''optional'' forms, a mere portion of the federal form universe. Just how many standard or optional forms exist is something of a mystery. No one contacted at the Forms Policy and Management Team would say.
 But a federal inventory of forms indicates there are about 350 ''standard'' forms, defined as those that more than one federal agency must use. ''Optional'' forms, of which there appear to be about 150, are those that multiple federal agencies may use.
 Still following?
 O.K. Let's go on. 
 Agencies have some latitude to create their own forms, of course. As a result, there appear to be thousands and thousands of ''agency forms,'' of which the Internal Revenue Service's 1040 is but one example.
 Some agencies have their own 152-like forms, designed to ensure that the forms they mint and print for internal purposes also pass muster. The General Services Administration calls its version a Request for Forms Management Services -- Form 2192 for short. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has its Form 160, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology has its Form 66. 
 Since the days of Jimmy Carter, both Democratic and Republican presidents have vowed to curb the paper-shuffling. Printers, who do the heavy lifting when bureaucrats dream up new forms, say Republicans tend to spawn defense-related forms while Democrats breed those tied to social programs.
 ''As a Republican, I love it when the Dems run the White House and Congress,'' said William A. Gindlesperger, a consultant to the commercial printing industry, ''because they love to print.'' 
 When it passed the Government Paperwork Elimination Act in 1998, Congress encouraged the use of online forms. The law has been credited with reducing paperwork, but not forms or the bureaucracy involved in processing it.
 ''Paradoxically, the ability to have the forms electronically has increased the number of forms and made them longer,'' said Ms. Furchtgott-Roth, ''because if you don't have to print them, it's a lot easier to require someone to do it.''
 The General Services Administration rolled out SF152 in May 1967, when it inherited responsibility for standard and optional forms. 
 Agencies that fill it out must furnish the name of a designated ''standard and optional forms liaison representative'' and an alternate. If the form will be used to collect information, or will be the basis of general purpose statistics, agencies must obtain a control number and clearance from the Office of Management and Budget.
 To secure that, an applicant must estimate how great a burden the new form might impose on the public by gauging the expected number of users, the time it might take to fill out the form and the frequency with which the information is collected.
 If officials get confused filling out the two-page SF152, a 23-page instruction booklet offers help with the procedure. 
 Completed SF152s get sent to Room 2218 at General Services Administration headquarters in Washington -- ideally, 60 days ''prior to planned implementation,'' according to the booklet. 
 Agency officials say that they screen for duplication, need and ease of use, and that submissions that meet those tests generally advance. Efforts to correct spelling or grammatical mistakes do not necessitate the filing of an SF152. Design changes do.
 Final approval comes when Reza Motamedamin, the G.S.A.'s Standard Forms/Optional Forms management officer, signs on Line 16a. General Services Administration officials declined over a period of weeks to make Mr. Motamedamin available to answer basic questions about the SF152, one of which could keep Andy Rooney up at night. 
 If the SF152 is the mother of all forms, what gave birth to the SF152?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (88%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TRENDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



368 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: For Goldman, A Swift Return To Lofty Profits

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Most of Wall Street, and America, is still waiting for an economic recovery. Then there is Goldman Sachs.
 Up and down Wall Street, analysts and traders are buzzing that Goldman, which only recently paid back its government bailout money, will report blowout profits from trading on Tuesday.
 Analysts predict the bank earned a profit of more than $2 billion in the March-June period, because of its trading prowess across world markets. If they are right, the bank's rivals will once again be left to wonder exactly how Goldman, long the envy of Wall Street, could have rebounded so drastically only months after the nation's financial industry was shaken to its foundations.
 The obsessive speculation has already begun, along with banter about how Goldman's rapid return to minting money will be perceived by lawmakers and taxpayers who aided Goldman with a multibillion-dollar cushion last fall.
 ''They exist, and others don't, and taxpayers made it possible,'' said one industry consultant, who, like many people interviewed for this article, declined to be named for fear of jeopardizing business relationships. 
 Startling, too, is how much of its revenue Goldman is expected to share with its employees. Analysts estimate that the bank will set aside enough money to pay a total of $18 billion in compensation and benefits this year to its 28,000 employees, or more than $600,000 an employee. Top producers stand to earn millions. 
 Goldman was humbled along with the rest of Wall Street when the financial markets froze last year. As a result, it lost money in the final quarter, a rarity for the bank. Along with other big banks, it was compelled to accept billions of dollars in federal aid, which it paid back last month. 
 Amid the crisis, it also converted from an investment bank to a more regulated bank holding company.
 Goldman declined to comment over the weekend, pending its Tuesday earnings report.
 But if the analysts are right -- and given the vagaries of Wall Street trading, any hard forecast is little more than a guess -- the results will extend a remarkable run for Goldman that was marred only by the single quarterly loss last fall of $2.12 billion. 
 Goldman Sachs is betting on the markets, but the markets are also betting on Goldman: Its share price has soared 68 percent this year, closing at $141.87 on Friday. The stock is still well off its record high of $250.70, reached in 2007.
 In essence, Goldman has managed to do again what it has always done so well: embrace risks that its rivals feared to take and, for the most part, manage those risks better than its rivals dreamed possible. 
 ''It is, in many respects, business as usual at Goldman,'' said Roger Freeman, an analyst at Barclays Capital.
 Traders said Goldman capitalized on the tumult in the credit markets to reap a fortune trading bonds. It profitably navigated a white-knuckled run in stock markets. It bought and sold volatile currencies, as well as commodities like oil. And it reaped lucrative fees from the high-margin business of underwriting stock offerings, which surged this year as other, more troubled financial institutions raced to raise capital.
 Whether Goldman can keep this up is anyone's guess. With so much riding on trading, the risk is that the bank might make a misstep in the markets, or that today's moneymaking trades will simply vanish. The second half of 2009 looks tougher, many analysts say.
 Goldman is not the only bank that appears to be returning to health. JPMorgan Chase is also emerging as one of the strongest players in this new era of American finance. JPMorgan and several other big banks are expected to report strong second-quarter profits as well this week, again in large part based on robust trading results.
 But to a degree unique among its peers, Goldman has turned the crisis to its advantage. Its perennial rival, Morgan Stanley, has refused to gamble in the markets and, as a result, is expected to post a humbling quarterly loss. The giants Citigroup and Bank of America, still in hock to the government, are struggling to regain their footing. Banks like Merrill Lynch, now owned by Bank of America, ran into trouble trying to replicate Goldman's success. 
 Richard Bookstaber, a former hedge fund executive and author of a ''A Demon of Our Own Design,'' wonders if Goldman's resurgence will prompt other banks to push once again into riskier forms of trading, possibly at their peril. 
 ''Someone takes risks and makes money -- maybe they were smart, maybe they were lucky,'' Mr. Bookstaber said. ''But then everyone else feels like they need to take the same risks.''
 While others are shying away from risks, Goldman is courting them. A common measure of risk-taking at Goldman and other banks is known as value at risk, which estimates how much money a firm might lose on a single day. At Goldman, that figure rose by more than 20 percent in the first quarter. Analysts predict Goldman's V.A.R. ran high in the second quarter as well.
 ''It's taking opportune risk that others aren't taking,'' said Charles Geisst, author of the forthcoming ''Collateral Damaged'' and a Wall Street historian. ''They are scooping up all the risks that are available.'' 
 On Wall Street, where money is the ultimate measure, Goldman is both revered and reviled. Its bankers and traders are sometimes referred to as the Bandits of Broad Street. An executive at a rival bank characterized Goldman traders as ''orcs,'' the warlike creatures of Middle Earth in Tolkien's ''The Lord of the Rings.'' 
 Even mainstream America is taking notice. An article about Goldman in a recent issue of Rolling Stone, by Matt Taibbi, characterized Goldman as ''a great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money.'' Goldman dismissed the article as the ramblings of conspiracy theorists. 
 For all its success, Goldman is not impregnable. In addition to the federal money it took last fall, it benefited from the government's bailout of the American International Group, being paid 100 cents on the dollar for its $13 billion counterparty exposure to the insurer, and it has $28 billion in outstanding debt issued cheaply with the backing of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, has described the crisis as ''deeply humbling.'' But his bank bounced back with remarkable speed. In the first quarter, it posted profits of $1.66 billion. Now, the second quarter looks even better. 
 ''They are a trading firm,'' said an executive at rival firm, barely able to hide his jealousy. ''It's what they do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Specialists in New York in April traded Goldman shares, which have soared 68 percent this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP EAST/REUTERS) (pg.A3) CHART: A QUICK RETURN TO PROFITABILITY: After posting a rare loss in the fourth quarter of 2008, Goldman Sachs is poised for a rebound in its latest period. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); COINS & COINAGE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



369 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: A Rising but Doubted Dream on a Reservation

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: EAGLE BUTTE, S.D. 

 BODY:
 At the edge of the remote prairie town called Eagle Butte, just past a fireworks stand, there is construction. Where winter wheat once grew, workers in hard hats now pour the foundations that will cement buildings to dusty earth.
 Perhaps somewhere else this might be just another construction site. But here on the Cheyenne River Sioux Indian Reservation, in what may be the poorest county in the country, people sometimes stand at the edge and watch, as if to convince themselves of at least this promise being kept.
 They come to witness the rising of a health center triple the size of the one it will replace: a tired building whose very bricks, mortared in place long ago by the Army Corps of Engineers, recall displacement and loss. The site will also include dozens of houses to accommodate all the nurses and doctors the reservation expects -- or hopes -- will come.
 ''This right here is your entryway,'' a tribal member named John Hunt says with pride, pointing to some churned-up soil. And here, the expanded dental clinic. And here, the traditional healing room, where those mourning a death will be able to burn sage in a ritual of assisting passage to the next life. 
 Mr. Hunt's thick body is built to take a fall; he spent years as a rodeo cowboy, saddling broncos, before giving it up to work first for the tribal government and then for the contractor developing the site. He understands what this construction represents:
 Better health care. More jobs. The culmination of years of determined advocacy by tribal leaders. And the concrete manifestation of that abstract concept known as federal stimulus money, coming from the even more abstract American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. 
 Even now, with the water tower built and the basement dug, some people here are so accustomed to disappointment that they don't have much trust in the project. ''A lot of disbelief,'' says Mr. Hunt, 37. ''A lot of -- 'I'll believe it when I see it.' ''
 If a place can be reduced to topographical and statistical details, then this is the Cheyenne River Reservation: a 2.9-million-acre swath of plains and prairie, nearly treeless and beautiful in its starkness; home to about 15,000 people, most of them tribal members, and most of them poor. 
 The tribe has endured many indignities over the centuries, including one still fresh in the collective memory. In the 1940s and 1950s, the federal government built the Oahe Dam as one way to harness the powerful Missouri River. In doing so, it inundated more than 100,000 acres of fertile tribal land, washing out a way of life and forcing many families to be moved 60 miles west, to here: an arid railroad outpost soon to lose its railroad.
 The Corps of Engineers built a health center to serve this grassy sprawl of distant towns and often-rutted roads, but as the only one of any size on the reservation, the center could not keep up with the growing population. The tribe began working on a plan for a better, larger operation that would also make it eligible for more money to improve services.
 It clearly had the need, with higher rates of births and deaths, including infant deaths, than the region's non-Indian population. The birthing unit had been closed because of quality-of-care concerns, the bathrooms could not accommodate wheelchairs, and recruiting efforts often died as soon as, say, a nurse from out of town saw the drab efficiency apartments set aside for the staff.
 And there was the familiar matter of location, location. When tribal members require anything more than modest medical attention, they must be taken by ambulance or plane to hospitals far from the reservation -- in Rapid City, S.D., or maybe Bismarck, N.D., both about 180 miles away.
 A few years ago, Mr. Hunt fell off a ladder while holding a nail gun and accidentally shot a nail into his knee. His injury earned him a three-hour ambulance ride to a Rapid City hospital. 
 Some people gradually developed a distrust of the health center, and not only because its brick facade recalled the time of forced relocation. It was understaffed, it had become a patchwork of renovations and additions, and there was nothing native about the place beyond the staff. ''It has no flow,'' Mr. Hunt said.
 Finally, in 2002, the Indian Health Service, the federal agency responsible for providing health care to American Indians and Alaska Natives, approved the proposal for an ''alternative rural hospital,'' with more attractive housing. Architects were soon traveling around the reservation to hear what people wanted, meeting in the bingo halls and community rooms of remote places like Bear Creek and White Horse and Thunder Butte. They especially listened to the elders.
 ''This was not going to be just a brick building,'' Mr. Hunt said.
 Now there was just the small matter of finding the money to pay for it all. So tribal leaders hit the road. For years.
 They divided themselves into teams and took turns visiting the Indian Health Service's headquarters in Rockville, Md., and paying calls to members of Congress in Washington, where they were helped by their senators, Tim Johnson and John Thune. They testified at any hearing anywhere that concerned the health care of Native Americans.
 Along the way, they met tribal leaders from other reservations who were seeking the same financing for the same problem: the woeful inadequacy of the health care promised to American Indians long ago. ''We all have the same disparities,'' said Sharon Lee, the tribal vice chairwoman.
 The tribal leaders made their case effectively, but in Indian Country, progress comes in phases, when money is available. The Indian Health Service works with 562 federally recognized tribes, a great many of them in need, so the project on that old wheat field in Eagle Butte took shape in fits and starts.
 Then, two months ago, there came one of those news releases that seem to belch out incessantly from Washington, often incremental, often self-congratulatory. But this one said the Indian Health Service had allocated $500 million in stimulus funds for Indian health care, including $227 million for two ''shovel ready'' projects: a hospital in Nome, Alaska, and a health center in a place called Eagle Butte, S.D. 
 This $111 million health center will have an American Indian feel; it will be theirs, and not someone else's. It will have a larger emergency room, two beds set aside for births, new medical equipment, and such basic, almost-forgotten amenities as a staff break room. It will also have that healing room, specially ventilated; no longer will mourners have to clog the bottoms of doors with towels when they burn sage.
 But again, this is Indian Country. There are some basic health services the center will not provide; a CT scanner, for example. 
 Thomas Sweeney, an Indian Health Service spokesman, said the decision not to include this equipment was based on a formula that takes into account several factors: staffing, workload and population size. The agency receives slightly more than half the financing it needs, he said, which means ''there's always tough decisions.''
 One step at a time, said Mr. Hunt: the building first, and then more visits to Washington to fight for more improvements -- a CT scanner among them.
 Until then, it remains a three-hour ambulance ride to Rapid City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new health center is being built in Eagle Butte, S.D., on the Cheyenne River Sioux Indian Reservation, where some tribal members say, ''I'll believe it when I see it.''
 John Hunt, a tribal member, works for the contractor developing the site of the health center, which will be three times as large as the one it will replace, left. The new hospital will include a traditional healing room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMIES (71%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); RODEOS (65%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PIERRE, SD, USA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



370 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITICS' CHOICE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: New CDs: Taking Ownership: Cover Song Reconceived

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
DAUGHTRY
 ''Leave This Town''
 (19/RCA)
 Chris Daughtry, again with the cover songs.
 A couple of weeks ago that former ''American Idol'' favorite and current hard-rock holdout released a video of himself performing an acoustic cover of Lady Gaga's ''Poker Face'' at a German radio station. Lady Gaga's original has always sounded like a commentary on gender and power relations, but Mr. Daughtry, aviators blocking his eyes and biceps popping out of his T-shirt, sings it as the statement of brute affection it always threatened to be. From him it's completely free of nuance and compellingly aggressive enough to raise the question: How was this not Mr. Daughtry's song all along? 
 What ''Poker Face'' does have over several of the songs on ''Leave This Town,'' the second album by Daughtry, the band that carries Mr. Daughtry's name and his unmistakable Neanderthal-chic scent, is economy. Wordiness is an unusual turn for a band for which ruthless simplicity has been a calling card. 
 The 2006 Daughtry debut album was a robust celebration of stoicism, hardy even when tender. And Mr. Daughtry is often a tremendous singer, matching the triumphalist impulses of Jon Bon Jovi with the persistent tonal misery of Staind's Aaron Lewis. In the late 1990s not only would Daughtry have been one of the era's best-selling acts but also one of its most emotionally resonant.
 A decade later Mr. Daughtry is an anachronism and plenty content with his blinders. At best ''Leave This Town'' inches beyond its predecessor, deeply tunneled into the hard-rock mainstream but a touch more confident and eclectic. On the first half of the breathable ''Call Your Name'' Mr. Daughtry shelves his growl in favor of unexpectedly warm soul inflections. ''Every Time You Turn Around'' is bolstered by the sturdy drumming of Joey Barnes. Elsewhere the band sticks with the sullen, where it excels, whether cutting off a cancerous relationship (''No Surprise'') or figuring out how to stay in one (''Ghost of Me'').
 In the pop landscape of the last three years Daughtry's aesthetic stubbornness has qualified as innovation: it's one of the few mainstream American rock bands not at all looking to Nashville for a road map or a handout. (When Mr. Daughtry covered Johnny Cash's ''I Walk the Line'' on ''American Idol,'' he performed the smoky version by the rock band Live.) So it's a surprise, near the album's end, to hear ''Tennessee Line,'' a country song in lyric and, nominally, in style, with Vince Gill recruited to sing tepid harmonies. The sweet-voiced Mr. Gill doesn't stand a chance against Mr. Daughtry's gruffness, even in this toned-down incarnation. But still, this is one of the least committed songs on the album: nobody puts Daughtry in the country. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%)

PERSON: LADY GAGA (72%); JON BON JOVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



371 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: China's Detention of Mining Executives Rattles Its Global Industrial Partnerships

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
On July 5, officials from China's Ministry of State Security took four employees of the Anglo-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto into custody here.
 Rio Tinto was not told what happened to the employees; neither were their families. One of the four was a high-ranking executive and an Australian citizen. But the Australian government was also in the dark.
 A few days later, only after Rio Tinto had issued a public statement that said the company did not know why the four had been detained, did an answer come from Beijing: they were being held on charges of stealing state secrets, spying on China and harming the country's interests.
 The allegations, which may be rooted in a pricing dispute, have rocked the global iron ore industry, strained China-Australia relations and could have a chilling effect on foreign businesses doing deals in China. Companies with operations here have been closely watching the case. 
 ''It is a concern for Australians and other foreign businesspeople working in China that this could happen,'' Chris Bowen, Australia's financial services minister, said Sunday on Australia Channel 10's ''Meet the Press'' program. 
 ''It should also be a concern for the Chinese government,'' he said. ''If foreign businesses feel that the degree of uncertainty is high, it will change the way that foreign businesses around the world approach business in China and approach the placement of executives in China.''
 Foreign lawyers here said China's behavior might also invite retaliation, hurting efforts by Chinese companies to invest abroad. Steve Dickinson, a lawyer for Harris & Moure PLLC, said Sunday in a telephone interview from Qingdao that the Rio Tinto case was likely to slow or stall Chinese corporate expansion plans not only in Australia but perhaps the United States and Europe.
 Australian officials have complained about the detentions (three of those held are Chinese citizens), and the lack of formal charges. Over the weekend, Australia's minister of foreign affairs, Stephen Smith, asked for more details on the case. 
 Analysts now say they believe the detentions are tied to an increasingly contentious business quarrel over the price of iron ore, an essential steelmaking ingredient and therefore crucial in China's rapidly ascendant economy, affecting everything from housing costs to auto prices.
 Legal experts say that may be why Beijing says the case involves state secrets.
 As the world's biggest consumer of iron ore, China is highly dependent on mining companies like Rio Tinto, which in the past decade have amassed huge profits in China. That dependence, analysts say, has rankled China's huge state-controlled steel industry.
 ''Chinese steel mills feel vulnerable,'' said Jim Lennon, a London-based steel analyst at Macquarie Group. ''They are the growing demand in the world. They want to lock in sources of supply. And yet, in the worst ever economic downturn, the annual benchmark price is the second-highest it's ever been.''
 Beijing has not said the detentions are tied to iron ore negotiations. But last Friday, China's state controlled media said investigators had evidence that the Rio Tinto employees had passed confidential documents that would have given the company an edge in the negotiations.
 ''China's meeting memos were secretly leaked to Rio Tinto,'' The Economic Observer, a state-controlled Chinese newspaper, reported Friday. ''That included China's bottom-line iron ore price and every steelmaker's inventory, production cost, schedule and manufacturing details.'' 
 The arrests of the four employees came just weeks after China and the three big iron ore producers -- Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Vale Do Rio Doce of Brazil -- failed to reach an agreement on a price for long-term supplies. Stern Hu, the Australian executive detained by China, was one of Rio Tinto's top price negotiators. 
 This year, Chinese steel mills had been seeking a 40 to 45 percent cut from a year earlier. But seeing an economic recovery in sight, producers offered China the same 33 percent cut given to Japan. China rejected it. Now, the price of iron ore is climbing, and China's steel mills are being forced to pay a higher price.
 Chinese steel executives feel particularly aggrieved because they agreed last year to an increase of up to 97 percent and then watched prices tumble with the global economy.
 ''This year, on the China side, the sentiment during the negotiations was soured by last year's huge loss,'' said Zhou Xizeng, a steel analyst at CITIC Securities. ''So China brought that irritation to the negotiation table, and they expected a much lower price.''
 This is the way it has gone in recent years as China has been forced to pay for its voracious demand for raw materials.
 Faced with these soaring costs, China has moved aggressively to acquire assets or invest in overseas mines in Africa, Latin America, Australia and elsewhere. Few resources are as vital to China as iron ore. But because 70 percent of the iron ore China imports comes from the three companies -- Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and Vale -- Beijing has sought to devise a strategy to ensure cheaper supplies.
 One way was to group steel mills together as a negotiating bloc. Another way was to play spoiler.
 In 2007, when BHP Billiton tried to merge with Rio Tinto, Beijing raised objections and worried about an even greater concentration of market power (Rio Tinto rejected BHP's bid).
 Then early last year, Chinalco, a big Chinese company, sought to acquire a stake in Rio Tinto. Later, when Rio's fortunes soured with the global economy, Chinalco sought a larger stake. 
 The entire deal was scuttled last month, however, after a growing number of Australians worried about giving China such control. Instead, Rio Tinto formed an alliance with BHP Billiton, the world's biggest mining company. Around the same time, Rio Tinto, BHP and Vale took a tougher line in the iron ore negotiations. 
 In years past, Chinese officials have complained about iron ore producers' ''manipulating the market'' and forcing prices higher. 
 Analysts say China's Steel and Iron Association, which represents the big steel mills, has repeatedly asked individual mills not to buy from Rio Tinto or other producers during negotiations, giving China an opportunity to secure a deal for lower prices. But time and again, analysts say, China's own steel makers, desperate for iron ore, buy it anyway. 
 Some Australian officials have suggested the detention of the four Rio Tinto employees is China's payback for Rio Tinto's decision to scrap the Chinalco investment or the breakdown in iron ore talks. Regardless of China's motive, some experts say the detentions are a public relations fiasco. 
 ''China has been playing the big spender and hoping things would go their way, but things have not gone their way,'' said David Kelly, a professor of Chinese studies and the director of the China Research Center at the University of Technology in Sydney. ''So some people may be trying to save face because they didn't nail down the resources they should have nailed down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Simon Crean, Australia's trade minister, left, and Kim Carr, minister for innovation, spoke to the news media in Shanghai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (93%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (96%); HARRIS & MOURE PLLC (66%); MACQUARIE GROUP LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (96%); RIO (NYSE) (96%); RIO (LSE) (96%); RIO (ASX) (96%); MQG (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (96%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (96%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (96%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (96%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); AUSTRALIA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



372 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: BLACK-WHITE GAP IN JOBLESS RATE WIDENS IN CITY

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN and MATHEW R. WARREN

 BODY:
Unemployment among blacks in New York City has increased much faster than for whites, and the gap appears to be widening at an accelerating pace, new studies of jobless data have found. 
 While unemployment rose steadily for white New Yorkers from the first quarter of 2008 through the first three months of this year, the number of unemployed blacks in the city rose four times as fast, according to a report to be released on Monday by the city comptroller's office. By the end of March, there were about 80,000 more unemployed blacks than whites, according to the report, even though there are roughly 1.5 million more whites than blacks here.
 Across the nation, the surge in unemployment has cut across all demographic lines, and the gap between blacks and whites has risen, but at a much slower rate than in New York.
 Economists said they were not certain why so many more blacks were losing their jobs in New York, especially when a large share of the layoffs in the city have been in fields where they are not well represented, like finance and professional services. But in those sectors, the economists suggested that blacks may have had less seniority when layoffs occurred. And black workers hold an outsize share of the jobs in retailing and other service industries that have been shrinking as consumers curtail their spending. 
 ''African-Americans have been hit disproportionately hard,'' said Frank Braconi, the chief economist in the comptroller's office. ''The usual pattern is that the unemployment rate among African-Americans tends to be about twice as high as for non-Hispanic whites, but the gap has widened substantially in the city during the past year.''
 Historically, the unemployment rate for blacks has always been higher than for whites. But since the start of the recession, in December 2007, the overall rate has risen by 4.6 percentage points -- driving the black unemployment rate as high as 15 percent in April. The jobless figures among blacks became enough of a national issue that at a White House news conference last month, President Obama was asked what he could do to ''stop the bloodletting in the black unemployment rate.''
 The president said that to help any community, whether it be blacks, Latinos or Asians, he needed to ''get the economy as a whole moving.''
 ''If I don't do that, then I'm not going to be able to help anybody,'' the president added.
 In the first quarter of 2008, the rate of joblessness among blacks nationwide was 8.9 percent, compared with 4.8 percent for whites; in the first quarter of 2009, the rate for blacks had risen to 13.6 percent, while the rate for whites had gone to 8.2 percent. 
 But policy experts and public officials expressed concern over the much sharper trend in New York, where the city's overall unemployment rate hit a 12-year high of 9 percent in May. The jobless rate for all blacks in the city rose to 14.7 percent in the first quarter, up from 5.7 percent in the first quarter of 2008. During the same period, the unemployment rate for white New Yorkers rose only moderately, to 3.7 percent from 3 percent, suggesting that black residents of the city were four times as likely as whites to be out of work, he said.
 At a work force center in the Bronx on Friday, Ahmadi Scruggs, 32, said he was dismissed in April from his job in customer service at a New York bank that cut its payroll after many of the mortgages it made went sour. Mr. Scruggs, who is black and lives in Soundview, in the Bronx, said he did not think that the layoff, which followed a hiring freeze, was racially motivated, but said that it appeared to have a disparate effect on whites and minority workers.
 ''My department was mostly black and Hispanic,'' Mr. Scruggs said. ''Management was mostly white and they didn't get let go. You would think they would trim the fat from the top, not the bottom, because it's the lower-wage workers that do the bulk of the work.''
 Mr. Scruggs, who is married and has three children, said his three-month severance package had run out. Mr. Scruggs said he was trying to have his unemployment benefits extended so that he could begin studying to become a surgical technician. 
 ''I might as well invest in myself for the next year and then get back in the work force,'' he said. 
 Last month, Roger Richardson, who lives in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, left his sales job at a Home Depot store after his hours were cut by more than half. ''I had to find something else because my bills surpassed my salary,'' said Mr. Richardson, who is black.
 The recession has also worsened the unemployment rate in New York among other ethnic groups, although none as sharply as blacks. Among Hispanics, the rate rose to 9.3 percent in the first quarter of 2009 from 6.4 percent in the first quarter of 2008; among Asians and other ethnic classifications, the rate rose to 7.1 percent from 5.5 percent. 
 David R. Jones, president and chief executive of the Community Service Society, which lobbies on behalf of low-income workers, said he did not ''think this recession has gone out equally.''
 ''Low-wage workers and workers who lack skills are really getting hit hard,'' he said. ''These are the workers who are sort of fungible. They lose their jobs very quickly, particularly in retail, the people who move boxes and do unskilled work. There are large numbers of African-Americans in that sector.''
 Manufacturing, which has shed more jobs than any other sector of the city's economy, had become a mainstay for black workers, Mr. Jones said. Government jobs had also become a prime source of solid, stable work for many blacks in the city, he added. But lately there have been cutbacks there, too, as falling tax revenue has forced the paring back of budgets.
 James Parrott, the chief economist for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group, pointed out that employment with the Postal Service in the city has declined by about 2,000 jobs, many of which were held by blacks. City officials have been wringing their hands about the mass firings that have occurred in high-paying industries like financial and legal services, consulting and publishing, but those cutbacks account for less than half of the 108,000-job decline since employment in the city peaked in August.
 In comparing jobs data for the 12 months through April 30 with the previous one-year period, Mr. Parrott found that white New Yorkers had gained jobs while blacks and other minority residents had lost them. He was seeking to compare the recession with the end of the hiring boom that preceded it, though employment did not begin to fall in the city until after the Lehman Brothers investment bank collapsed in September, a full nine months after the recession began to take its toll in other parts of the country.
 Still, Mr. Parrott's analysis painted a stark picture of how uneven the effects have been for whites, blacks and members of other minorities. His figures show that whites gained about 130,000 jobs in the year that ended April 30 over the previous 12 months, but blacks, Hispanics and Asians all lost jobs during that period. Employment fell by about 17,000 jobs for blacks, 26,000 jobs for Hispanics and 18,000 for Asians and other ethnic groups, the data show.
 ''That's a black-and-white employment picture,'' Mr. Parrott said. ''It's like night and day over the 12 months. ''There's a real racial shift taking place in the city's labor market in the past year.''
 Aldumen Gomez said he had firsthand experience with the trend. Mr. Gomez, 25, was a nursing assistant in a Bronx nursing home for more than a year untilit closed in January, he said.
 ''These were the jobs you used to rely on, but now because of all the cuts, it's not like that,'' said Mr. Gomez, who is part Haitian and part Dominican. ''At the company I worked for, the ones who did get to keep their jobs were people at management levels who were mostly white. They were transferred to other nursing homes.''
 Mr. Gomez has been studying political science at night at Baruch College, hoping to go on to law school. But he said he feared that he might not be able to keep paying for school -- and living in student housing in Manhattan -- unless he finds another job soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger Richardson, 47, left his job at Home Depot in June to look for work after his hours were cut by more than half. ''I had to find something else because my bills surpassed my salary,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) CHART: A WIDENING GAP: Compared with national figures, New York City unemployment among blacks has increased more rapidly than for whites. (Sources: NYC Comptroller's Office
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); DISMISSALS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



373 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: L.P.G.A. Will Seek Out New Leader to Chart Its Future

BYLINE: By CHRIS HINE

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa. 

 BODY:
Off-the-course drama overshadowed the United States Women's Open this weekend, when reports surfaced that L.P.G.A. Commissioner Carolyn Bivens was going to step down after the Open amid strong criticism from several players on tour. 
 On Sunday, Juli Inkster, one of the tour's player directors, told reporters that the L.P.G.A. would hire an interim commissioner for the next few months and would conduct a search for a permanent commissioner. 
 ''I think Carolyn's done a lot of great things for our tour, and I think she worked really hard,'' Inkster said. ''But some of the things she tried to do just didn't work, and whether it's her fault or not, it just wasn't working.''
 After the Jamie Farr Owens Corning Classic early this month, 15 of the tour's top players -- including Suzann Pettersen, Lorena Ochoa, Cristie Kerr and Paula Creamer -- signed a letter and submitted it to the L.P.G.A.'s board of directors calling for Bivens to resign. In the lead-up to the Open, players had reportedly been told by their agents and the board not to comment publicly on the matter during the tournament.
 ''This is probably a very crucial time for a new commissioner to step in,'' Pettersen said Sunday. ''There's a big job to do, so it's got to be a pretty qualified person who steps into that position. Until that happens, I don't know who's going to step in. This is a time when the commissioner, or whoever steps in, needs to make some adjustments for the tour for us to survive. We can't keep going like we have been.'' 
 The players were concerned about Bivens's leadership of the tour as it has attempted to survive amid the slumping economy.
 ''We can't really blame her,'' Pettersen said. ''She's done what she's been told, but of course last year has been very tough. I think maybe, I don't know if it's a mistake or not, but maybe the biggest kind of loss has been we haven't adjusted to what the world's kind of facing.''
 Since 2007, seven events have disappeared from the tour's schedule, and only 10 title contracts are signed for the 2010 tour. The tour has also lost the backing of major sponsors, and the status of at least three other events for next year remains unclear. 
 Bivens, 56, drew criticism from the players because she was unwilling to negotiate with sponsors to lower their costs of putting on tournaments. As a result, many sponsors dropped out of the tour, and players thought the economy was not solely to blame. 
 ''Any business, it doesn't matter if it's like financial, a show business, or whatever, business builds on relationship,'' said Pettersen, who added, ''Maybe we've been playing too tough and kind of cutting too many out instead of dropping down on the price and making everybody happy.''
 An official announcement regarding Bivens is expected this week. Bivens also drew criticism for instituting a policy that would have penalized the tour's large number of foreign-born players if they did not learn to speak English. That policy was dropped. 
 Bivens was commissioner since 2005. Her contract was to expire in 2010, but according to Sports Business Daily, she was ''amenable'' to a buyout for the remainder of her contract, which is worth $500,000 a year. 
 ''At the moment I think we have to rebuild,'' Pettersen said. ''I think we players have to get some trust in our leadership again, so we can feel like they're doing what they can to get us up and running again.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%)

COMPANY: OWENS CORNING (56%)

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



374 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 465 words

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 An Open Call
 For Your Concerns
 From City Hall to the kitchen table, cutting back is the catchphrase of the year.
 As City Room has explored the effects in its New York on Less feature, hundreds of readers have weighed in on how the recession has affected crime (or the perception of it), whether the downturn has put a crimp on dating or vacation plans and whether financial strain has prompted parents to reconsider the public-versus-private debate for their children's schooling. 
 Some readers have said the recession might even force them to leave the city. One reader, TJ, wrote, ''Our family's financial math is nearing a point where we'd be better off just about anywhere else on one income than we are remaining here with two incomes.''
 Others are here to stay no matter what. 
 ''The only way I would move out of Harlem is if Manhattan were to sink into the sea or be destroyed by a nuclear bomb,'' wrote Gregory A. Butler. ''And even then, I could always get a rubber raft or a radiation suit, and I'd be just fine.'' 
 What economic issues are on your mind? Would you like to see discussions on finding work, or changes in your social life or your health? Are you thinking of going back to school?
 COMMENTS: Online: Share your suggestions and read others' comments.
 ALSO
 ONLINE
 INTERACTIVE: Reaching Out: For more coverage on the human side of the recession, visit the Living With Less guide, where readers can share their photos, moods and tips for weathering the economic downturn.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Charles Denson, a Coney Island native and historian, will be answering readers' questions about the preservation of this historic area. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.
 Mr. Denson is the author of ''Coney Island: Lost and Found,'' named New York Book of the Year in 2002 by the New York Society Library. A writer, photographer and art director, he began his career in 1971 as a photographer for New York magazine and has since worked as art director for numerous publications. 
 In 1999, he was awarded a Chronicle Journalism Fellowship at the University of California at Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism.
 Mr. Denson is currently the executive director of the nonprofit Coney Island History Project, which is creating an oral history archive and sponsors educational exhibits, school programs and performances. 
 The project operates an exhibit center below the Cyclone roller coaster, where Mr. Denson has curated exhibits including ''Woody Guthrie: The Coney Island Years,'' ''Land Grab: A History of Coney Island Development, 1823-2007,'' and ''Icons: The Landmarks of Coney Island,'' as well as the Coney Island Hall of Fame, honoring local pioneers, leaders and visionaries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Denson, a Coney Island native and historian. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN RHONEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); WRITERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (86%); VISUAL ARTISTS (86%); HISTORY (85%); JOURNALISM (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (68%); HISTORIC SITES (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



375 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Giving Back, by Backpack

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Editors' Note: After this issue, Stuart Elliott starts summer vacation. You'll continue to receive the In Advertising newsletter while he's away, as Jane L. Levere writes the Campaign Spotlight feature. The Q & A and Webdenda are scheduled to return with Stuart, for the Aug. 10 issue.
 It has been many years since pupils and parents heard the clothing-store jingle that used to signal the beginning of the end of summer vacation: ''School bells ring and children sing, 'It's back to Robert Hall again.' '' Today, the resumption of classes is foreshadowed by campaigns for office-supply chains, seeking to sell notebooks, pens, staplers, markers, crayons and other back-to-school merchandise. 
 One of those chains, Staples, has added to its product pitches -- most notably its annual one-cent deals -- a cause-marketing campaign meant to help the millions of American schoolchildren who live in poverty. The campaign, now under way, encourages better-off students to donate 11 ''most-needed'' school supplies, which include index cards, No. 2 pencils, spiral notebooks and loose-leaf paper.
 For the campaign, called Do Something 101, Staples is teaming up with Do Something, a national nonprofit organization aimed at cultivating community service among teenagers. Its Web site promotes itself as ''using the power of online to get teens to do good stuff offline.''
 This is the second year that Do Something and Staples have joined forces for Do Something 101 and the first year that Staples is supporting the campaign with an initiative centered in the social media.
 The social media effort is being created by Mr. Youth, a social marketing agency in New York. Staples is devoting more than $500,000 to the campaign between its charitable contribution to Do Something and its work with Mr. Youth; there will be additional spending to promote the campaign.
 The social media aspects are centered on creating a virtual backpack to be sent to friends, who are to fill them with the 11 school supplies. There is an Adopt a Pack application on Facebook as well as a fan page on facebook.com for Do Something 101.
 ''Do you know that more than 13 million kids just like you can't afford even the most basic school supplies?'' the text on the home page of the Facebook application asks. ''Staples and DoSomething.org have teamed up to collect donations to help those kids in need across the country.''
 Other elements include a sweepstakes to win a trip to New York to meet the singer Ciara and take part in a bag-stuffing event, which is being sponsored by Staples, and weekly Show Us Your Pack challenges for those on the Facebook fan page to do something in the real world like filling collection bins in Staples stores with donated school supplies.
 Teenage bloggers and cause bloggers are being invited to write about the campaign. And banner ads on Web sites are also promoting the effort; the online ads are being bought by MediaCom Interaction, part of the MediaCom division of the GroupM unit of WPP.
 The campaign is emblematic of efforts by marketers to woo consumers by demonstrating they have altruistic interests along with their short-term business needs. Such cause-related campaigns are increasing as the recession continues, perhaps because the economy's woes have reminded the public that there may be more to life than accumulating possessions for oneself.
 ''We have millions of kids coming into the stores,'' says Don LeBlanc, senior vice president for retail marketing at Staples in Framingham, Mass. ''We want to make them feel good about their trips.''
 In the second year of Do Something 101, he adds, the goal is to ''turn it up a notch'' by adding ''a social media element we think will be very powerful.''
 The back-to-school shopping season ''is one of our biggest times of the year,'' Mr. LeBlanc says, and ''it's a bit of a two-step: We need the parent to drive the kid to the store and we need the kid to buy the stuff.''
 ''As we've shifted focus more toward the student, with the high school student as the sweet spot, we've had to think a little more creatively about how to reach them,'' he adds. ''It's not always a TV commercial for a circular.''
 That is where the social media come in, Mr. LeBlanc says, because the target audience is already on Facebook and ''we want to be part of their conversation.''
 A major benefit is what he calls the ''multiplicative power'' of the Adopt a Pack application, in that ''instead of 1 person making a donation, you could have 8, 10, 20.''
 Mr. Youth, which also handles social media assignments for brands like Microsoft Xbox, Mountain Dew, Nike and Neutrogena, was added to the Staples agency roster in March.
 The agency's purpose is to ''figure out how to converse with people across social networks in an authentic way,'' says Doug Akin, managing partner for brand development at Mr. Youth, using tools like RepNation, a Web site where the so-called millennial generation can talk back to brands, share trends they spot and earn rewards.
 For Staples, the idea is to create awareness for Do Something 101, Mr. Akin says, by ''using a core group of teens to champion the cause'' through harnessing the impulses behind activities on Facebook like ''photo tagging,'' labeling who is in the photographs on the site that users share among themselves.
 ''It has a bit of a game component, a bit of entertainment value,'' he adds, which should assist in attracting the target audience.
 Other agencies that work for Staple include McCann Erickson Worldwide in New York. McCann Erickson -- part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies -- creates campaigns for Staples carrying the theme ''That was easy'' and featuring the big red ''Easy'' button.
 Or, to mash up the campaigns, how about: ''Do something. That was easy''?
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); CHARITIES (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



376 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: All-Star Sponsors Strive To Look Truly Charitable

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Making money by giving it away: that is part of the plan for the largest corporate sponsors at the All-Star Game in St. Louis this year.
 State Farm, Bank of America, Pepsi and other sponsors have increased the money they plan to give to charities at this year's event. For each hit in the game, Bank of America will donate $5,000 to Feeding America, which runs a national network of food banks. State Farm expects to exceed the $370,000 it gave to the Boys and Girls Clubs at the Home Run Derby it sponsored last year. Pepsi helped pay for a free concert by Sheryl Crow on Saturday that raised money for Stand Up to Cancer, a research group.
 The strategy is in keeping with the times. Unemployment is up, incomes are down and conspicuous consumption is out. The last thing Major League Baseball or sponsors want is to appear insensitive to the economic challenges that many fans face. 
 The companies also want to deflect criticism of corporate spending on sports, which has become a symbol of the excess of the past decade. Increased scrutiny from politicians, shareholders and consumers has tempered spending on luxury suites, hospitality tents and event sponsorships.
 This is particularly true at Bank of America, General Motors and other companies that have taken taxpayer money to stay afloat. For them, the task is even tougher: how to seem altruistic yet frugal while spending millions of dollars to increase sales.
 ''We've cut our promotions hugely, and we're trying in the few activities that we remain in to make sure we get a return on our investments,'' said Ed Peper, the vice president for Chevrolet at General Motors North America, which sponsors the Roberto Clemente Award, honoring the top humanitarian on each team.
 ''We sell cars and trucks, and we need to sell them to help repay the money we borrowed,'' Peper said.
 Incorporating philanthropy into corporate marketing messages at sporting events is not new. Teams of all stripes have favorite charities that they promote and give to. The N.F.L. has had a long relationship with the United Way. Baseball and the Boys and Girls Clubs of America have worked together for years. But few sporting events showcase corporate giving as well as the All-Star Game. Baseball is woven into the fabric of many communities and is perceived as a wholesome and less commercial sport. 
 The All-Star Game, in mid-July, is one of the few events competing for viewers' attention, so companies have a better chance of having their philanthropic efforts noticed.
 ''It is on a broadcast network, it's prime time, it draws a relatively large audience and it draws a lot of attention leading up to it and has a bit of an afterlife,'' said Eric Wright, the vice president for research and development at Joyce Julius & Associates, a sports market-research firm.
 In concert with baseball, companies are expanding their giving this year. MasterCard will give $1 million to Stand Up to Cancer if a batter hits one of the Hit it Here signs in the outfield during the Home Run Derby or the All-Star Game. In the past, the money went to a fan chosen in a sweepstakes.
 As it did last year, State Farm will donate $17,000 to the Boys and Girls Clubs for each gold ball hit for a home run during the derby. It will also donate $5,000 for each home run hit with regular white balls this year, which should help the company increase its total donation to $500,000.
 ''Charities like the Boys and Girls Clubs are facing tighter times, so this is a great way to help their fund-raising,'' said Mark Gibson, the assistant vice president for advertising at State Farm.
 Bank of America will match donations that fans make to Feeding America during the All-Star Game, up to $100,000.
 Sports marketing experts say that although charitable giving is a solid strategy, some messages can be lost on viewers if the philanthropy is seen as a one-time effort or a blatant attempt to drum up sales.
 ''There's a cacophony of ribbons out there,'' said Carol Cone, the chairwoman of Cone Inc., which advises companies about cause marketing. ''If there's not enough below that ribbon, it becomes wallpaper.''
 The companies and baseball are careful to note that their giving during the All-Star Game is part of broader, year-round efforts not just to help charities, but also to improve their bottom lines.
 For every dollar it spent on sponsoring baseball games, General Motors said, it generated about $5 in sales. About 200,000 people have visited the league's Web site to take part in a program that gives fans tickets and merchandise based on how often they stay at Holiday Inn hotels. Bank of America said that for every dollar it spent at sporting events, it generated $3 in net income.
 ''I can completely understand the cynicism and understand the questions about philanthropy and investments in sports,'' said Ray Bednar, who is in charge of global sponsorship marketing at Bank of America. ''But we make money at this, and that's the most important message to get out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (66%); SPORTS AWARDS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%)

COMPANY: STATE FARM BANK FSB (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



377 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Lenders in Need of Financial Help

BYLINE: By ROB COX and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
From the numbers, it sure is hard to spot the difference between General Electric's financial arm and CIT, the lender facing a refinancing crisis as soon as next month.
 Indeed, CIT's struggles to keep afloat may give the best idea of what life would be like for GE Capital without the benefit of a deep-pocketed corporate parent and the extraordinary largess of the United States government.
 Both CIT -- which hired the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom last week to advise it on its financing options -- and GE Capital cling to business models that no longer work. Like banks, they make longer-term loans to customers. But they depend heavily on short-term financing through the capital markets to finance their assets. 
 The market for such financing has essentially dried up. Lucky for GE Capital, it has a rich industrial parent, which has helpfully diverted a chunk of its dividend payments and capital to the financial business. CIT was spun off from a rival industrial conglomerate, Tyco, a few years back.
 And GE Capital has also availed itself mightily of the government's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. This has allowed GE Capital to issue a whopping $109 billion in bonds backed by Uncle Sam -- making it the single biggest exploiter of the program, administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 Oddly, CIT's application to take part in the guarantee program has been pending since January. Yet, CIT and GE Capital look like birds of a feather -- arguably CIT looks like the prettier of the two ugly ducklings of finance. In the first quarter, CIT had shareholders' equity equal to 10 percent of its $76 billion of assets -- higher than GE Capital's 9.6 percent.
 Moreover, CIT appears less dependent on short-term financing. GE Capital, which had $636 billion of assets, qualified $176 billion of liabilities, or 28 percent of its book, as short-term financing. CIT said $17 billion of its funds were due to be repaid within 12 months, equal to 22.5 percent of its total assets.
 CIT may yet gain access to Uncle Sam's lending guarantee program before it has to pay back $1 billion next month, and manage through its short-term refinancing needs. But the smaller lender's travails should make a compelling case for G.E. to begin winding down, and getting out, of the financial business for the longer-term good of its shareholders.
 MetLife Shopping
 Insurers have been battered by the financial crisis. That makes it a good time for MetLife to go shopping. The American International Group's sale of its international life insurance business, Alico, seems to be an ideal target.
 MetLife had $38 billion of cash and short-term investments in the first quarter. And cash continues to pour in as risk-averse customers flock to insurers with the strongest balance sheets -- its annuity sales in the first quarter were $7.4 billion, more than double the amount in the same period last year.
 True, much of MetLife's cash has to be set aside for paying claims. But MetLife estimates it has excess capital of around $5 billion. And garnering more shouldn't be hard. Since mid-May, insurers have raised about $15 billion in capital, according to JPMorganChase.
 MetLife is spoiled for choice. Insurers traded at about 1.5 times book value, or assets minus liabilities, before the crisis. Now, they trade at book. While nobody should expect a return to the headier days of the past, valuing these businesses at replacement cost seems too conservative over the long run.
 Enter Alico. MetLife needs to expand internationally. Foreign operations currently represent just about 15 percent of earnings. Overseas margins are higher, and life insurance in countries like India and China -- unlike that in the mature United States market -- is growing quickly.
 The sticking point in previous talks to buy Alico was price. Alico earned $1.3 billion in 2008 before capital losses. A.I.G. reportedly demanded $20 billion. It's understandable why MetLife scoffed. Put the earnings on a multiple of 10 -- which assumes earnings are stable -- and add a 30 percent control premium, and $17 billion would seem a fairer value.
 But MetLife should be able to negotiate a lower price. Alico's business has clearly been damaged. Widespread anxiety last year in Asia over A.I.G.'s weaknesses hurt business. And A.I.G. is under intense pressure to sell -- while MetLife could always walk away. If MetLife wants Alico, it shouldn't be a struggle to ensure a deal gets done.
 ROB COX and ROBERT CYRAN 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Breakingviews.com column on Monday about similarities between the lender CIT and GE Capital, General Electric's financial arm, misstated the amount of bonds that GE Capital has issued through the government's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The company had $74 billion in such debt outstanding at the end of the first quarter -- not $109 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MetLife says it has about $5 billion in excess capital. It may be looking to buy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN FICKIES/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (74%); DIVIDENDS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); BONDS (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



378 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: A New Push To Look Back

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; David Johnston and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

 BODY:
President Obama is facing new pressure to reverse himself and to ramp up investigations into the Bush-era security programs, despite the political risks.
 Leading Democrats on Sunday demanded investigations of how a highly classified counterterrorism program was kept secret from the Congressional leadership on the orders of Vice President Dick Cheney.
 Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who is the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, on Fox News Sunday called it a ''big problem.'' Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, on ''This Week'' on ABC, agreed that the secrecy ''could be illegal'' and demanded an inquiry.
 Mr. Obama said this weekend that he had asked his staff members to review the mass killing of prisoners in Afghanistan by local forces allied with the United States as it toppled the Taliban regime there. The New York Times reported Saturday that the Bush administration had blocked investigations of the matter. 
 Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. is also close to assigning a prosecutor to look into whether prisoners in the campaign against terrorism were tortured, officials disclosed on Saturday.
 And after a report from five inspectors general about the National Security Agency's domestic eavesdropping said on Friday that there had been a number of undisclosed surveillance programs during the Bush years, Democrats sought more information.
 That makes four fronts on which the intelligence apparatus is under siege. It is just the kind of distraction from Mr. Obama's domestic priorities -- repairing the economy, revamping the health care system, and addressing the long-term problems of energy and climate -- that the White House wanted to avoid.
 A series of investigations could exacerbate partisan divisions in Congress, just as the Obama administration is trying to push through the president's ambitious domestic plans and needs all the support it can muster.
 ''He wants to dominate the discussion, and he wants the discussion to be about his domestic agenda -- health care, energy and education,'' said Martha Joynt Kumar, a professor of political science at Towson University who studies the presidency.
 The Bush national security controversies ''are certainly a diversion from what he wants to do,'' Professor Kumar said. ''He wants to talk about the present and not the past.'' 
 Professor Kumar said a president's signature accomplishments often come in his first year in office, a pattern that Mr. Obama and his aides are keenly aware of. In addition, investigations at this time could open Mr. Obama up to accusations from Republicans that he is undercutting national security.
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC that despite his dismay at the Central Intelligence Agency's past interrogation methods, including waterboarding, he opposed a criminal inquiry into torture, which he said would ''harm our image throughout the world.''
 ''I agree with the president of the United States, it's time to move forward and not go back,'' Mr. McCain said.
 But in some cases, it may be hard to avoid looking back. On the question of the killings in Afghanistan, Mr. Obama said in an interview on CNN that he had just learned of ''the indications that this had not been properly investigated'' and had directed aides to ''collect the facts'' on the killing of hundreds or thousands of Taliban prisoners.
 ''If it appears that our conduct in some way supported violations of the laws of war, then I think that, you know, we have to know about that,'' the president said.
 Mr. Obama is also likely to face increasing pressure from some of his strongest supporters that Bush administration officials be held accountable for approving what Mr. Obama himself has called torture. The drumbeat of new revelations from the years after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, appears unlikely to let up.
 By summer's end, the Justice Department's ethics office is expected to release a report on the former department officials who wrote legal opinions justifying brutal interrogations. The C.I.A. has said that at the end of August it will release part of the 2004 agency inspector general's report on interrogation that questioned the legality and effectiveness of the program.
 And an 18-month-old criminal investigation of the C.I.A.'s destruction of videotapes of waterboarding and other brutal treatment during interrogation is still under way, with a number of former C.I.A. officials called to testify before a grand jury and at least the possibility of indictments. 
 The special prosecutor in charge of that investigation, John H. Durham, has been mentioned as a possible choice for Mr. Holder if he decides to name someone to lead a torture investigation. 
 Mr. Obama has publicly resisted calls for a criminal torture investigation, as well as Congressional proposals for a broader national commission to review interrogation and eavesdropping. But Justice Department officials confirmed a report in Newsweek on Saturday that Mr. Holder in recent weeks has been leaning toward opening an interrogation inquiry.
 One person familiar with the attorney general's thinking said on Sunday that investigating the possible crimes of the previous administration ''is something he was reluctant to do.'' 
 Mr. Holder, however, ''saw things that were disturbing shortly after taking office'' and began to think more seriously about a torture investigation recently after studying the 2004 C.I.A. inspector general's report, which describes how waterboarding and other methods sometimes went beyond the legal guidelines the Justice Department had approved, said this person, discussing conversations with Mr. Holder on condition of anonymity.
 The attorney general would prefer to keep such an inquiry narrowly focused and assign it to a line prosecutor, if possible, rather than appoint a special prosecutor, the person said. He said Mr. Holder is aware of the inevitable political fallout and the possible dismay of the White House but insists that he will not let those factors influence his decision.
 Mr. Obama's interests are broader than Mr. Holder's. If inquiries into the actions of the intelligence agencies under Mr. Bush alienate their operatives, that might restrict Mr. Obama's ability to use the agencies as he prosecutes the campaigns in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
 Mr. Obama has been eager not to put himself at odds with the military and intelligence agencies. He visited C.I.A. headquarters early in his presidency and blocked the release of photographs of prisoner abuse, saying they could inflame people in Iraq and Afghanistan and endanger American troops.
 A rash of investigations could undercut the good will he has earned, a point his Republican critics were quick to make on Sunday. 
 ''This is high-risk stuff,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on Fox News Sunday. ''Because if we chill the ability or the willingness of our intelligence operatives and others to get information that's necessary to protect America, there could be disastrous consequences.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, was among leaders critical of the secrecy of a counterterrorism program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MAXON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); POLITICS (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TALIBAN (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (74%); RICHARD DURBIN (74%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (74%); ERIC HOLDER (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



379 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Boiling The Frog

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Is America on its way to becoming a boiled frog?
 I'm referring, of course, to the proverbial frog that, placed in a pot of cold water that is gradually heated, never realizes the danger it's in and is boiled alive. Real frogs will, in fact, jump out of the pot -- but never mind. The hypothetical boiled frog is a useful metaphor for a very real problem: the difficulty of responding to disasters that creep up on you a bit at a time.
 And creeping disasters are what we mostly face these days. 
 I started thinking about boiled frogs recently as I watched the depressing state of debate over both economic and environmental policy. These are both areas in which there is a substantial lag before policy actions have their full effect -- a year or more in the case of the economy, decades in the case of the planet -- yet in which it's very hard to get people to do what it takes to head off a catastrophe foretold.
 And right now, both the economic and the environmental frogs are sitting still while the water gets hotter.
 Start with economics: last winter the economy was in acute crisis, with a replay of the Great Depression seeming all too possible. And there was a fairly strong policy response in the form of the Obama stimulus plan, even if that plan wasn't as strong as some of us thought it should have been.
 At this point, however, the acute crisis has given way to a much more insidious threat. Most economic forecasters now expect gross domestic product to start growing soon, if it hasn't already. But all the signs point to a ''jobless recovery'': on average, forecasters surveyed by The Wall Street Journal believe that the unemployment rate will keep rising into next year, and that it will be as high at the end of 2010 as it is now.
 Now, it's bad enough to be jobless for a few weeks; it's much worse being unemployed for months or years. Yet that's exactly what will happen to millions of Americans if the average forecast is right -- which means that many of the unemployed will lose their savings, their homes and more. 
 To head off this outcome -- and remember, this isn't what economic Cassandras are saying; it's the forecasting consensus -- we'd need to get another round of fiscal stimulus under way very soon. But neither Congress nor, alas, the Obama administration is showing any inclination to act. Now that the free fall is over, all sense of urgency seems to have vanished. 
 This will probably change once the reality of the jobless recovery becomes all too apparent. But by then it will be too late to avoid a slow-motion human and social disaster.
 Still, the boiled-frog problem on the economy is nothing compared with the problem of getting action on climate change.
 Put it this way: if the consensus of the economic experts is grim, the consensus of the climate experts is utterly terrifying. At this point, the central forecast of leading climate models -- not the worst-case scenario but the most likely outcome -- is utter catastrophe, a rise in temperatures that will totally disrupt life as we know it, if we continue along our present path. How to head off that catastrophe should be the dominant policy issue of our time.
 But it isn't, because climate change is a creeping threat rather than an attention-grabbing crisis. The full dimensions of the catastrophe won't be apparent for decades, perhaps generations. In fact, it will probably be many years before the upward trend in temperatures is so obvious to casual observers that it silences the skeptics. Unfortunately, if we wait to act until the climate crisis is that obvious, catastrophe will already have become inevitable. 
 And while a major environmental bill has passed the House, which was an amazing and inspiring political achievement, the bill fell well short of what the planet really needs -- and despite this faces steep odds in the Senate. 
 What makes the apparent paralysis of policy especially alarming is that so little is happening when the political situation seems, on the surface, to be so favorable to action.
 After all, supply-siders and climate-change-deniers no longer control the White House and key Congressional committees. Democrats have a popular president to lead them, a large majority in the House of Representatives and 60 votes in the Senate. And this isn't the old Democratic majority, which was an awkward coalition between Northern liberals and Southern conservatives; this is, by historical standards, a relatively solid progressive bloc.
 And let's be clear: both the president and the party's Congressional leadership understand the economic and environmental issues perfectly well. So if we can't get action to head off disaster now, what would it take?
 I don't know the answer. And that's why I keep thinking about boiling frogs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



380 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Back on the Campaign Trail, Despite His 2006 Vow

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Outside the Fairway market on the Upper West Side the other day, not far from the cartons of strawberries and cases of Fiji Water, a voice pleaded for attention. ''I'm Mark Green, Democrat for public advocate,'' it said again and again, as shoppers headed in and out of the store. ''If you sign my petition for 30 seconds, I can get on the ballot to run for office again.''
 A handful of people recognized Mr. Green, the man who three years ago declared he would never again seek office.
 But most did not break stride. So Mr. Green cupped his hand to his face and shouted: ''If you sign, I get on the ballot. If you don't, I'll cry.'' 
 It was not that long ago that Mr. Green drew far more notice, almost defeating a billionaire named Michael R. Bloomberg in the 2001 mayor's race, and falling to a political scion named Andrew M. Cuomo in the 2006 primary for attorney general. But this time, he is part of the undercard in another general election, and facing unexpected challenges as he tries to reclaim a job that he occupied for much of the 1990s.
 He has raised relatively little money. He has collected a fraction of the endorsements he received in the past. With few major politicians, unions or Democratic clubs as allies, he is collecting ballot petitions himself. And other than two recent appearances with Betsy Gotbaum, the current public advocate, and other candidates for the office to criticize Mr. Bloomberg's cuts to the advocate's budget, he has been keeping an unusually muted profile.
 ''Why would I have a press conference and have no one come?'' Mr. Green said on a recent morning as he collected signatures outside a Chelsea subway stop. ''Who wants to come listen to the Mark Green economic development plan?''
 The conventional wisdom holds that the Sept. 15 primary remains Mr. Green's to lose because he is better known than any of the other Democratic candidates: Norman Siegel, the civil liberties lawyer, and two City Council members: Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn and Eric N. Gioia of Queens. The Republican candidate is Alex T. Zablocki, a political aide from Staten Island.
 But political analysts say Mr. Green may not clear the 40 percent threshold needed to avoid a runoff. And if he fails to do so, whoever ends up as his rival may have more momentum -- especially if it is Mr. de Blasio, who commands strong labor support.
 ''Mark Green has run so many times and he has tapped the same donors so many times that there may be some Green fatigue,'' said Douglas Muzzio, a professor of political science at Baruch College. ''Maybe that's why he's running such an under-the-radar campaign.''
 Following his loss to Mr. Cuomo -- and after stating unequivocally in 2006, ''I will not seek elective office again'' -- Mr. Green is back on the hunt for votes, driven in large part, he says, by his anger over Mr. Bloomberg's overturning of term limits.
 Since announcing his candidacy in March, Mr. Green has collected more than $400,000, of which $110,000 in contributions of up to $175 each qualify for a $6-to-$1 match of public funds. He said that he was confident he would reach the $125,000 threshold in contributions qualifying for matching funds by Aug. 11, in time for the stretch run, according his campaign manager, Anne Strahle.
 By contrast, Mr. Gioia has raised $2 million and Mr. de Blasio, who announced his bid last fall, $1.1 million. (Mr. Gioia, some say jokingly, has been running for advocate since winning his second Council term in 2005.)
 ''I have to do in six months what others have been doing for years,'' Mr. Green said. ''I think it's an advantage for me in that I've been a consumer advocate and public advocate in front of voters for a long time. I am happy where I am. I'm a hopeless optimist.''
 Part of Mr. Green's rationale for relying on name recognition among likely primary voters, rather than a visible campaign, could be what even former aides say is his polarizing personality. Though he is still the same liberal lion, committed to economic justice and civil rights, many political insiders believe him to be arrogant and solipsistic, qualities not likely to endear him to voters. 
 When asked recently after a City Hall news conference what his schedule would be like over the next few days, Mr. Green scrolled through his iPhone and said: ''Petitioning. Fund-raising. Petitioning. Fund-raising. No events.''
 Mr. Green said that he could not stay silent when he heard about the Bloomberg administration's 40 percent budget cut for the public advocate's office. But that prompted some people to wonder whether Mr. Green and the other candidates for advocate were motivated chiefly by self-interest. 
 Indeed, with the exception of Mr. Siegel, who has no other publicly stated political ambitions, whoever wins would be well positioned to run for mayor in 2013, Professor Muzzio said.
 Mr. Green scoffs at such talk. He says that the city desperately needs an independent -- and in his case, seasoned -- public advocate to stand up to Mr. Bloomberg, and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn. Under the City Charter, the public advocate, whose role is to be an ombudsman for complaints about city government, is next in line to succeed the mayor.
 ''Some people say, 'You're running again?' '' Mr. Green said. ''I say, 'I don't run to run, but to serve.' I also never hear, 'Let the new guy do it.' I always hear, 'You're the experienced guy who helped me before.' ''
 But first Mr. Green needs to collect the signatures of 7,500 registered voters. So he multitasks. At the start of the gay pride parade last month, he gathered his team of about a dozen college volunteers in a huddle, and, acting like a quarterback, told them to go wide to the sidewalk barricades, armed with their petition clipboards.
 ''It's a great day for gay pride and rights, but we can't help it -- we've got to petition,'' Mr. Green said, adding that he enjoyed interacting with voters.
 At the Fairway market, Mr. Green ran into old friends, like Lloyd Constantine, a close associate of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer. Mr. Constantine promised to send a campaign contribution that weekend. Mr. Spitzer had already given $2,000.
 A few said they wished Mr. Green were running for mayor. Others asked, perhaps cynically, ''What are you running for now?'' One even confused him -- and this was a first, Mr. Green noted -- with Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, who, with his glasses, gravelly voice and shorter, stockier frame, would be difficult to mistake for a long-lost twin of Mr. Green's.
 ''It humbles the candidate,'' said Michael Gaspard, Mr. Green's political director. ''You've got to go out, meet voters, get reaction. It's a good process.''
 The reaction of Jessica Nooney, who runs a day care center on the Upper West Side, may have been emblematic. She blurted out, with a big smile, ''Are you the real Mark Green?''
 He nodded. She said: ''It's the real Mark Green! We need you!''
 After she left, and passed the next street corner, where a New York University student was collecting signatures for Leslie Crocker Snyder's bid for Manhattan district attorney, Ms. Nooney acknowledged feeling torn.
 ''He's a household name, and I hope he makes it,'' she said. ''But it's very sad. It's like he can't get another job. When someone has lost so many times, it's kind of hard to come back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Green, who is running for New York City public advocate, collecting signatures for his candidacy at the Fairway market on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Green, right, debated rivals for state attorney general in August 2006. From left, Charlie King, Andrew M. Cuomo and Sean Patrick Maloney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART RAMSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); BALLOTS (90%); PETITIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); MAYORS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); BUDGETS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CITIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (52%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (72%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



381 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Negotiator With Instinct for the Deal

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Critics of Barack Obama's Washington, who often prefer not to challenge the popular president directly, tend instead to aim at Congress. 
 Specifically, they blame lawmakers for undermining his agenda. Liberals blame senators for dithering in search of bipartisan consensus; conservatives accuse House leaders of hijacking centrist proposals and careening to the ideological left.
 That formulation collides squarely with the work of Mr. Obama's top legislative ally: Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. In the administration's most remarkable success so far, House passage of legislation to cap carbon emissions, Mr. Waxman, speaking at right, bargained so ardently with business and Democratic moderates as to bring a new complaint: that he had compromised away the bill's original merit. 
 ''It's easier to write a column criticizing legislation than it is to pass legislation,'' Mr. Waxman said in an interview. ''We needed a broad coalition of business and environmentalists and labor unions, and we got it. It had the backing because it was a compromise.''
 Now Mr. Waxman, one of three House committee chairmen coordinating health care legislation, prepares to bargain again.
 Instinct for the Deal
 Thirty-five years after winning his seat in the Watergate election of 1974, Mr. Waxman remains an unabashed pro-government liberal. But the Obama White House values him most for his instinct for the deal.
 Last November he challenged the dean of the House, Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, for the Energy and Commerce chairmanship, running at 69 years old as the next-generation candidate in better tune with Mr. Obama's agenda. The Democratic caucus, voting a few days after the president-elect named Mr. Waxman's former chief of staff, Phil Schiliro, as his White House legislative liaison, agreed.
 Now Mr. Waxman tells Democrats ''failure's really not an option'' on health care, calling it ''make or break'' for the party. Deals struck now in the House and the Senate -- on issues like financing expanded coverage and the contours of a ''public option'' -- represent only the opening round.
 ''You could keep drawing enough red lines, and then when you're through, there's no ability to get a bill passed,'' Mr. Waxman said in the Energy and Commerce hearing room. ''Everything's open to compromise once we get our bill and they have their bill.''
 Even within each chamber, compromises seem slow in coming. Restless allies want Mr. Obama to stop ''subcontracting'' his goals to Congressional negotiators and exert more hands-on leadership -- a complaint Mr. Waxman dismisses as premature.
 ''He could send us a bill and say, 'Pass it,' and the people would say, 'How could he send us a bill and tell us to pass it?' '' Mr. Waxman said. He pointed instead toward the legislative end game this fall as the moment for Mr. Obama's intervention, adding, ''When we get down to the conference and working out the final bill, the administration will be very much a part of that discussion.'' 
 And Mr. Waxman remains confident that the debate will in fact reach that point, even as odds increase that only the House will meet Mr. Obama's call for floor action before the Congressional recess in August.
 ''They'll figure out how to do it in the Senate,'' he said. ''It'll look like it's very close, and then it falls apart, then it goes back together, then it falls apart, and it has its own rhythm.'' 
 His Time to Shine
 That optimism reflects Mr. Waxman's conviction that, after the conservative era that has reigned for most of his career, public sentiment has shifted his way. He has worked so furiously to take advantage that he fainted in his office soon after the House energy bill vote and was hospitalized. ''They did a lot of tests and they didn't find anything wrong, so I'm doing O.K.,'' Mr. Waxman said. 
 Mr. Obama's backers still face institutional obstacles that have helped thwart comprehensive health care legislation for decades. In his new book ''The Waxman Report: How Congress Really Works,'' the lawmaker describes his faith in government action, but also the difficulty in achieving it in a Congress ''designed to stop things, not build them.''
 So he does not minimize the challenge ahead -- on health care, or on pushing a cap on carbon emissions through the Senate as well as the House. The recent sag in Mr. Obama's poll standing, amid concerns about the economy and the budget deficit, makes it even steeper.
 ''It's going to be a heavy burden,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''He wants to bring about big changes -- not just work around the edges, but do something that's going to make a huge difference for this country. And that's what I'm trying to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); HOME PRICES (72%); EMISSIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LABOR UNIONS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HENRY WAXMAN (79%); JOHN DINGELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



382 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: The Audacity of the Pope

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Papal encyclicals are supposed to be written with one eye on two millenniums of Catholic teaching, and the other on eternity. But Americans, as a rule, have rather narrower horizons. As soon as the media have finished scanning a Vatican document for references to sex, the debate begins in earnest: Is it good for the left, or for the right? For Democrats, or for Republicans?
 This was true in the 1950s, when the young William F. Buckley Jr. famously feuded with liberals over how much respect he owed to papal pronouncements on economic matters. 
 It was true in the 1990s, when conservatives eagerly cited John Paul II's condemnations of abortion and euthanasia, while liberals countered by noting his criticisms of the death penalty. 
 And it's especially true today, when a document like (''Charity in Truth''), the third encyclical of Benedict XVI's papacy -- whose release, last Tuesday, was slightly overshadowed by a celebrity funeral of some sort -- can be wrangled over endlessly within hours of showing up online.
 These arguments never seem to go anywhere. When a pope criticizes legalized abortion, liberal Catholics nod and say that yes, they agree, it's a terrible tragedy ... but of course they can't impose their religious values on a secular society. When a pope endorses the redistribution of wealth, conservative Catholics stroke their chins and say that yes, they agree, society needs a safety net ... but of course they're duty-bound to oppose the tyranny of big government. And when the debate isn't going their way, left and right both fall back on flaccid rhetoric about how the papal message ''transcends politics,'' and shouldn't be turned to any partisan purpose.
 ''Caritas in Veritate'' has been no exception. It's a ''social'' encyclical, in the church's parlance, covering issues ranging from globalization and the environment to unions and the welfare state. Inevitably, liberal Catholics spent the past week touting its relevance to the Democratic Party's policy positions. (A representative blast e-mail: ''Pope's Encyclical on Global Economy Supports the Principles of the Employee Free Choice Act.'') Just as inevitably, conservative Catholics hastened to explain that the encyclical ''is not a political document'' -- to quote a statement co-authored by the House minority leader, John Boehner -- and shouldn't be read as ''an endorsement of any political or economic agenda.'' 
 Boehner is half right. The pope is not a Democrat or a Republican, and his vision doesn't fit the normal categories of American politics. 
 But Benedict's encyclical is nothing if not political. ''Caritas in Veritate'' promotes a vision of economic solidarity rooted in moral conservatism. It links the dignity of labor to the sanctity of marriage. It praises the redistribution of wealth while emphasizing the importance of decentralized governance. It connects the despoiling of the environment to the mass destruction of human embryos. 
 This is not a message you're likely to hear in Barack Obama's next State of the Union, or in the Republican Party's response. It represents a kind of left-right fusionism with little traction in American politics. 
 But that's precisely what makes it so relevant and challenging -- for Catholics and non-Catholics alike. 
 We're passing through the worst economic dislocation of the past 80 years. Our politics are polarized; our institutions gridlocked. The governing party is mistrusted, the minority party despised. 
 Yet there's remarkably little radical thinking taking place. The Republican Party is retrenching, falling back on Reagan-era verities. His promises of post-partisan change notwithstanding, Barack Obama's agenda looks like the same old Democratic laundry list, rewritten in a sleeker, Internet-era font. 
 This doesn't mean that America needs a third party with ''Caritas in Veritate'' as its platform. The church is not a think tank, and there's room for wide disagreement about how to put its social teaching into practice. 
 But Catholics are obliged to take seriously the underlying provocation of the papal message -- namely, that our present political alignments are not the only ones imaginable, and that truth may not be served by perfect ideological conformity. 
 So should all people of good will. For liberals and conservatives alike, ''Caritas in Veritate'' is an invitation to think anew about their alliances and litmus tests. 
 Why should being pro-environment preclude being pro-life? Why can't Republicans worry about economic inequality, and Democrats consider devolving more power to localities and states? Does opposing the Iraq war mean that you have to endorse an anything-goes approach to bioethics? Does supporting free trade require supporting the death penalty? 
 These questions, and many others like them, are the kind that a healthy political system would allow voters and politicians to explore. 
 But for now, at least, you're more likely to find them being raised in Benedict XVI's Vatican than in Barack Obama's Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ABORTION (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (54%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



383 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Honduran Rivals See U.S. Intervention as Crucial in Resolving Political Crisis

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica 

 BODY:
When President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica set out to find a negotiated solution to the Honduran political crisis, he hailed it as an opportunity for Central Americans to show they could resolve their own problems, and he established some simple ground rules. 
 The ousted president of Honduras, Manuel Zelaya, and the man who leads the de facto government that replaced him, Roberto Micheletti, were each to show up at his house with just four of their closest Honduran advisers. 
 On Thursday morning, Mr. Micheletti showed up with six, adding an American public relations specialist who has done work for former President Bill Clinton and the American's interpreter, and an official close to the talks said the team rarely made a move without consulting him.
 Then on Friday, with the negotiations seemingly going nowhere, Mr. Arias reached out for American support of his own, telling Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that pressure from the United States was crucial to ending the stalemate.
 In the two weeks since the coup against Mr. Zelaya, the Obama administration has taken great pains to distance itself from the crisis as part of an effort to make the United States just one of many players in a region that it has long dominated. And Latin American leaders have publicly expressed support for what they describe as Washington's new spirit of collaboration.
 Privately, and not so privately, however, it has become clear that leaders on all sides of this crisis see the United States as the key to getting what they want. 
 In recent days, Mr. Zelaya and his allies, who include some of the most vocal critics of United States policy in the region, have repeatedly called on Washington to increase its pressure on Mr. Micheletti by recalling its ambassador -- the United States is one of the few countries in the region that continues to keep its envoy in Tegucigalpa, the Honduran capital -- and by imposing tougher sanctions. 
 Even Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, made a rare call to Assistant Secretary of State Thomas A. Shannon Jr. on Friday to directly make an appeal he had issued earlier on television.
 ''Do something,'' Mr. Chavez had said to reporters. ''Obama, do something.''
 Meanwhile, Mr. Micheletti has embarked on a public relations offensive, with his supporters hiring high-profile lawyers with strong Washington connections to lobby against such sanctions. One powerful Latin American business council hired Lanny J. Davis, who has served as President Clinton's personal lawyer and who campaigned for Mrs. Clinton for president. 
 And last week, Mr. Micheletti brought the adviser from another firm with Clinton ties to the talks in Costa Rica. The adviser, Bennett Ratcliff of San Diego, refused to give details about his role at the talks. 
 ''Every proposal that Micheletti's group presented was written or approved by the American,'' said another official close to the talks, referring to Mr. Ratcliff. 
 With or without the presence of foreigners, Mr. Arias faces long odds against success. Mr. Zelaya and Mr. Micheletti refused to meet face to face and left the talks before the end of the first day. And while there was less hostility between the two delegations on Day 2, an official close to the talks said Mr. Arias was unable to get the groups to agree on a date for the next round of talks or even to shake hands in front of the throngs of reporters gathered outside his home.
 ''He told them, the Palestinians and Israelis were enemies for generations, and their leaders shook hands,'' an official said, referring to Mr. Arias. ''You all were friends until two weeks ago. And yet you cannot make one symbolic gesture?''
 But people who are familiar with the talks -- diplomats, lawyers and government officials who attended the meetings or monitored them from offices in Costa Rica, the United States and Honduras -- said the sessions produced at least one important breakthrough: leaders on both sides of the divide moved beyond their blustery statements so that mediators could identify the real obstacles to a peaceful compromise.
 Among the most intractable of those obstacles, said three officials close to the talks, was Mr. Micheletti. While Mr. Zelaya indicated that he was willing to accept a compromise that would return him to office with significantly limited powers, the officials said, it appeared that Mr. Micheletti believed he could run out the clock and hold on to the presidency until his country's presidential elections in November.
 The officials said Mr. Arias told Mrs. Clinton that the United States had to make clear to Mr. Micheletti that elections held by an illegitimate government would themselves not be considered legitimate. 
 However, one official said that the United States wanted to be careful ''not to take a huge public role.'' He said the United States indicated that it would quietly make clear to Mr. Micheletti that the $16.5 million it has already suspended in military aid could be expanded to include $180 million in other economic development assistance that is still under review.
 Mr. Micheletti's supporters are pushing back in part by paying hundreds of dollars an hour to well-connected Washington lawyers who have initiated a charm offensive from Washington. On Friday, Mr. Davis was testifying on Capitol Hill in support of Mr. Micheletti's de facto government.
 And on Saturday, Mr. Davis called reporters close to midnight to notify them that Mr. Micheletti had fired Enrique Ortez, whom he had appointed as his foreign minister, for having outraged American officials by referring in a television interview to President Obama as ''that little black guy who doesn't even know where Tegucigalpa is located.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COUPS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LOBBYING (71%); APPROVALS (63%); LAWYERS (62%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MANUEL ZELAYA (78%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); HONDURAS (98%); COSTA RICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009



384 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Rival Bidder for G.M.'s European Unit Says a Deal Is Near

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Another bidder said it was nearing a deal for the European operations of General Motors, in a move that could derail plans to sell the unit to a Canadian auto parts maker and a Russian bank. 
 RHJ International, an industrial holding company listed in Brussels, said on Monday that it was well along in its talks with G.M. for the acquisition of a majority stake in its newly consolidated European subsidiary, Opel, which includes the operations of Vauxhall in Britain.
 ''These discussions have been taking place over a number of weeks and are at an advanced stage,'' RHJ said. 
 Magna International, the Canadian parts company, and Sberbank, a Russian lender controlled by the Kremlin, signed a tentative deal to acquire majority ownership of Opel in late May, just before G.M. sought protection from its creditors in a United States bankruptcy court. At the time, Magna and Sberbank overcame rival offers from Fiat and from RHJ, and a late expression of interest from Beijing Automotive Industrial Holding. The two companies had said they hoped to have the outlines of the deal by mid-July. 
 But those negotiations have been stalled for weeks by disagreements over the future of Opel and rights to its technology. During that time, G.M. and the German authorities have continued to explore their options with rival bidders. 
 Any deal is contingent on government aid, giving Germany a deciding vote. Berlin has already agreed to provide 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) in short-term loans to keep Opel going. 
 Karin Kirchner, a General Motors spokeswoman in Zurich, confirmed that the companies were talking. ''We have received proposals from RHJ International and Beijing Automotive, and we are in discussions with them,'' she said. 
 G.M. said that negotiations with Magna were continuing and that ''the wide interest in Opel will produce, in the end, the best outcome for Opel, G.M. and European governments providing support to the process.'' General Motors emerged from bankruptcy on Friday after completing a 40-day restructuring under Chapter 11 of the United States bankruptcy code. 
 Jurgen Reinholz, economy minister of the German state of Thuringia, said that Magna was preferred by the four states in which Opel has plants.
 ''Magna is still the best solution. The second best would be Fiat,'' he told Reuters.
 Analysts have argued that a deal with Fiat, which took a controlling 20 percent stake in Chrysler in June, made the most sense, considering the company's management. The Italian automaker's desire to streamline and consolidate production, however, raised fears among union and government officials that job cuts would fall heavily on German workers. Fiat has said that it remains interested in a deal but that it will not raise its offer. 
 Ms. Kirchner declined to comment on G.M.'s communications with Fiat. 
 Arnaud Denis, a spokesman in Brussels for RHJ, said that with 440 million euros in cash and 60 percent of its invested capital in the automotive sector, ''RHJ has the capacity to create a strong stand-alone European carmaker.''
 RHJ's holdings include Honsel, a German company that produces metal products for the automotive, electronics and aeronautical industries, and Asahi Tec, a Japanese auto parts company. 
 Some analysts questioned whether Beijing Automotive had the management skill to pull off a complicated international merger and run a giant European manufacturer, but they were not counting the company out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (68%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (84%); MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (57%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (84%); F (BIT) (84%); MGA (NYSE) (84%); MG (TSX) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%); SBER (RTS) (57%); SBER (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) THURINGEN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



385 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Airlines Brace for New Woes

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS and GERRY SHIH; Nicola Clark contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The airline industry is in the midst of one of its most wrenching summers ever. And the fall and winter may be even worse -- unless people start to fly again.
 While the airlines have been struggling for more than a year as leisure travelers pulled back on spending, the industry has been battered from all directions since the financial system nearly collapsed last September.
Business and international travel, which had been a relative bright spot until then, dropped precipitously. Fuel costs have also been difficult to manage, as carriers first struggled to pay record high prices last summer and now have to contend with extraordinarily volatile prices. And the credit markets, which the airlines have turned to in previous tough times, are particularly reluctant to lend now, giving some carriers little choice but to pay high interest rates. 
 For the time being, analysts agree that the airlines, by cutting routes and employees, grounding planes and imposing fees, can weather the downturn. In fact, when the latest round of capacity cuts takes effect in September, the seats on domestic flights will drop to 66.5 million -- down from a peak of about 84 million in 2001 and the lowest September figure since 1984, according to OAG Aviation, which tracks flight schedules. 
 But if conditions continue to deteriorate, analysts say, some airlines may not survive.
 ''There are too many airlines and too much capacity and really no pricing power,'' said Hunter Keay, an airline analyst at Stifel Nicolaus in Baltimore. ''This is as bad a crisis as the industry's ever seen.''
 Giovanni Bisignani, the chief executive of the International Air Transport Association, told airline chiefs much the same thing in June. ''Today's situation is unprecedented, the most difficult ever,'' Mr. Bisignani said. ''I am a realist. I don't see facts to support optimism.'' 
 For travelers, this means that airlines will continue to cut flights in the fall -- not by eliminating service outright as they did last year but by reducing the frequency and using smaller planes on certain routes. Passengers may also see new fees.
 A bit of good news for travelers is that airlines, worried about keeping the passengers they still have, are continuing to offer low fares, which are often further discounted. Southwest Airlines ran a 48-hour sale last week that slashed one-way fares below $100 on many shorter routes for travel this fall, and other carriers quickly matched the cuts.
 But a fare sale is not enough to counter the overall trend of passenger demand falling faster than the airlines can cut capacity. 
 The industry has also been cutting jobs. In April, the total number of employees at American carriers was 583,030, down from 624,372 in 2007 and more than 24 percent below the peak in May 2001. 
 Globally, airline employment is also down significantly. The world's carriers employed 1.48 million people in 2008, the latest figure available from the air transport association, down from 1.71 million in 2000.
 Willie Walsh, the chief executive of British Airways, recently lamented that his airline was in a ''fight for suvival,'' asking staff members last month to consider working up to 30 days without pay. Air France said last week that the airline was considering temporary layoffs later this year, on top of a planned 3,000 job cuts it announced in May.
 John Heimlich, chief economist of the Air Transport Association, a trade group of American airlines, said the carriers had been struggling for most of this decade. ''One year's profit or loss is not adequate to determine a company's financial health,'' he said. ''It's the cumulative deficit and consecutive years of weakness that has mattered.''
 The decline in demand for premium seats on international flights has taken a significant toll. When the economy was rolling, airlines could charge thousands for seats in the front of their planes, and business customers, in particular, paid for both the comfort and convenience. Those high fares subsidized the discounted seats in the back. 
 But when the economy deteriorated last fall, premium travel dropped off with it. The number of passengers traveling on business and first-class tickets between North America and Europe was down 18.4 percent in April compared with the same month last year, the International Air Transport Association said. And traffic between North America and Asia was down even more in that period, nearly 26 percent. 
 ''With the front end of the plane emptying out, you really can't afford to keep filling up the back of the bus with ever-cheaper fares,'' said Peter Morris, chief economist at Ascend, an airline industry consultancy in London.
 Competition on trans-Atlantic routes is already fierce, with roughly 50 airlines offering connections between major European and United States cities. The liberalization of air travel between the two continents through the 2007 ''open skies'' agreement has kept steady downward pressure on fares on the most heavily traveled routes.
 For inter-European travel, the switch by many business- and first-class travelers to economy seats has hit mainline carriers like Lufthansa and Air France-KLM hard, analysts said. But what is bad news for some has proven to be a boon to others.
 ''The big players that depend heavily on corporate traffic are being hit worse than average,'' said Mr. Morris of Ascend. ''But at the other end of the spectrum, there are low-cost carriers like Easyjet, Ryanair and Air Berlin that can potentially mop up bits and pieces from the people who are willing to step down a bit and accept lower frequency and fewer amenities.''
 While all the American carriers are suffering, some analysts have said they are looking most closely at the financial condition of United Airlines and US Airways.
 United relied heavily on corporate and trans-Pacific fliers before the downturn. Fitch Ratings cited the declines in both early last month in explaining why it had lowered United's credit rating further into junk status. It also said the airline faced ''steady and heavy debt maturities'' later this year and next. 
 In late June, the carrier was able to raise $175 million by issuing new debt but only at a high interest rate of 17 percent. 
 United officials said they remained optimistic about the carrier's prospects. ''I think we have shown our ability to raise liquidity in clearly what is a tough market environment,'' said Kathryn Mikells, the chief financial officer. ''United is a resilient company.''
 The problems at US Airways are somewhat different. It has struggled since a $1.5 billion merger in 2005 with America West, a low-fare carrier, analysts say. The combined company now finds itself with the thinnest cash position of any major airline, said Basili Alukos, an analyst at Morningstar Research, meaning it may have to resort to further borrowing to meet debt payments. 
 But, Mr. Alukos said: ''All their assets are already mortgaged. They don't have much borrowing capability left.'' 
 Dan Cravens, director of investor relations for US Airways, would not comment specifically on what analysts have said, but pointed out that the carrier had found cash in tough times before.
 Traffic and revenue have also fallen at carriers like Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran. But the drop has not been as steep, partly because they rely less on corporate travelers. 
 One of the few ways the airlines have generated new revenue is through fees for things like exit row seats to bringing pets on board. Baggage fees, for example, added $566.3 million to airlines' pockets in the first quarter of this year, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. 
 Michael Boyd, an aviation consultant in Denver, estimates that fees now constitute nearly 5 percent of revenue at some large airlines. Still, the fees alone cannot offset falling income. 
 The best outlook for the industry is if passenger demand picks up soon. Combined with the shrinking number of seats, that would allow airlines to bolster air fares -- a necessary step, analysts say, toward a turnaround. ''If there's going to be a recovery, it will most likely take the form of fewer discounts,'' said Gary Chase, an airline analyst at Barclays Capital in New York.
 Passengers already feel the impact of the capacity cuts. After squeezing her way off a cramped US Airways flight to New York over the July 4 holiday weekend, Michelle Zeccola, a frequent flier from Columbia, S.C., recalled when planes were less crowded. ''I could literally sit across three seats by myself if I wanted. Now it's totally booked.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: To weather the downturn, airlines have grounded planes. Above, idle planes at an airport in Victorville, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
A United Airlines ticket counter in Denver. While all airlines are suffering, some analysts say United faces particularly tough times along with a heavy debt burden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B7)
CHART: FEWER PASSENGER, FEWER FLIGHTS: As airlines have cut flights and routes to reduce costs, domestic airline capacity has shrunk to its lowest level since 1984. (Source: OAG Aviation
 Harrell Associates) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIR FARES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009



386 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Criticizes Bloomberg Over Raises

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
New York City's top fiscal watchdog attacked Mayor R. Bloomberg on Monday for giving City Hall aides raises of up to $18,000 in the middle of the worst recession in decades, calling it ''bad government'' and ''bad policy.''
 The watchdog, Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., a Democratic candidate for mayor, called on Mr. Bloomberg to reconsider the raises, which he gave to nearly 6,700 managers and nonunion workers. They will cost $45 million this year and $510 million over the next decade, aides to the mayor said. 
 Mr. Thompson, recalling the mayor's decision recently to lay off workers to close a budget gap, said Mr. Bloomberg ''neither sees nor comprehends the struggles of working New Yorkers. Instead, his proposals benefit a few at the expense of the many.'' 
 ''I am offended,'' he said. 
 A little before 5 p.m. on Friday, when much of the City Hall press corps was headed home for the weekend, the Bloomberg administration disclosed the raises -- 4 percent retroactive to March 3, 2008, and another 4 percent raise effective this past March 3. 
 Senior aides to the mayor stand to gain the most. Deputy mayors, for example, will receive raises of more than $15,000. The salary of Patricia E. Harris, the first deputy mayor, will rise to $245,760, up from $227,219. Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor for operations, will make $212,614, up from $196, 574. The mayor's press secretary, Stu Loeser, will earn $200,096, up from $185,000. The mayor himself takes a $1-a-year salary.
 Aides to the mayor said the increases were long overdue. Traditionally, City Hall staff members, ranging from lawyers to secretaries, have received the same raises as members of District Council 37, the city's biggest municipal labor union. Last fall, the mayor gave the union workers back-to-back 4 percent raises, but withheld raises from managers because of the souring economy.
 As a result, aides to the mayor said, about 2,000 city workers earned more than their bosses -- making it difficult to persuade workers to take management positions, which would, in some cases, entail a pay cut. 
 In the Correction Department, for example, 12 deputy wardens made more than the 22 wardens they work for.
 With the city's budget in balance for the next year, Mr. Bloomberg said he felt ''a little more comfortable about our ability to pay'' for the raises than he did last fall. 
 Asked at a news conference on Monday on Staten Island to explain the raises, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''Most of these people, these 6,000, are middle-class people. They make from $45,000 on up.''
 Linda Barnes, executive director of the New York City Managerial Employees Association, said the raises were ''well deserved.''
 ''Managers experience the same economic distress as anyone else,'' she said. 
 Financial watchdog groups, which have long criticized the mayor for giving generous pay increases to unionized city workers, said they were equally frustrated by his raises to nonunion workers. 
 ''They are not justified,'' said Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. ''Most people in the private sector, especially in New York City, are not expecting a 4 percent increase this year. They are happy to keep their jobs. 
 The comptroller, who generally gives his staff members the same raises as City Hall workers receive, said he would withhold increases from the 110 managers in his office earning more than $90,000, saving the city $1 million. The mayor, he said, should have done the same. 
 ''I think my people understand this is a time of shared sacrifice,'' he said. ''While they are not happy, I think they understand.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said: ''If he can attract great people for less money, he should do that. That's great.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



387 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Debates Fate of CIT, A Small-Business Lender

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
The CIT Group is one of the nation's biggest lenders to small businesses. But a debate is swirling in Washington over whether it is large enough -- or important enough -- to save. 
 Regulators and company officials on Monday grappled with whether the New York-based lender should receive more government help, or whether the 101-year-old company, which has already received a $2.33 billion taxpayer lifeline, should be left to go it alone, even if that means its demise.
 At its heart, the debate is really about whether the administration will draw a line in the sand on banks considered too big to fail, and where any line should lie. 
 Since allowing Lehman Brothers to collapse last summer, federal regulators have been propping up many banks and financial institutions. The fear was that if more big players tumbled, the entire financial system would be at risk.
 CIT, however, could be the litmus test in that debate. While not small -- with $75 billion in assets it is the nation's 26th-largest bank holding company -- CIT is a small fraction of the size of Lehman or Washington Mutual, which had $639 billion and $309 billion in assets, respectively, when they failed last fall. Administration officials say they do not believe the failure of CIT would pose systemic risks, as the collapse of such institutions as Bear Stearns, Citibank and Bank of America would.
 CIT and government officials on Monday explored the possibility of federal assistance to the beleaguered company, but had made no decision by early evening.
 The situation was described as fluid, and the government could still decide to provide aid, said administration officials briefed on the situation. 
 The outcome could affect hundreds of thousands of small- and midsize businesses across the country that depend on CIT for access to loans to run their businesses.
 Unlike retail banks, which are largely financed by customer deposits, CIT raises money in the capital markets to lend. When the credit crisis hit, CIT was hobbled, and sharply reduced the credit it offered. 
 A decision to allow the company to file for bankruptcy would create a potentially awkward situation for the Obama administration. In December, at the height of the crisis, the Treasury Department rushed through an application by CIT to become a bank holding company and flooded it with billions of taxpayer dollars through the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program. 
 Then there is the issue of appearances if the administration allows a lender that services smaller companies to collapse, after stepping in to provide multiple lifelines to Citigroup, Bank of America and other troubled large financial institutions considered too important to let die.
 ''You'd have an issue of the first firm that they would make an example out of by allowing to fail is one that fills a niche and helps the little guy out,'' said Vincent R. Reinhart, a former Federal Reserve official who is now a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. At this point in the recession, small- and midsize businesses need access to critical funds as well, he said.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Monday in London that it was in the government's interest to ensure stability in the financial system. 
 ''I'm actually pretty confident in that context we have the authority and the ability to make sensible choices,'' Mr. Geithner said in response to a question at a news conference. ''We have a significant interest generally in trying to make sure the financial system gets through this, adjusts where it needs to adjust and emerges stronger.''
 But investors interpreted Mr. Geithner's comments as suggesting that the government might not be inclined to help. Still, in a sign of how resilient the financial system has become since credit markets started working again, the broad stock market rose, as did shares of other financial firms, even as CIT's stock fell 12 percent, to $1.35. Moody's Investor Service and Standard & Poor's slashed CIT's credit ratings on Monday. 
 For much of the last century, CIT engaged in the meat-and-potatoes business of providing loans and leases for heavy machinery, technology equipment and other staples of the manufacturing economy. 
 But under its current chief executive, Jeffrey M. Peek, a well-liked Wall Street veteran who lost out several years ago in a race to run Merrill Lynch, CIT made an ill-timed expansion into subprime mortgage and student lending. 
 Those two moves -- carried out at nearly the top of the frothy markets before they collapsed -- led to great losses beginning in 2007. 
 CIT has $59 billion of long-term debt, including $10 billion that matures in the next year.
 The company has also remained severely strained during the credit crisis. While it is registered as a bank holding company and has about $3 billion in deposits in a Utah-based bank, CIT has historically relied on bonds and its ability to tap into the short-term debt market for the money it lends to other companies. It has been trying to raise more money through its bank.
 And while the Federal Reserve has been extending credit directly to securities firms to stabilize the capital markets since last fall, commercial lenders like CIT are not permitted to borrow from the Fed. In a statement on Sunday evening, CIT said it was also pursing the possibility of obtaining assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation through a program that has allowed Goldman Sachs and other banks to issue their debt cheaply with the backing of the agency. 
 CIT has applied for access to the program, which provided guarantees for about $334 billion in loans as of July 9. 
 But Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., does not view the program as a bailout solution for banks and financial institutions, according to a government official briefed on the situation. Ms. Bair has said repeatedly that she views the program a tool for providing liquidity only to healthy banks.
 Perhaps more important, the program, which was set to expire this month but was recently extended until October, has plenty of other midsize banks that may need to tap it, said Kathleen Shanley, an analyst with GimmeCredit.
 ''The government still has limited resources,'' Ms. Shanley said. ''Now that a certain level of stability has been restored to the market, it may be time to signal that we can't support everyone all of the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CIT Group, a 101-year-old institution that has already received $2.33 billion from taxpayers, has $59 billion of long-term debt, including $10 billion that will mature in the next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Jeffrey M. Peek, chairman and chief executive of CIT Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RETAIL BANKING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CIT GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); CIT (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY M PEEK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



388 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth In Health Is Expected To Be Strong

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Jobs in health care and those requiring postsecondary education will show the biggest gains by 2016, according to a report released on Monday by the president's Council of Economic Advisers. 
 The report, titled ''Preparing the Workers of Today for the Jobs of Tomorrow,'' surveys previous research done on the parts of the labor force expected to grow most quickly. It then argues for ways to improve the educational system so that American workers can more readily adapt to an ever more skill-based economy.
 The report was a response, in part, to criticism of the president's $787 billion economic stimulus plan. The administration contends its plan will create millions of jobs. 
 The economy of 2016, the report says, will look very much like the economy of 2008 in terms of how workers will be distributed across major industries.
 Manufacturing will continue its long-term decline, according to the report. Business and financial services will represent a slightly smaller portion of the labor force. Construction and transportation will probably grow once the economy recovers. 
 Employment in health and education services -- which, unlike most other industries in the current recession, remains robust -- will continue to skyrocket. A subsector of health care called ''other medical services and dentists,'' which includes home health care, outpatient care and medical laboratory positions, is projected to add the most jobs.
 Environment-related occupations are also expected to grow quickly relative to the rest of the labor force.
 But over all, the biggest job growth will occur in occupations requiring higher education. 
 The rewards of education have already been well-documented. As the report notes, workers now earn about 10 percent more money for each additional of year of education they complete. In recent years, occupations with higher concentrations of college-educated workers have been growing much faster than the rest of the pack. 
 Economists expect this trend to continue, perhaps because such occupations employ a more nimble, creative work force. 
 That does not mean, though, that a bachelor's degree will become a requirement for the new economy. In fact, occupations that require only an associate's degree or a postsecondary vocational award will probably grow faster than jobs requiring a bachelor's or higher.
 Given this, the rest of the report describes goals for improving the postsecondary education system. These include improving early childhood, elementary and secondary education; better school curriculums; closer collaboration with employers to make sure students learn the skills they need on the job; better financial aid; and accountability for programs that do not work well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); CURRICULA (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



389 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Setback for Older Workers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Age Discrimination'' (editorial, July 7):
 AARP agrees with your editorial and deeply regrets the Supreme Court's ruling in Gross v. FBL Financial Services. Gross declares that older workers bringing employment discrimination claims must meet a higher standard of proof than for other types of claims, like race or sex discrimination. It will now be harder for age-discrimination victims to prove their claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. 
 The timing of this decision could not be worse -- in the midst of a severe recession, with layoffs falling hard on older workers. Since the recession began, unemployment for 55-and-over workers has jumped 143 percent. 
 It comes as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reports significant growth in the number of age-discrimination complaints. A recent AARP survey found that 60 percent of workers aged 45 to 74 had experienced or observed age discrimination.
 AARP joins The Times in urging Congress to pass legislation reversing this injustice.
 Nancy LeaMond Executive Vice President of Social Impact, AARP Washington, July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGE DISCRIMINATION (93%); OLDER WORKERS (92%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (91%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (91%); ELDER LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); LAYOFFS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



390 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Debate on Clean Energy Leads to a Regional Battle Over Jobs

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
While most lawmakers accept that more renewable energy is needed on the nation's grid, the debate over the giant climate-change and energy bill now before Congress is exposing a fundamental rift. For many players, the energy not only has to be clean and free of carbon-dioxide emissions, it also has to be generated nearby.
 The division has set off a fight between Eastern and Midwestern politicians and grid officials over parts of the bill dealing with transmission lines and solar and wind energy. Many officials, including President Obama, say that the grid is antiquated and that thousands of miles of new power lines are needed to allow construction of wind farms and solar fields in the most promising spots. Many of the best wind sites are in the Midwest, far from the electric load in populous East Coast cities. 
 An influential coalition of East Coast governors and power companies fears that building wind and solar sites in the Midwest would cause their region to miss out on jobs and other economic benefits. The coalition is therefore trying to block a mandate for transcontinental lines.
 They want the wind farms built in rural New England and offshore from Massachusetts to Delaware, and for now it appears that they may get a chance to do that. They are campaigning to keep a provision out of the legislation that would mandate a huge super-high-voltage grid, with the cost spread among millions of electric customers. 
 ''While we support the development of wind resources for the United States wherever they exist,'' the governors warned in a May 4 letter to House and Senate leaders, ''this ratepayer-funded revenue guarantee for land-based wind and other generation resources in the Great Plains would have significant, negative consequences for our region.''
 Dan W. Reicher, an assistant energy secretary in the Clinton administration who now leads energy initiatives at Google, said the debate exposed a conundrum. ''The areas with the most attractive renewable energy resources often don't overlap with the places where the push for job creation is strongest,'' Mr. Reicher said. 
 For example, a wind machine in North Dakota would produce more energy than the same machine in some Eastern states -- but energy projects tend to get built in places where they are most wanted.
 The East Coast advocates may have won a crucial first round. When the House passed its sweeping energy and climate-change bill on June 26, it included a provision that lets the federal government overrule state objections to new power lines -- but only west of the Rockies. Western states would be unlikely to oppose the new power lines in any case: the region has long been accustomed to huge generation projects built at a great distance from load centers.
 But the bill would not give the federal government a mandate to overrule the Eastern states on transmission lines. The issue will be on the table again as the Senate takes up the bill in the next few weeks. 
 A two-year effort by transmission authorities in the eastern half of the country to draw up plans for a strong grid collapsed after grid officials in New York and New England pulled out, saying that the plans were too centered on moving Midwestern energy eastward.
 In an interview, Ian A. Bowles, the Massachusetts secretary of energy and environmental affairs, said he questioned ''whether or not we need national transmission legislation at all.'' 
 Mr. Bowles suggested that all Congress needed to do was impose a cap on carbon-dioxide emissions and mandate a national renewable energy quota. Then the market could determine whether resources should be in distant spots with long transmission lines or places closer to load centers, he said. 
 The debate echoes others in past years about whether to build conventional power plants locally or build stronger connections to distant conventional plants. 
 The governors' concern, said James B. Robb, a senior vice president of Northeast Utilities, was not only the optimal cost and use of the electricity but also ''any fringes that come along with it -- the local tax base, local employment, all those kinds of things.'' 
 For years, some planners have talked about a grid powerful enough to allow for ''postage-stamp rates,'' transmission charges that are small and independent of distance, so that power will be produced wherever it is most economical, even if that is half a continent away from where it is needed. But for local economic reasons some people resisted that idea, even in the days before tapping wind on the plains and sun in the desert became a national goal.
 And a weak grid helps some electric companies. Local generators have often been able to charge more by being in the right place at the right time, with no competition because the long-distance lines are already fully loaded, experts say.
 ''When you have a constrained transmission system and you seek to unconstrain it,'' said Mary Ellen Paravalos, the vice president for transmission at National Grid, a New York and New England company, some local parties stand to lose. This is true ''even if the wider societal benefit is net positive,'' Ms. Paravalos said.
 Complicating the debate, many proposed power lines that could carry renewable energy to market could also end up carrying coal-fired power. An improved national grid would end the situation that prevails at many hours in the East today, when coal plants that can produce power cheaply sit idle while cleaner natural gas plants are running full tilt, able to sell their more expensive power because grid traffic is so bad that the coal power cannot reach the market. 
 That configuration costs consumers money but also reduces emissions of the carbon-dioxide emissions that cause climate change. So contrary to expectations, one effect of a stronger grid, although ardently sought by supporters of renewable energy, could be to push costs down but nudge coal-fired emissions up.
 But the basic conflict remains distant energy versus local energy.
 ''Some states dealing with this issue see it not only as an environmental and least-cost-supply question but also as a potential economic development tool,'' said Branko Terzic, a former member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which regulates some power lines.
 Mr. Terzic added, ''Those three goals are not always concurrent and could be in conflict.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turbine blades bound for a wind farm on Kibby Mountain, Me. The technology has changed, but energy turf wars are familiar.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL PAGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (75%); JOB CREATION (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



391 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Neither Rain, Nor Sleet, Nor Big Scary Dogs

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Bertha Farfan, 28, is a letter carrier for the United States Postal Service and has been delivering mail in New York for three years, through sleet and snow and lots and lots of summer rain. She was recently married, lives in Woodhaven, Queens, and is, for the most part, unafraid of dogs.
 Provenance: My parents were born in Ecuador, in Manta, a coastal part. My dad came here in the early '70s, my mother in the late '70s. He went back there to Ecuador to visit, and met her, and always says he fell in love blindly. I was born here, in the Bronx, in Parkchester. 
 Schooling: I'm working on a master's in elementary education at Hunter College, with an extension in bilingual; I have a choice of teaching in a regular classroom or in a bilingual setting for kids who come here and don't speak the English language yet.
 Landing the job: I used to work at Shea Stadium as a cashier and head counter. Somebody told me I should take the postal test, so I did. I did well on the exam. 
 Wakeup time: 4:20 or 4:40 in the morning. I need to get out of my house at 5:45 a.m. to take the J. It's really unpredictable. I transfer to the E at Sutphin Boulevard, get off at 23rd Street in Manhattan and walk to 12th Avenue to pick up a postal van or truck. Then I head to my station, at 42nd Street, and look for parking. Then I go upstairs and get changed into my postal clothes. 
 Do you think about the weather after you wake up? I actually do. I don't want to come unprepared. 
 Thoughts on all of this summer's rain: I see the advantages. It feeds our crops and brings us water. I just think plants need to eat, too. 
 Do you find the postal service's rainwear fashionable? No, it's not fashionable. It has red and blue lines and it's plastic.
 Your route: I'm still a substitute carrier, which means I don't have a regular route -- I come into work and I don't know where I'll be going. But I'm based at the Times Square station, so the routes are from 12th Avenue to Fifth, and 41st to 48th. 
 Are you scared of dogs? Sometimes. It depends on how big the dog is. I've been lucky. The dogs are usually accompanied by their owners and, to be honest, they've been very nice. 
 Favorite part of the job: Interacting with people. Seeing different sights, and all these enormous buildings. Yesterday I was pushing this big box through this big door at Rockefeller Center. I was struggling with it, and out of all the people passing by the one who helped me and held the door was this lady with arm braces. People can surprise you like that.
 Can you listen to music while on delivery? You're allowed, but only in one ear. I lost my headset. 
 Are there fewer letters to deliver these days? When I first came, the mail volume was a lot higher. It's because of the economy and e-mail and direct deposit. 
 Ever feel like you're about to go postal? Yes -- when you're unfamiliar with the route and you're receiving pressure and you're looking at a giant stack of mail, thinking, ''Will I ever finish?'' But I haven't gone postal. Not yet. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTILINGUALISM (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); DOGS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



392 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Women's Tour Promotes Its President to Be C.E.O.

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The WTA Tour said Monday that Stacey Allaster, the organization's president, would become its chief executive, ending a four-month search for a leader capable of steering the tour through a deep recession.
 The tour, which hosts many of the world's most prestigious women's tennis events, has faced many of the same problems that have hurt other tours, leagues and teams: a slowdown in sponsorship and advertising, weaker attendance and uneven television viewership. The tour has withstood these economic challenges better than many other sports organizations, partly because its events are spread across the globe and many of them have long-term sponsorship agreements.
 ''The sport is holding its own, but it's not recession proof,'' Allaster said in an interview, adding that only one of the tour's 51 events had to replace a title sponsor this year. ''There's no way to go through this economic crisis and not be affected, but we're weathering the storm.'' 
 Allaster faces several hurdles, including how to continue the success created by her predecessor, Larry Scott, who in March said he was leaving to run the Pacific-10 Conference. Under Scott's six-year tenure, sponsorship revenue of the WTA grew sixfold; total revenue jumped two and a half times and prize money rose 23 percent; and $750 million was invested in new stadiums.
 Attendance this year has been unchanged, Allaster said. Many fans who might have attended two or three days of an event in the past are probably attending only one day this year, she said. Fans are also buying fewer expensive tickets, she added. Some tournaments have been affected by a decline in corporate spending on hospitality.
 Another big priority will be renegotiating the tour's $88 million sponsorship deal with Sony Ericsson, which expires at the end of 2010. Allaster was encouraged that Sony Ericsson extended its sponsorship of the event in Miami through 2010, and she seemed optimistic about negotiations next year for renewing the tour sponsorship.
 Allaster was considered the leading candidate to replace Scott. She has been president of the tour since 2006 and was responsible for carrying out many of the changes made in the past few years. The changes include a five-year plan to invest in new sites, reorganizing the tour's calendar to reduce wear and tear on the athletes, and introducing live streaming of matches online. 
 Given the recent success of the tour, industry analysts said Allaster was the most logical choice.
 ''Event-driven sports that are reliant on sponsorship are incredibly vulnerable these days,'' said David Carter, a professor of sports business at Southern California. ''So when senior management changes occur in this climate, it is important to communicate continuity, demonstrate institutional knowledge and have strong working relationships with existing corporate customers. 
 ''To the extent Allaster can deliver on these fronts, the WTA should be able to focus on protecting and building its business.''
 Like Scott, Allaster must also grapple with the fallout from the Barclays Dubai Tennis Championships, where in February an Israeli player, Shahar Peer, was denied a visa and could not play. For next year, the tour has asked the hosts in Dubai to put up a $2 million letter of credit that would be lost if eligible players were not allowed entry.
 Serena and Venus Williams also continue to boycott the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells, Calif., because of the way they were treated there in 2001. Allaster did not expect that situation to change any time soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WOMEN (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



393 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Goods And Services, No Money Necessary

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
If you can teach guitar or chess, if you are very organized, if you have any talent in Web design or interior design, if you live in New York, there is no reason you should be paying for dry cleaning. 
 If you have any of those skills, but never thought they would get your suits cleaned, you probably have not been spending enough time perusing the barter classifieds on Craigslist, where this very Monday, a dry cleaner suggested that wide range of opportunities for trades of services. 
 Barter has been big business since the traditional big businesses started going belly up in October -- membership for Itex.com, a publicly traded bartering site, has skyrocketed, according to the company. And barter has been big microbusiness, too: Craigslist reports that the number of postings on its barter sections has doubled over the past year.
 The trend may be on the rise nationwide, but the local postings have a distinctly New York feel. On the Manhattan site, for example, the postings are a funny combination of newfound frugality and old-school glamour. A makeup artist who can do both a natural look and smoky eyes may not get paid for a shoot on July 15, but would be sent home with a set of portfolio photos -- and dinner. 
 Does anyone out there have a bunch of warehouse space sitting empty for the next six months? Lend it to some thrifty children's television producers, and they will make your child a star, giving the little one a spot on ''a show a lot like 'Sesame Street.' With puppets.'' A ''perfectly poor writer'' seeks a patron to provide free housing in exchange for his services as a ''second-rate handyman,'' editor or organizer. ''Rich widow mayhap?'' he throws out (an offer that all the rich widows scanning the Craigslist barter classifieds surely could not resist). 
 The ripple effect of the thud of the Manhattan housing market can also be traced on the site. Someone who usually does high-end house painting ''as a subcontractor on multimillion dollar apartments on Park/Madison/5th Avenue'' is now willing to trade his luxury services for some dental work. 
 On the Brooklyn site, the offerings have a grittier feel. A month or so back, someone was trying to unload some OxyContin in exchange for tattoo work -- but this was a drug pusher with a conscience: ''Please do not email me if you're a drug addict,'' read the listing. (It is offers like that one that presumably explain the phone menu message you get when you call Craigslist headquarters in San Francisco: ''If you are calling from law enforcement,'' it directs callers, press 4.)
 Some of the postings have a whimsical, why-bother note, like the one from Manhattan seeking someone to dye some nice, old stained French shirts; the shirts' owner, in exchange, offers free photography services -- those had better be some outstanding photography services.
 AND other postings speak to the down-and-out desperation of life in many quarters in this economy, like one on the Brooklyn site seeking housing in exchange for elder care or cooking or cleaning or repair work or errand-running or gardening or yardwork. ''As of today, I am HOMELESS,'' wrote Ken Long, an out-of-work assistant to housing builders who posted the offer on July 12. Reached by phone, Mr. Long said he had been evicted from his home in Sheepshead Bay, and had been sleeping on the street for the past week. Since he started posting a few weeks ago, he said, he has received about six calls inquiring about his offer, but none have panned out. ''I'm having trouble finding a job,'' he said. ''I have no money. The market for what I do is all dried up.'' 
 Maybe Craigslist isn't just a tool to help ease the pain of the most recent economic meltdown. In his book ''Life Inc.,'' the writer Doug Rushkoff argues that an economy open to alternative means of exchange like barter would be less vulnerable to the kind of financial mess we're experiencing now. Mr. Rushkoff, who is a neighbor and friend of mine, said that he has tried to pitch Craig Newmark, the founder of Craigslist, on the idea of something he calls ''craigsbucks,'' an alternative currency, one that people wouldn't have to borrow from banks. ''What Craigslist did to newspapers,'' he says, ''will be nothing compared to what it does to the banks.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (78%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (75%); TRENDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CHILDREN (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (65%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (64%); WRITERS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



394 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Drawing Critics, China Seeks to Dominate in Renewable Energy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
 When the United States' top energy and commerce officials arrive in China on Tuesday, they will land in the middle of a building storm over China's protectionist tactics to become the world's leader in renewable energy.
Calling renewable energy a strategic industry, China is trying hard to make sure that its companies dominate globally. Just as Japan and South Korea made it hard for Detroit automakers to compete in those countries -- giving their own automakers time to amass economies of scale in sheltered domestic markets -- China is shielding its clean energy sector while it grows to a point where it can take on the world.
 Steven Chu, the American energy secretary, and Gary Locke, the commerce secretary, are coming here to discuss clean energy and global warming with Chinese leaders, and to see if progress can be made toward getting China to agree to specific targets for reductions in greenhouse gases. Agreement proved elusive during the Group of 8 summit meeting last week in Italy. 
 But Mr. Chu and Mr. Locke arrive as Western companies, especially Europeans, are complaining increasingly about Beijing's green protectionism. 
 China has built the world's largest solar panel manufacturing industry by exporting over 95 percent of its output to the United States and Europe. But when China authorized its first solar power plant this spring, it required that at least 80 percent of the equipment be made in China.
 When the Chinese government took bids this spring for 25 large contracts to supply wind turbines, every contract was won by one of seven domestic companies. All six multinationals that submitted bids were disqualified on various technical grounds, like not providing sufficiently detailed data.
 This spring, the Chinese government banned virtually any installation of wind turbines with a capacity of less than 1,000 kilowatts -- excluding 850-kilowatt designs, a popular size for European manufacturers. 
 Lu Hong, the program officer for renewable energy in the Beijing office of the Energy Foundation, a nonprofit group seeking to support sustainable energy, said that China was willing to invest heavily in renewable energy industries, even though wind and solar energy costs are higher than for coal, precisely because it helps the Chinese economy.
 ''The Chinese government won't consider such a big solar industry without considering the building up of the domestic industry,'' she said, adding that China's policies will also help address global warming.
 Zhou Heliang, the president of the China Electrotechnical Society, a government entity that plays a broad role in national and provincial technology policy, predicted at the Wind Power Asia conference here on Friday that Chinese-owned companies would increase their share of the Chinese market by an additional 10 or 20 percentage points this year. 
 That would give them almost three-quarters of the domestic market, compared with a quarter for European and American companies -- the reverse of the ratio four years ago.
 This year, China passed the United States as the world's largest market for wind energy. It is now building six wind farms with a capacity of 10,000 to 20,000 megawatts apiece, using extensive low-interest loans from state-owned banks.
 By comparison, T. Boone Pickens delayed his plans to build a 4,000-megawatt wind farm in Texas, once promoted as the world's largest.
 Some foreign companies, particularly European businesses, are starting to express misgivings about China's promotion of the local manufacturers.
 European wind turbine makers have stopped even bidding for some Chinese contracts after concluding that their bids would not be seriously considered, said Jorg Wuttke, the president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China.
 European turbine manufacturers are especially disappointed because they built factories in China in order to comply with the country's requirement that turbines contain 70 percent local content, Mr. Wuttke said. Yet all the multinational manufacturers were disqualified on technical grounds within three days of bidding for wind farm contracts this spring, even as Chinese companies that had never built a turbine were approved, he said.
 European solar power companies are also unhappy. ''This is not a level playing field,'' said Boris Klebensberger, the chief operating officer of SolarWorld AG, which is based in Bonn.
 Mr. Wuttke said he was encouraged that Premier Wen Jiabao of China told Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany in a telephone call on June 25 that China would not discriminate against foreign enterprises, according to the official Xinhua news agency. 
 But no new Chinese renewable energy regulations have been issued since then on local content requirements or other rules.
 American companies play a smaller role in the global renewable energy industry, but some of them are also growing exasperated with the Chinese market. ''That has been a tough market for non-Chinese manufacturers,'' said Victor Abate, General Electric's vice president for wind energy.
 Kevin Griffis, a Commerce Department spokesman, said that the agency had not heard from American companies about difficulties in the Chinese market for renewable energy.
 ''Generally speaking,'' Mr. Griffis said, ''we support a business environment that is open, transparent, and fair so that all companies are able to compete based on product performance, not country of origin.''
 World Trade Organization rules ban countries from using local content requirements to force companies like the wind turbine manufacturers to set up factories in a country instead of exporting to it. But much of China's power industry, although publicly traded, is majority owned by the government.
 While China promised to sign the W.T.O. side agreement on government procurement ''as soon as possible'' when it joined the free trade group in 2001 and won low-tariff access to foreign markets, it has never actually signed the side agreement. So its huge state sector remains largely exempt from international trade rules.
 Other rules are also making it hard for foreign manufacturers and investors to compete in China.
 China's renewable energy standard requires that renewable energy account for at least 3 percent of the generating capacity of each large power company, excluding hydroelectric power, by the end of next year. But the rules do not dictate how much electricity must actually be generated from that capacity.
 So power companies have an incentive to buy the cheapest wind turbines available, so as to increase their renewable energy capacity -- even if the turbines break down frequently and do not produce that much electricity.
 Turbines from Chinese-owned companies tend to have slightly lower purchase prices than foreign-brand turbines, but have higher repair costs, so the life cycle costs are similar, according to Chinese experts. United Nations data from the trading of carbon credits shows that the Chinese-brand turbines produce less electricity because they are more frequently out of action.
 Financial regulations for wind farms also make it harder for foreign-owned farms than domestic-owned farms to borrow money or to sell carbon credits. Even well-connected international funds like Nature Elements Capital have to look hard for projects, while less-connected funds have struggled to find any at all.
 Mr. Zhou said that China was also working hard to develop its own capability to manufacture high-tech materials that can withstand the torque, humidity and other stresses that affect wind turbines.
 Two American companies are leading suppliers of materials: PPG Industries of Pittsburgh, the leading maker of fiberglass and protective coatings for the wind turbine housings and blades, and the Zoltek Corporation of Bridgeton, Mo., the world's dominant supplier of carbon fiber for the support struts inside the most high-tech blades.
 A report last month by IHS, a global data company, concluded that Chinese wind turbine makers would soon start exporting. That is because Chinese wind farm installations could level off temporarily as the power grid struggles to install enough high-power lines to use all the electricity wind produces.
 Asked whether European turbine manufacturers risked sharing Detroit's overconfidence in the 1970s in the face of challenges from Japan, Mr. Wuttke said that European makers believed that their reputations for quality and reliability would protect them.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Tuesday about China's efforts to become a leader in renewable energy misstated a government requirement affecting its first solar power plant. The government required that at least 80 percent of the equipment for the plant be made in China -- not 80 percent of the solar panels. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Energy Secretary Steven Chu will discuss global warming with Chinese officials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
The Daliang Wind Station located outside of Anxi in Gansu Province. China is now building six wind farms with a capacity of 10,000 to 20,000 megawatts apiece.
A worker on a wind turbine at China's Xiang Yang Windfarm, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARIANA LINDQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, right, may discuss complaints of ''green'' protectionism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); STATISTICS (71%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (88%); STEVEN CHU (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); GANSU, CHINA (58%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009



395 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure, Bivens Decides to Resign as Commissioner of the L.P.G.A.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
Carolyn Bivens resigned Monday as the commissioner of the L.P.G.A. Tour, bowing to pressure from players who were upset about the L.P.G.A.'s economic situation and her leadership. 
 Marsha Evans, a retired rear admiral in the Navy who also has led the American Red Cross, will be the interim commissioner. She will serve until the L.P.G.A. board finds a replacement, which it expects to do by the end of the year. Bivens's departure seemed increasingly likely after a group of players wrote a letter last week to the tour's board calling for her to quit.
 ''We reached a point which made it difficult for Carolyn herself to see herself going forward and being able to lead in this environment,'' said Dawn Hudson, the board chairwoman.
 Hudson said the resignation was a mutual decision between Bivens and the board. She praised Bivens for helping the tour ''think big'' even as the economy worsened.
 The tour has lost seven tournaments since 2007, and Bivens was criticized last year when she proposed a policy requiring tour players to speak English. It was never instituted. 
 ''I love the L.P.G.A. and have been proud to serve as its commissioner for the last four years,'' Bivens said in a statement, adding, ''It is time to turn this organization over to someone who can build on the solid foundation we've established.''
 Evans has limited experience in professional golf. She began serving on the L.P.G.A. board this year. She was also on an L.P.G.A. commissioner's advisory council in 2007 and 2008.
 ''What I would hope during this period when I have the privilege of serving is that we can move beyond the controversies and really focus on the players,'' Evans said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GOLF (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



396 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: 7 U.S. Soldiers and Linguist Wounded in Iraq

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Reporting was contributed by Riyadh Mohammed and Abeer Mohammed from Baghdad and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Mosul and Kirkuk.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Seven American soldiers and a linguist traveling with them were wounded in a bomb blast as they walked out of a meeting with local government officials in northern Iraq, a United States military spokesman said Monday. 
 The attack occurred Sunday afternoon in Al Sharqat, a town about 200 miles north of Baghdad, but was not reported by the United States military until the following day.
 The soldiers had traveled to the town, in generally peaceful Salahuddin Province, to discuss possible United States military participation in several projects, including renovating schools and medical centers, said Lt. Sean P. Riordan, a military spokesman in Baghdad. They were transported to a nearby base for treatment, but the extent of their injuries was not immediately known.
 American combat troops pulled out of most Iraq cities and towns on June 30, but some remain as trainers and advisers. The military did not comment on what capacity the troops in Al Sharqat were working in.
 Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, arrived in the northern city of Kirkuk on Monday on a previously unannounced visit to meet Iraqi and American political and security officials. Kirkuk, contested by Arabs, Kurds and Turkmen, sits atop billions of barrels of oil and is among the most violent places in Iraq.
 Despite a sharp drop in violence across Iraq in the past 18 months, bombings and other insurgent attacks continue. On Monday, a roadside bomb in Baghdad wounded seven people, including three police officers. In the restive northern city of Mosul, two bombings killed three Iraqi soldiers, and a sniper shot and killed an Iraqi police officer.
 Vehicles in Mosul were banned from entering predominately Christian neighborhoods on Monday after officials received reports that insurgents had prepared car bombs to be detonated near churches, Iraqi security officials said. The warning came a day after bombs aimed at five Christian churches in Baghdad exploded, killing at least four people. The authorities in Mosul searched cars but found no explosives, officials said. 
 A report issued recently by the Iraq Planning Ministry, meanwhile, painted a grim picture of life in the country, saying shortages of clean water and food were growing worse.
 The report found that life expectancy had fallen to 58 years in 2008 -- seven years shorter than during the height of the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s. Rates of poverty, tuberculosis, hunger, unemployment and infant mortality have all increased substantially.
 ''Iraqis are not living in a condition fit for the 21st century,'' said the planning minister, Ali Ghalib Baban. The minister estimated that Iraq needed $400 billion to rebuild water treatment plants, bridges, and other infrastructure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); SHOOTINGS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (69%); VEHICLE SEARCH (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (69%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); RELIGION (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); WATER QUALITY (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); POVERTY RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



397 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: On This Day, Players Rule The L.P.G.A.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When Carolyn Bivens was hired in 2005 as the commissioner of the L.P.G.A., she had made a breakthrough, becoming the first woman to lead the oldest women's sports organization in the United States. It was heralded as a sign of empowerment, a forceful female executive who was ready to govern and lead a professional sports organization to success in the rigorous world of sports entertainment.
 The historic era did not last long. The L.P.G.A. ended weeks of acrimony between Bivens and some players on Monday by announcing Bivens's resignation. On a day of sweeping changes, the L.P.G.A. named Marsha Evans, a retired rear admiral in the Navy and an L.P.G.A. board member, as the interim commissioner. 
 ''This is not the way that I think anybody wants to leave an organization,'' Bivens said Monday during a telephone interview. Asked if she thought she had been treated fairly, Bivens said: ''I grew up in the business world and 'fair,' I'm not sure, has a place in the business vernacular. It's not a word that I use very often.''
 But the controversy surrounding Bivens and her relationship with some players and some board members may be less about golf than about the challenge for women's sports organizations as they fight for respectability and a share of the male-dominated sports market. As the men prepare for this week's prestigious British Open, the L.P.G.A. undergoes yet another change of leadership as it looks for its third commissioner in 10 years. 
 Bivens was a consummate businesswoman and dealmaker who was hired to enhance the L.P.G.A.'s fortunes with an aggressive approach to raising prize money and changing the mind-set of a sport that survived but didn't necessarily thrive. She was hired to help the L.P.G.A. think big, though Bivens said Monday that some players had had reservations about hiring a woman. 
 ''It was controversial among some of the players,'' Bivens said, adding that players weren't sure whether or not they wanted a woman commissioner. ''They understood the world of sport and especially the world of golf was male-dominated. I found that strange, but a lot of them were up front about that.
 ''I hope that breaking that barrier is something that my tenure is remembered for,'' Bivens said.
 ''One of the things I have enjoyed in the speculation over the course of the last few days is that many of the candidates for my replacement are women,'' she said.
 Bivens fought tenaciously for higher women's purses, a stance some say prompted tournament sponsors to lobby high-profile players for her removal. 
 At least one player, Juli Inkster, thought that Bivens's aggressive approach might have turned off some sponsors. 
 ''I think Carolyn got a bum rap right away because she was a woman in a man's world,'' Inkster said. ''I don't think she got respect back.''
 Ultimately, a core of high-profile players, citing declining revenue, a reduction of tournaments, and several public-relations gaffes, called for Bivens to step down. 
 Bivens certainly had her moments. 
 She barred photographers at a tournament because she wanted the L.P.G.A. to own the rights to all the photographs. 
 Under her watch, the L.P.G.A. contemplated a policy requiring that all players speak English by 2009 or face suspension. The tour improperly held a mandatory meeting with South Korean players about the idea. The L.P.G.A. quickly reversed its position on the requirement after public outrage. 
 In May, Bivens suggested that players might consider Twittering during competitions. The idea was met with wide criticism from players. 
 Although Bivens's resignation may provide short-term satisfaction, the long-term effect could force the L.P.G.A. into chaos at the worst possible time.
 The next commissioner will inherit an organization that competes in a catastrophic economy, an organization that has lost sponsors, had purses reduced and had one of its greatest stars, Annika Sorenstam, retire. The L.P.G.A. also announced that Sorenstam, who won 10 major tournaments, would be an adviser to its board of directors. 
 The forced resignation of the organization's first female commissioner is a pronouncement about the perils of competing for dollars in a male-dominated sports landscape and the pitfall of leading an organization in which players have too much control over areas where they have limited expertise. 
 ''What happened over the course of the last 10 days at the L.P.G.A. is cyclical,'' Bivens said. ''We have a governance issue. How we are run and the constitution of the L.P.G.A. is a problem, not just for me, not just for the former commissioners, but for current and former board members. 
 ''Being an active player and trying to govern an organization don't go together,'' she said. ''They are absolutely counterintuitive. They fight each other.'' 
 That may be true. But in a classic and perhaps instructive power struggle, a sports commissioner took on the players. On Monday, the players won.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carolyn Bivens, left, stepped down as L.P.G.A. commissioner on Monday, and Marsha Evans was appointed in the interim. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SAM GREENWOOD/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (95%); SPORTS (94%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN (86%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (70%); TOURNAMENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



398 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: CSX Results, Off 20%, Beat Forecasts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The railroad operator CSX said Monday that second-quarter earnings fell 20 percent as it collected fewer fuel surcharges and shipments continued to drop. 
 The results still topped Wall Street's expectations, as the company reduced expenses by 27 percent.
 The company, which is based in Jacksonville, Fla., said it earned $308 million, or 78 cents a share, compared with $385 million, or 93 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter.
 Excluding charges related to the money-losing Greenbrier resort that the company sold, earnings from continuing operations were 72 cents a share versus 95 cents a share last year.
 Revenue fell 25 percent, to $2.19 billion.
 Analysts expected profit of 62 cents a share on revenue of $2.27 billion, according to Thomson Reuters.
 CSX's shipping volume fell 21 percent in the period, compared with a 22 percent drop industrywide. Railroad shipping volumes are viewed as a critical economic indicator because so many consumer and manufactured goods are moved on the tracks.
 ''While the economy continues to significantly impact our business, there are some signs that we may be seeing the bottom in many markets,'' said Michael Ward, CSX's chief executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CSX CORP (92%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (92%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J WARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



399 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Shares Climb on Optimism Over Bank Earnings

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Investors drove stocks higher on Monday after news surrounding Goldman Sachs sent financial stocks on an upswing and the optimism spilled into the wider market.
 Despite a poor overnight showing in Asian markets and questions about the future of the CIT Group, investors responded in droves after a prominent banking analyst, Meredith Whitney, issued a buy recommendation for Goldman's shares on Monday morning. 
 Shares of Goldman Sachs climbed $7.57, or 5.3 percent, to close at $149.44. Among other financial stocks, Bank of America jumped $1.11, or 9.3 percent, to $12.99, while JPMorgan Chase gained $2.37, or 7.3 percent, to $34.71.
 The stock market moved ahead briskly as confidence spread from financial stocks to many other sectors. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 185.16 points, or 2.27 percent, to end at 8,331.68. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 21.92 points, or 2.49 percent, to 901.05, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 37.18 points, or 2.12 percent, to 1,793.21.
 Ms. Whitney has gained a reputation in recent years as a generally bearish but keen observer of bank stocks. Throughout the day, her comments were parsed and scrutinized on trading desks, and analysts said that beyond Goldman, she withheld a positive outlook on the broader banking sector.
 The market rally came so suddenly that some traders wondered if it was justified.
 ''She wasn't exactly bullish on the market,'' said Joseph Saluzzi of Themis Trading. ''I think people got a little ahead of themselves. This could've been a one-day wonder.''
 Still, investors sought any cause for optimism after several weeks of losses threatened to dash Wall Street's hopes that the Obama administration's $787 million stimulus plan would be adequate to revive the economy. A slew of strong earnings reported in the coming days would deflect some of those doubts.
 Among the major banks announcing their results this week, Goldman Sachs is set to report on Tuesday and JPMorgan Chase on Thursday. Bank of America and Citigroup wrap up the week on Friday.
 And while Goldman may clearly emerge to be Wall Street's best performer in the last quarter, analysts sense a good week ahead for financial companies.
 ''The bar has been set pretty low, so it would seem there's a better chance of an upside surprise,'' said Alan Gayle of Ridgeworth Capital Management. ''But a lot of focus is going to be in the details.''
 Meanwhile, shares of the CIT Group fell 11.8 percent, or 18 cents, to $1.35. The New York-based lender urged regulators over the weekend to allow it to issue federally backed debt to stave off a looming liquidity crisis, but the government appeared unconvinced that CIT's possible collapse would widely damage the economy. The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, told reporters in London that he was monitoring the situation and that the federal government had ''the authority and the ability'' to confront the issue. 
 Bond prices fell on Monday afternoon. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 12/32, to 98 4/32, and the yield rose to 3.35 percent, from 3.30 percent late Friday. 
 In the commodity markets, crude oil futures for August delivery fell 20 cents, to $59.69 a barrel.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the stock markets' performance on Monday misstated the size of the Obama administration's economic stimulus plan. It is a $787 billion program, not $787 million.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CIT GROUP INC (58%); RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CIT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (58%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (74%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009



400 of 862 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: A Pest From Yesteryear, Bed Bugs Travel Nowadays

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
JANET HILOWITZ told me about a recent ''lousy experience'' in a motel, and sent me photos of nasty red welts on her arms and legs to prove it.
 Ms. Hilowitz, a retired college professor from Massachusetts, was actually referring not to lice but to bed bugs, which bit her arms and legs one night in a Georgia motel during a road trip with her husband.
 The next morning, after she checked out of the motel and got on the road, the pain and itching began. ''I discovered I had been bitten all over,'' she said. She found a drug store and asked the pharmacist to look at the welts on her arms and legs. 
 Yep, bed bugs. The prescription was Benadryl and hydrocortisone, and a warning that she would probably feel uncomfortable for three days.
 ''This was my first experience with bed bugs,'' said Ms. Hilowitz, who was still angry when I spoke to her, weeks after the pain and swelling went away.
 Yes, bed bugs are back -- not just in apartment buildings, but also in hospitals and hotels and motels. A familiar pest before World War II, the little red-brown insects were driven into relative obscurity in the United States by pesticides like DDT -- which was largely banned in the 1970s. 
 They've revived as pest control experts began using less toxic chemicals to combat other insects. 
 ''In recent years, bed bugs have made a comeback in the United States,'' according to Michael F. Potter, a professor of entomology at the University of Kentucky. 
 In the case of hotels, increased international travel is also partly to blame, since bed bugs remain prevalent elsewhere and are very adept at hitchhiking in suitcase crevices. At the same time, hotel housekeeping departments have switched to new, more environmentally friendly cleaning and pesticide products, and experts say this may have left an opening for patient and wily bed bugs. 
 They like to lurk in bedding and even in headboards. Like movie vampires, they are active in the dead of night. 
 There is a Web site, 
 www.BedbugRegistry.com, with national bed bug alerts. While most reports are about economy or midlevel roadside hotels where housekeeping standards may be less strict, well-known big-city four-star hotels also occasionally turn up.
 A young woman reported on the Web site that she was confounded by her bed bug bites in a Texas hotel. ''I Googled all kinds of rashes and couldn't be sure what was wrong with me,'' until she stumbled across bed bug information, she wrote. ''I didn't even know they were real. I mean, I had heard, 'Good night, don't let the bed bugs bite,' but didn't know they actually existed.''
 The industry, while cringing at the very word, seems to be facing the bed bug issue head on, while insisting that the problem is not confined to hotels and is not widespread. 
 The New York State Hospitality and Tourism Association, for example, whose members include 1,000 hotels and other lodgings properties, scheduled a Web seminar on bed bugs for late this month. Its president, Dan Murphy, called it a ''proactive'' initiative for members who ''want to learn more about how to spot, treat and cope with'' bed bugs.
 Ms. Hilowitz, the retired professor, said that she was rebuffed when she asked for a refund from the Rodeway Inn in Brunswick, Ga., where she had been bitten. She was told she needed to provide a doctor's prescription, and she refused to go to a doctor while on a road trip. She then wrote to Choice Hotels, whose brands include Rodeway as well as Comfort Inn, Clarion, EconoLodge and others. 
 ''The money was like 50 bucks,'' Ms. Hilowitz said. ''This wasn't about the money.''
 She eventually got a refund, including reimbursement for the room and the medicine. 
 ''When incidents that affect the guest experience occur at an individual franchised hotel, it is the local owner's (i.e, the franchisee's) responsibility to responsibly deal with these situations,'' a spokesman for Choice, David Peikin, said in an e-mail response. 
 The chain offers franchise owners ''ongoing professional development and training'' in areas like customer service and housekeeping, he said, and ''maintains and enforces a series of brand standards.'' He added, ''We take customer service issues very seriously.''
 Evidently, so does the hotel owner in Georgia. Neel Patel, the front desk manager at the Rodeway Inn in Brunswick, said that a ''misunderstanding'' caused confusion over issuing a refund. He also said that after Ms. Hilowitz's complaint, the hotel -- owned by his uncle -- sent him and other employees to state-sponsored training for certification in coping with and preventing bed bugs. The hotel also installed bug-proof mattress covers on all beds. 
 ''We wanted to prevent this from ever happening in the future,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED BUGS (94%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (89%); ENTOMOLOGY (77%); BITES & STINGS (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (74%); PHARMACIES (74%); PHARMACISTS (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); WEB SITES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

 
