

601 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Away From the TV Cameras, Fire Consumes Apache Land 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: CIBECUE, Ariz., June 26 

 BODY:
"Pray for rain," say the signs posted along the Fort Apache Indian Reservation roads. The springs are drying up here, and the forest is an angry inferno.
 The monsoons are supposed to arrive next week but there are no signs that they will get here soon. 
 The medicine man has called for a rain ceremony tonight, the first in years.
While national attention is focused on the threat Arizona's wildfires pose to Show Low, the resort town 40 miles northeast of here, the blaze has already brought widespread and lasting economic damage to Apache country. 
Questions over the origin of the fire have also rekindled longstanding tensions between the white and the Indian communities.
Consider that both the Rodeo and Chediski fires started here last week on the White Mountain Apache territory, home to 13,500 people. The fires have merged, sending anvil-like clouds high into the sky and casting flames across the vista. Sixty percent of the fire is on Indian land. Of the 350,000 acres of timber already destroyed, more than 200,000 are here on this 1.6 million-acre reservation.
The tribal economy is devastated. This is the time when the trees are supposed to be harvested but that will not happen. More than $300 million worth of timber has been turned to ash. The sawmills have shut down and 300 people are out of work.
"No water and it hurts," said Johnny Endfield, vice chairman of the White Mountain Apache, who had just toured the southern flank of the Chediski fire, which was caused by a hiker lost in the woods.
"That timber has been here since before our time," Mr. Endfield said. "And in less than 30 minutes it's all gone. Gone for us and gone for our unborn." 
While 5 percent of the fire is under control, officials said, it seems to be sprawling in every direction. "It's still going to be a long time -- several days -- before we get the upper hand on this fire," Jim Paxon, a spokesman for the United States Forest Service, said. 
Flames spun by the wind continued to move northwest near Heber-Overgaard, where 10 homes were destroyed on Monday. 
"It's nothing but a wall of smoke and we can't see nothing," said Richardson Antonio, an Apache firefighter and division supervisor in the area, speaking by cellphone from near Heber-Overgaard. "We got to get the hell out of here," he said. "It looks like it took out houses down by the stand of ponderosa trees."
To the south, spot fires regained momentum as the winds continued to gust at 20 miles per hour. The area is covered in a thick, white ash, making it look like an Ansel Adams winterscape. Normally nocturnal coyote, elk and rabbits skittered across the bulldozed roads in the middle of the day, a bad sign, the Apaches said.
About 1,500 firefighters are battling the blaze on the southern and western flanks, about 2,500 north and east around the towns of Show Low, Heber-Overgaard and Pinedale, officials said. They are Indians and white people, college students and full-time, professional firefighters.
Linton Ethelbah, a firefighter with Fort Apache Engine 407, and his four-man crew were battling the flames with a pumper truck on Tuesday. Life here cannot exist without trees, he explained. Without their shade, people are naked and exposed. A fire-starting thunderbolt, a camp fire, a flare can be a cataclysm because a man cannot survive longer than his shadow.
"This is the strangest fire I ever seen," said Mr. Ethelbah, who explained how the Chediski fire had chased him and his crew up a bluff last week. "It's just tremendous; half the size of Rhode Island they tell me."
Tim Rash, a white man and a firefighter with the Bureau of Land Management, was clearing underbrush near the Apache crew as trees exploded like popcorn kernels. He does the job for thrills. "I saw a fire like this once in 1988 in Yosemite," Mr. Rash said. "You know what we did? We let it burn until the snows came."
Although the Yosemite decision proved wise, as the national park is green and thriving again, letting their forests burn is not an option for the Apache people. To let the forest burn will mean economic ruin. The Hon Dah Resort and Casino, the second-largest employer in the White Mountain region after the county government, brings in more than $130 million a year, and is now closed for what is normally its busiest season. 
The tribe also operates Sun Rise Ski Resort. "We sell our beautiful lakes and streams to tourists," Roger Leslie, the general manager of the resort, said. "We don't know what we'll have until the smoke clears."
Other potential losses of income come from the damage to wildlife. The tribe sold about 65 permits to hunt elk on the reservation last year at an average price of $15,000. There are also bear and mountain lion hunts. The hunting grounds are in the area of the Chediski fire, along with a sacred lake, burial grounds and archeological sites. 
There is an undertone of ill will running throughout the region. Indians feel sorry about the fire, the bigger one started north of the Red Dust Rodeo Grounds here, and word on the reservation is that it was set by a teenager from the Cibecue community. While authorities continue to investigate the fire's origin, resentment is growing among white people in some northern towns. Threatening messages have been left on the answering machine of Dallas Massey, the tribal chairman, laying blame for the fire at the feet of the Apache. Off-handed racial slurs have been tossed at the Indians shopping in the discount stores in the area, accusing them of intellectual inferiority. These people seem to forget that the Chediski fire was started by a white woman, lost in the wilderness, who lighted an illegal fire to attract the attention of a news helicopter.
Few reporters have come to the reservation. Little emergency aid has been sent to White River, the seat of tribal government, though 1,500 Apaches have been evacuated from their homes. Some are staying at the Chief Alchesay Activity Center, some with relatives on the reservation, some in tent cities near the trickling rivers.
President Bush did not set foot here on his visit on Tuesday although dozens of Indians stood in the afternoon sun along Highway 60 at the rumor that he might drive through.
"We've done all we could," said Herbert Tate, a board member of the Fort Apache Timber Company, explaining that the Apache forests are not clearcut, but are thinned and managed year round. "We were burning out underbrush last year until residents of Phoenix complained that the smoke was drifting into the city and making their air quality poor," Mr. Tate said. "The problem is not management. The problem is a lack of water."
So now the region's air is thick with smoke from the early summer's fires. Despite the drought, sprinklers continued to feed the suburban lawns in Phoenix last night.
Meanwhile back at the fire camp, the men stretched out on the roofs of their trucks, staring at the 300-foot flames devouring the timber line along the ridges. Lightning was predicted for the morning, they were told.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Smoke rose yesterday over an abandoned farmhouse on the Fort Apache Indian Reservation in Arizona. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1); A Forest Service employee inspected charred ground yesterday on the Fort Apache Indian Reservation, which has borne the brunt of the wildfire.; A firefighter works on the Fort Apache Indian Reservation, which has lost more than 200,000 acres of forest to wildfires that continue to rage in Arizona. The tribe's economic base of timber and tourism has been hit hard. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A24) Map of Arizona highlighting wildfire area: About 60 percent of the wildfire scorching Arizona is on Indian land. (pg. A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); FOREST FIRES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FIRES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); HIKING (73%); SPORT HUNTING (71%); SAW MILLS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) FIRES AND FIREMEN; HUNTING AND TRAPPING; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; APACHE INDIANS; LOGGING INDUSTRY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) ARIZONA; FORT APACHE INDIAN RESERVATION (ARIZ); SHOW LOW (ARIZ)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



602 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Diplomacy: You Give, I Give 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Dennis Ross (Op-Ed, June 26) and the Bush administration persist in the belief that there is a political solution to the Middle East. But a political solution does not exist, or if it does exist, no one has ever been able to find the magic formula. 
 Perhaps a solution lies in economics, not a free-market approach but an organized development effort across all of Palestine and the rest of the Middle East organized by the United States, the Saudis and the Kuwaitis.
This would include clean water, new housing construction, new schools, sufficient electricity and new roads.
Perhaps when the Palestinians have something to lose, they will tone down the political rhetoric and build a lasting relationship with their prosperous neighbor. Then perhaps the political rhetoric and the violence will be toned down to a point where a political settlement is possible.

WILLIAM M. PINZLER
New York, June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



603 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6459 words

HEADLINE: Spotting Breast Cancer: Doctors Are Weak Link 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL MOSS 

 BODY:
Ten years after the federal government set out to clean up a mammography industry awash in scandal, many women are still getting inaccurate examinations at clinics bearing the federal seal of approval. 
 The federal mammography standards have eliminated many of the most egregious abuses and have made the breast X-rays much easier to read. But an examination by The New York Times has found that they have largely failed to remedy what many experts say is the biggest problem of all: the skill of the doctors who interpret those X-ray films. 
 For the last year or so, scientists have been engaged in a highly technical, and high-profile, debate about how many lives mammography screening can save. But The Times found that many doctors, and their clinics, are compromising whatever precise value mammography has. 
New and little-noticed research is revealing that radiologists miss far more tumors than previously assumed. Many of them simply lack the ability to discern the elusive signs of breast cancer in the shadows and swirls of a mammogram, widely regarded as the hardest task in all of radiology. 
Yet the government, by its own admission, holds the doctors to only minimum standards. Little specialized training is required. While studies indicate that doctors need to read at least 2,500 films each year to stay sharp, the government mandates a mere 480, a number many experts say is so low as to be virtually meaningless. 
Most important, the government does not monitor the doctors' performance. Even those who miss far more than their share of cancers tend to remain unidentified and beyond regulatory reach. In fact, the doctors themselves rarely know with any precision whether they are doing a good job or not. 
And the women are often left to fend for themselves. 
"It's what I call radiologist roulette," says Trisha Edgerton, a physicist who used to run the mammography oversight program in California. 
In a sense, that is simply the way most of medicine works. Except for the clearest cases of criminality or gross incompetence, doctors have always pretty much policed themselves. But mammography was supposed to be different; it was, after all, the great public-health hope of the politically charged war on breast cancer.
So, in the early 90's, the government embarked on an extraordinary experiment: a system of national standards to ensure accurate screening for the more than 30 million women who had mammograms each year. At a time of rising furor about doctor competency and medical errors, many people believed that the experiment might become a template for other precincts of medicine as well. 
Today, at government-certified clinics all over the country, women can pick up official pamphlets assuring them that "your mammogram will be safe and of high quality." Congress is about to extend the program for five more years. 
But the inside story of that regulatory experiment -- based on hundreds of interviews with doctors, experts and regulators over the course of a year -- is a chronicle of opportunities lost. Far from ensuring high-quality mammography for all, many experts acknowledge, the system has promoted mediocre care for all but an elite, or just plain lucky, few. 
Ms. Edgerton, the former California official, still likes to talk to women about the danger of walking into a clinic and simply trusting that the radiologist will be a specialist at mammography. That was what she did 10 years ago, and the doctor, a specialist in diagnosing brain cancers, missed an obvious tumor in her breast. 
"We fixed a lot of loopholes, and now we can fix the next one," she says. "It's the radiologist."
It is not that the federal officials who wrote the rules were unconcerned about doctor competency. In fact, they were so worried that they considered ordering a two-step system of oversight: regular skills tests and a mechanism to track doctors and identify those who did not measure up. But they abandoned those proposals amid fierce resistance from doctors and their allies. 
In the end, the rules dealt primarily with the X-ray machines and images. The 20,000 doctors who read mammograms could go on regulating themselves. 
Now the precise contours of the problem are beginning to emerge, as a small but growing number of researchers and state officials start doing what the federal government declined to do: keep track of the doctors. 
Women have long been told that mammography is an imperfect tool, that even the best doctors, under ideal conditions, will miss as many as 1 in 10 potentially visible cancers. But new studies in North Carolina and New Hampshire have found that doctors' skills vary widely; some clinics miss nearly 4 tumors in 10. In New York, health officials analyzing data from a government program for poor women stumbled across a Bronx radiologist, fully qualified under federal rules, who they say missed 25 cancers over two years while catching only 7. 
These findings come at a particularly sensitive time for mammography. 
Even among radiologists, mammography has always been something of a low-status medical specialty, struggling to attract top-flight doctors. That problem has been compounded of late, as shrinking reimbursements and soaring malpractice rates push some radiologists toward easier, and more lucrative, work. 
At the same time, the innate value of mammography screening itself has become the subject of a roiling scientific debate. 
The government and most experts have long argued that by catching breast cancer early, screening can save lives and help women avoid devastating radical surgery. But last year, two scientists in Denmark published a paper questioning the research behind that belief: clinical trials, involving expert mammogram readers, that said screening could reduce the breast-cancer death rate -- now 40,000 a year -- by as much as 30 percent. 
Subsequent analyses by government experts agreed that the clinical trials had flaws in their research methods. Yet they found that mammograms were still valuable in saving lives, though perhaps not by as much. 
Now many researchers are endorsing a more-limited benefit. But that narrow window, they say, means that mammography can save lives only if done well. In other words, a lot of the mammography being done in the United States may not be doing women much good at all. 
"In some settings, mammography is lousy," says Dr. Robert A. Smith, the head of screening at the American Cancer Society. "In others, it's extraordinarily good. There is no reason to do this without doing it as good as you possibly can." 
Yet from the first, the desire to improve mammography has been compromised by another imperative, the campaign to screen as many women as possible. Many experts and officials say that while they, too, have long worried about the disparities in doctor skill, they have remained silent, for fear of undermining the entire enterprise.
Too much negative information, they worried, would scare women away. Tougher rules might drive off clinics and radiologists, limiting access to the well-off or well-connected. That is why federal regulators did not simply sidestep the doctors; the rules for X-ray machines and images were conceived as minimum standards within reach of clinics everywhere. 
Even so, compliance is uneven and enforcement indulgent. A review of government documents shows that many of the nation's roughly 9,500 clinics repeatedly fail inspections with little fear of penalty. In fact, though the government sends scores of warnings each year to the most serious violators, only once has it levied a fine. 
The average patient, though, would be hard-pressed to ferret out the results of those inspections. To do so, she would have to file a Freedom of Information Act request and wait months for a response. 
The Food and Drug Administration, which oversees the federal program, argues that it has only limited authority to regulate the doctors. Even so, officials say that by improving the quality of breast X-rays, they have increased the accuracy of mammography over all. In enforcing the rules, they say, they strive to encourage the best possible work without jeopardizing access, especially in poor and rural areas. 
"I am confident enough in the progress made in assuring the performance of U.S. mammography centers that I would have no reservation whatsoever having my family use any certified facility," says Dr. David W. Feigal Jr., the agency's director for devices and radiological health. 
Meanwhile, a few states have taken it upon themselves to keep a closer eye on the doctors. That was the way California officials came upon Dr. Marvin E. Weiner, a radiologist whose case shows how frustrating those efforts have proven to be. 
Three years ago, the State of California concluded that Dr. Weiner had serious problems in reading mammograms. An instructor in a remedial program reported that he made mistake after mistake. According to confidential state documents, the instructor warned that Dr. Weiner could not even tell if an X-ray was too flawed to be read. 
Last year, after surviving a succession of failed inspections and accreditation reviews, the Los Angeles clinic where Dr. Weiner had screened more than 26,000 women finally shut down. Yet Dr. Weiner, who says he has been treated unfairly, continues to interpret breast X-rays for at least three other clinics. 
Government officials admit they are powerless to stop him.

First Steps Toward Regulation
Kathleen Kaufman says she saw it coming.
Ms. Kaufman runs the mammography-inspection program in Los Angeles, and in 1994, she joined an expert panel that helped write the federal rules. Ultimately, she felt, their labors came down to one issue: Were doctors finding cancers or missing them? 
Ms. Kaufman is a persistent woman, and she made the radiologists her cause. But when the F.D.A. began considering proposals to test radiologists and track their mistakes, she was drowned out by the doctors who dominated the panel. 
They did not dispute that their interpretive skill was a crucial variable in detecting breast cancer, or that, absent a system to track their mistakes, they had no sure way of judging their own work. 
Still, they argued, the data would be tricky to collect and interpret; more research was needed. The doctors worried that their performance scores would fall into the hands of plaintiff lawyers. They said doctors would flee mammography rather than tolerate such unprecedented federal intrusion. 
"I can predict that many physicians would happily not interpret mammography if they were forced to take such an exam, even if it was one that was determined to be fair and equitable," a panel member, Dr. Carl D'Orsi, wrote to the F.D.A.
By the hundreds, doctors swamped the agency with letters criticizing the entire program, which a California breast-cancer specialist named Denny S. Anspach described as "this egregious juggernaut of regulatory overload." 
The F.D.A. had its own fears of too much information. Women who found out that their doctors had scored poorly might avoid mammograms altogether or shun all but the best doctors. A short-lived effort in Michigan to rate clinics based on image quality was viewed as a case in point, with women taking the state's advice and gravitating toward the higher-rated centers. 
"Who wouldn't want to go to an 'A' facility, and who wouldn't want to avoid a 'C' facility?" declared Capt. John L. McCrohan, who now directs the food and drug agency's oversight program. 
At one point, the doctors on the panel suggested a compromise: the drug agency would encourage radiologists to scrutinize their own performance. To Ms. Kaufman, the idea suggested that the doctors, "the creme de la creme" among mammography experts, suffered from a certain lack of familiarity with the real world. 
"The good facilities don't need regulations at all. They're going to do their best job anyway," Ms. Kaufman said in the fall of 1996. "The regulations are written for the bad ones, and for those, you need to have it in law if you want to make them do it."
From the day the mammogram became an annual ritual for millions of women, it has been in trouble out in the real world. 
For many years, breast X-rays were largely used as a diagnostic tool to help identify possible tumors discovered in physical exams. Then in the early 1970's, the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York released the results of a groundbreaking clinical trial, concluding that screening women without any symptoms of cancer would cut the breast-cancer death rate by as much as 30 percent. 
An industry was born. Women clamored for the exam, and doctors urged them to take it. Oversight was left to the states. Physicians with no training in radiology set up clinics that combined excessive doses of radiation with ineptly shot X-rays and incompetent interpretation. 
Eventually, investigative journalists took aim at the "mammo mills," prompting Senate hearings in the fall of 1991. Among the women who testified was a Seattle medical-office assistant, Marie-Anne Domsalla. Three times doctors had pronounced her mammograms clean, Ms. Domsalla testified, and only by chance did she visit a doctor who found a full-blown tumor that should have been seen earlier. 
"What got to me, and it still does, was the mediocrity of the physicians," she said recently. 
"I am outraged at what happened to you," Senator Brock Adams, Democrat of Washington, told her at the hearing. "We have just got to stop this from happening."
The hearings came at a pivotal moment for gender politics. The Senate had been riven by the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Clarence Thomas. Women were threatening retribution at the polls against male lawmakers who "didn't get it." This climate galvanized the war on breast cancer, with its weapon the mammogram. 
The legislation to clean up mammography was called the Mammography Quality Standards Act, and it had little if any precedent in the history of medicine. Never before had the federal government claimed a role in the regulation of medical practice. 
But as so often happens, great ambitions collided with political realities. 
The first idea to fall was that of a nationwide system of federal inspections. In the final hours of the 1992 session, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, insisted that the states retain the job of visiting clinics. 
After the measure became law, the secretary of health and human services made another crucial decision, letting the food and drug agency draft the rules and oversee the patchwork of state programs. That agency was chosen instead of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, officials recalled, because it already inspected sun-tan parlors and other sites using radiation.
The drug agency, in turn, decided that the inspectors would monitor only the X-ray machines and basic paperwork: Was the delicate equipment properly set? Were patients being notified of their results? Reviewing the quality of mammogram images was left to a doctors trade group, the American College of Radiology. 
Drug agency officials acknowledge that the rules were meant as minimum standards. "We don't want to reduce the accessibility," said Dr. Ellen G. Mendelson, a member of the advisory panel. 
But the biggest fight came after the first batch of rules went into effect, when Ms. Kaufman said she hoped the government might get tough on the doctors. Today, she looks back on the outcome with regret. 
"I truly feel that we made great strides," she says of the entire federal program. "But one thing drove me crazy. I knew there were physicians out there who were a problem, and that these regulations were not going to address them." 
The final rules, which came out in 1997, made no provision for competency testing or tracking doctors' errors. Instead, they set standards for training, education and the minimum number of mammograms doctors should read annually. 
That same year, the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, released a study of the program so far. 
The study found that fewer clinics were violating federal rules or flunking image-quality tests. As for whether mammography itself was improving, the investigators could not say. The reason was that very few clinics were tracking how often their doctors missed cancer. 
"I'm surprised it didn't get more attention," the report's author, Sophia Ku, said. "Congress never asked us to go back and study that more."

Problems at the Clinics
In each of the last five years, more than 40 percent of the nation's mammography clinics have been cited for violating one or more federal rules. 
They have little to fear. 
The food and drug agency has taken on the personality of a parent who promises dire punishments, but never follows through. Last year, it sent 357 letters to clinics that had the most serious problems, including poor image quality, or repeatedly violated rules on training and other significant matters. But though the agency can levy fines of up to $10,000 a day, it has done so only once, five years ago. 
"We're looking at getting more aggressive with some of these facilities," says Dr. Charles Finder, an agency official. 
The actual inspection is done largely by the states, but their commitment appears to vary tremendously. Some, like California and Texas, are even using their own laws to levy fines and notify the patients of the most troubled clinics. 
Others seem to be struggling just to check up on their clinics.
In Oklahoma, a mere 7 percent of the clinics have been cited for violations, far below the national average. Asked why, Gary L. Ammon, the state's chief regulatory official for mammography, offered a simple explanation: "I'm the only inspector." Mr. Ammon just got a replacement for an assistant who trained for the $25,000-a-year job but quit to sell mobile phones. 
Murray L. Kurzman, a former F.D.A. regional inspection chief in New York, said the bulk of his work involved writing letters, trying to get problem clinics to comply. Clinic owners knew they could take advantage of the agency's reluctance to crack down, Mr. Kurzman explained, adding that often "it was like pulling teeth to get them to respond." 
Clinics generally get advance notice of state inspections, so they have a chance to calibrate the notoriously finicky machines; many hire outside specialists for this task. The inspectors then perform a "phantom-image test," in which a translucent cube is X-rayed to determine how many of its 16 blemishes are detected. 
An industry group set the passing score of 10 in the mid-1980's, reflecting the quality of machines at the time. Today's technology makes much higher scores routine, according to manufacturers and physicists who work with mammography equipment. 
"The bar should be raised," says Dr. Timothy D. Solberg, a physicist at U.C.L.A. "All the excellent facilities I deal with can easily attain a 12 or 13." 
Many clinics, though, barely reach the federal minimum. Records show that about a third of New York City's clinics score below 11. Nationally, clinics do somewhat better; still, about a third score below 12, according to data compiled by the food and drug agency at the request of The Times. 
The actual breast X-rays are even more loosely scrutinized. The American College of Radiology, which monitors the films, gives the clinics every opportunity to pass. Each clinic is told to pick out its two best sets of films and mail them in. There is no system for verifying that the clinics' own technologists shot the films themselves. 
Even so, federal records show that 30 percent of clinics fail on their first try; 10 percent of those fail the retest.
Many clinics have trouble passing an even easier test. The drug agency requires the College of Radiology to spot-check 3 percent of clinics each year for film quality. Because this test is unannounced, the group lowers its standards, reasoning that the films will not be a clinic's best. 
Previously undisclosed agency records show that one in four clinics failed the review in 2000, as did one in five the year before. After a second failure on the film-quality tests, clinics are ordered to stop doing mammograms until they can pass, the agency says. 
In New York, state health officials say the case of the Bronx radiologist underscores concerns about whether the College of Radiology, an industry trade group, is too accommodating of its own. State officials say that one factor in the 25 missed cancers was the clinic's film quality. It had been deteriorating for years, they say, yet the clinic had passed its accreditation review just days before the state forced it to close down. For his part, the doctor says he was not responsible for any missed cancers. 
The drug agency says it still believes that the College of Radiology is better equipped to review mammograms because it uses doctors to examine films. Officials for the trade group declined comment on the Bronx case. Over all, though, they say theirs is an educational organization whose mission is to encourage clinics to improve. 
To that end, they say, they do not make their records public, and alert the drug agency to problem clinics only when they fail two film reviews.
"This is peer-review information," says Pam Wilcox, who runs the group's accreditation program. "If you compromise the process, it can make people very skittish about doing it."

Doctors Falling Short
Industry experts and drug agency officials agree that even this modest regimen of oversight, together with better technology, has succeeded in improving the quality of mammogram films. By the mid-1990's, researchers were beginning to focus on what many saw as the crucial variable: the radiologists themselves.
Just as the drug agency was deciding against tests or performance scoring, Dr. Craig A. Beam, a researcher in Milwaukee, tried an experiment. He handed radiologists a stack of breast X-rays and asked them to spot the cancers. The results, published in 1996 by the Archives of Internal Medicine, were startling.
While some doctors caught every cancer, one in four missed more than a third. Or as Dr. Beam puts it, "Some guys just fell apart." 
The challenge starts with the X-ray itself, which some doctors compare to viewing the moon through a telescope. Every crater, ravine or dusty plain has to be examined for subtle distortions that indicate early signs of breast cancer. Even brain tumors are easier to spot, because the images are clearer, experts say. 
Mammogram readers are prey to a host of possible missteps. One is called "satisfaction of search," when attention is riveted to an obvious problem and a more-subtle spot is overlooked. Another tendency is simply to overlook certain areas, like the nipple or high up the chest. 
Above all, reading mammograms requires an intense yet relaxed concentration, a rare ability to stay sharp despite the mind-numbing boredom of reading hundreds of films before spotting a single tumor. 
"There are people who really shouldn't be reading mammograms," says Dr. Robert A. Schmidt, a mammography expert at the University of Chicago. 
Until recently, doctors could shrug off data like Dr. Beam's as not reflecting clinical realities. In the real world, a doctor will miss some cancers because the film is bad or the tumor is simply too hard to see. But two recent studies appear to confirm Dr. Beam's findings. 
The traditional wisdom of a 10 percent error rate was drawn from studies involving expert mammogram readers. But an analysis involving average doctors in New Hampshire found they were missing more than one in four cancers.
Then, last fall, researchers in North Carolina found that four of the state's six busiest clinics were missing about one in three cancers, compared with a 15 percent error rate at the state's best clinics.
Put another way, the better clinics found 347 cancers while missing 70; the worst found 178 and missed 94. 
Many experts say these results, based on the work of federally approved doctors, raise questions about the rules for training, both in medical school and on the job. 
The vast majority of doctors reading breast X-rays are general radiologists who at most took a medical school rotation in mammography. Before going to work, they must take a 60-hour class and read 240 practice films.
As with many medical procedures, volume is an important factor in sharpening skill. In several other countries, including Britain and Canada, doctors are required to read at least 2,500 mammograms a year. By contrast, the F.D.A. rule is 960 every two years, a standard set with access in mind, to keep even the small practitioner in business. 
That standard is so low that a doctor could expect to see only one or two cancers annually, and could go years before seeing some forms of breast cancer.
"It's obscene," says Dr. Michael N. Linver, an original member of the drug agency's advisory panel. "I read about 10,000 a year."
The importance of volume was underscored by a study published in March by the National Cancer Institute. Doctors who read more than 3,600 mammograms a year had an accuracy rate of 76 percent; those who read 1,200 or fewer averaged only 65 percent. In a separate study, Dr. Beam found that mammogram readers were averaging about 1,200. 
But raising the volume is only the first step, Dr. Beam says. Radiologists, he explains, must track their mistakes and learn from them, studying the shape and shading of tumors missed. Otherwise, they will simply repeat their errors, never knowing if they are performing well. 
Some doctors are quietly finding out. At a workshop last year in Santa Fe, N.M., 70 doctors from around the country were asked to read a stack of typical mammograms; one seasoned specialist missed two-thirds. Half of the doctors missed more than a quarter, the workshop's organizers say. 
Dr. Laszlo Tabar, a mammography expert from Sweden who offers a similar drill at seminars in the United States, says he does not confront those who do poorly. "You cannot push them against the wall and say 'you are dumb,' " Dr. Tabar says.
But at the end of every workshop, he says, he hopes that one in three doctors will stand up and say: " 'Thanks very much for opening my eyes. I'll never touch a mammogram again.' "

Doctors vs. the Regulators
Many doctors and experts acknowledge that government policy has encouraged a two-tier system of mammography in the United States. A small number of elite clinics are reaping the full benefit of screening. Most employ specialists whose volume is many times the federal minimum. Some double-read every X-ray. A few have begun to keep tabs on the performance of the radiologists, dismissing those whose batting averages fall below a high level.
Experts believe that the entire system can and should be forced to reach this level. But a look at the practice of one successful New York radiologist shows how that ambition is challenged by a variety of economic, political and bureaucratic pressures. 
Dr. Leena Doshi is an entrepreneur of the medical image, owner of nine radiology offices around the New York area. She considers herself a firm believer in the value of breast-cancer screening, and says she is committed to doing it well. She would also prefer not to do it at all. 
When Dr. Doshi started out nearly two decades ago, business was so good that her husband left dentistry to help out. Mammography was an integral part of her practice, and it paid off -- as much as $140 a patient. 
But steadily, that income began falling, as the federal government and then the managed-care companies reduced their reimbursements. Today, the government pays Dr. Doshi $82 (a recent increase from about $69) for a procedure that she says costs her $85; some managed-care contracts pay as little as $50. While she knows mammograms can attract new patients, she is much happier providing lucrative cutting-edge services like CAT scans.
Then there is malpractice insurance. Misread mammograms have become a leading cause of malpractice claims nationwide, sending insurance costs soaring. Dr. Doshi says premiums for her clinics have doubled primarily because of mammography. 
Finding good doctors is harder than ever. Virtually no new radiologists specialize in mammography, and even premier teaching hospitals say they cannot get all the people they need to do top-flight work. "There are a lot of doctors out there who are worn out, burned out, overstressed, and do not see any rewards in mammography," Dr. Smith of the American Cancer Society says. "Good people are leaving, and more and more of the people still reading mammograms are doing them in a half-hearted way." Many centers simply draft their newest employees, whether they are keen on mammography or not. 
Dr. Doshi makes do, though without what she calls "the upper hand" in hiring. She can no longer afford to have prospective employees test-read a pile of mammograms, she says, and even though she now pays doctors $300,000 a year, they get lured away. 
"It's a total nuisance," she says, explaining her disaffection with the whole enterprise of mammography. 
Dr. Doshi knows that some radiologists are fleeing mammography. But she feels trapped. The H.M.O.'s insist she keep doing mammograms. The government insists the H.M.O.'s screen all the women they can. 
None of this, Dr. Doshi insists, will keep her clinics from giving their mammography patients high-quality care. When she finds a mistake, she says, she alerts the doctor. Even so, like many radiologists, she regards the F.D.A. rules as an intrusive, and largely unnecessary, slap in the face. After all, she points out, doctors in other specialties make mistakes, too, yet do not have federal officials telling them how to do their jobs. 
"I am a doctor, and nobody knows how to control me," Dr. Doshi says. "You cannot control my thinking, or my interpretations or my own demands for quality."
Records show that several of her clinics have not demonstrated that they meet federal rules for doctors' training. She says it is simply a problem of record-keeping. 
Especially onerous, Dr. Doshi and many others say, is a new federal rule dealing with a problem that is actually the flip side of missing too many cancers: overdiagnosing possible cancer and subjecting too many women to unnecessary biopsies. 
Originally, this rule was part of the government's broader idea of testing and tracking doctors' competence. After that was abandoned, the American College of Radiology tried to create a private database of breast-cancer cases. But when it asked more than 9,000 clinics to send in data, no questions asked, only 28 did and the project was quietly dropped. 
Now, in the search for these "false positives," clinics are supposed to track all biopsy referrals. But many radiologists complain that they get lost in the statistics, special computer programs notwithstanding. Dr. Doshi says she cannot even get her own data; few doctors respond to her requests for biopsy results. 
"What physician will take time out, have a secretary gather the records, make copies and pay the postage?" she says.

A Radiology Case Study
In the summer of 1991, Trisha Edgerton needed a mammogram and found what she thought was an excellent clinic. Trained as a medical physicist, she even inspected its machines herself. She did not even think about the doctor. 
Eight months later, she says, other doctors found that he had missed an obvious one-inch tumor. It was an "across-the-room cancer," she says. "You know, the kind good doctors can see from across the room." 
So when the State of California asked her to run its mammography oversight program in 1996, she jumped at the chance to begin closing what she saw as the huge hole in the federal safety net. "I wanted to pursue these radiologists," she says. 
Among them was Dr. Weiner in Los Angeles. But if Mrs. Edgerton was taking California where no state had gone before, her pursuit of Dr. Weiner shows how circumscribed, and ultimately maddening, that journey has been. 
Lacking a mechanism to assess radiologists' skills, Mrs. Edgerton did something of an end run, focusing on doctors who repeatedly flunked the most basic test -- picking two sets of their best films for accreditation review. A doctor who had trouble telling a good image from a bad one, she figured, might have trouble finding cancer, too. 
In most other states, the American College of Radiology visits failing clinics to help them pass. In California, failing radiologists would now be told to undergo formal remedial training. 
It was not long before the state took notice of Dr. Weiner and his clinic, California Breast Care. Dr. Weiner seemed abundantly qualified. He graduated from Northwestern University Medical School in 1955, was board certified in radiology and had lots of experience. Since 1995, the government has paid him more than $1.2 million to read 26,000 mammograms of uninsured women, and he has likely read many more. 
The trouble began in 1997, when the X-ray machine in the clinic's mobile unit flunked its image-quality test, mustering only 7.5 of the required 10 points. Soon the clinic also began failing accreditation reviews: In early 1998, its "best" films were deemed underexposed and insufficiently sharp. 
These reviews are typically not made public. But records obtained under California's open-records law show that, when given a second chance, a clinic manager said she and Dr. Weiner were "working very hard" to produce acceptable images. Six months later, their new films failed as well. 
This triggered Mrs. Edgerton's remedial regimen, and Dr. Weiner balked, noting that he had already gone through the program. In 1996, state records show, he had submitted a film with a possible cancer (the X-rays are supposed to be free of abnormalities), and reviewed 50 practice mammograms with an instructor.
Now, at the state's insistence, he spent 16 hours going through 250 cases. Afterward, the instructor, Dr. Pamela Hilpert, took the highly unusual step of phoning Mrs. Edgerton's office. 
"I spoke to Dr. Hilpert," an assistant wrote in a memorandum to Mrs. Edgerton dated Feb. 22, 1999. "She feels that Dr. Weiner is unable to discern the difference between good and bad mammograms and is unwilling to provide good mammogram services. When I asked her what her recommendations are, she said Dr. Weiner should retire. When I asked her if she would recommend additional training, she said additional training would be ineffective." 
Dr. Weiner declined requests to be interviewed, but said of Dr. Hilpert in a brief telephone conversation: "I do not want to discuss that person, or think about that person. If those are her thoughts, let it be." 
He said the federal rules and the accreditation process were unfair. "It's not working. It's a total disaster. The standards they have set are impossible to achieve," he said. "We all want to do good quality mammography, but when the films are submitted to the two agencies that are handling this, the A.C.R. or the F.D.A., those who then review these films are totally wrong."
In March 1999, state officials wrote to California Breast Care, saying the clinic could have liabilities "if Dr. Weiner continues to interpret mammograms produced by your active machine." 
The clinic parried by switching to a new machine. But in July 2000, this new machine's films also flunked a spot check. Dr. Weiner refused more training, state officials say, and they eventually barred him from being the lead doctor at any clinic. He could no longer send films for review, but he could still read mammograms. 
He is no longer doing so at California Breast Care, which went out of business last year. Its former chief executive, Norman Gene Eason, did not respond to numerous requests for an explanation. 
But records obtained by The Times show that Dr. Weiner continued to read mammograms at two other clinics and began work at a third. One of them, A.N.T. Imaging Center in Van Nuys, was cited two years ago for the same image-quality problems as California Breast Care. The physician responsible for picking A.N.T.'s test films was Dr. Weiner. The owner, Nelli Mamikonyan, says she has corrected the problems and hired a new lead doctor, though Dr. Weiner still reads mammograms. 
When Trisha Edgerton thinks about Dr. Weiner, she regrets most what she could not do. "I would prohibit him from reading mammography, or having anything to do with a mammography operation," she says. She regrets the four or five other doctors in her program who were deemed incompetent but could not be stopped from reading mammograms. And she regrets the ones she never even knew about. Dispirited, she left for another state job just as she was trying to find a way to evaluate doctors' performance -- to finish what she started when she vowed to "pursue the radiologists." 
Her replacement, Claude Goode, says he is doing the best he can. "The federal rules don't allow us to deal with the medical aspect of mammography," he says, adding, "We are trying to work between the lines."
California officials have asked the state medical board to review Dr. Weiner's practice. But a spokeswoman for the board, Candis Cohen, said that while it could investigate individual patients' cases cited in a complaint, it was "not equipped" to evaluate a doctor's overall performance in fields like mammography, where extensive data would be needed to establish a pattern of incompetence. After all, even the best doctor will miss some cancers. 
It was only as California Breast Care was closing that the state ordered employees to notify some of Dr. Weiner's patients -- 7,000 over a two-year period -- that they might have received deficient care. 
Alice Pride, a retired seamstress, had arrived for an exam in the summer of 1998, six months after California Breast Care failed its first film review. Getting tested scared her, but breast cancer scared her even more. Her mother had died of it, and so had her grandmother. "She would run to get tested every year," says her sister-in-law, Beverly A. Daniels. 
It is not clear how Dr. Weiner performed in reading Mrs. Pride's X-rays. She sued him for malpractice when another doctor found a breast tumor the following year, and the case was settled out of court recently. 
But for Mrs. Pride, the experience shattered her faith in a test that the government said it had fixed. Her cancer spread, and she died last fall at age 67. 
Says her sister-in-law: "She believed in mammography."

Blurred Vision

TODAY: Cleaning up mammography: a promise unfulfilled.
TOMORROW: How one H.M.O. learned to learn from its mistakes.

A television segment based on this series will be broadcast on the program "Now With Bill Moyers" tomorrow night on PBS, at 9 p.m. on most stations (check local listings).

Articles in this series, related articles and an online discussion can be found at nytimes.com/health.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doctors in a training program often missed the sign of cancer (circled) on this mammogram. (pg. A1); SHATTERED FAITH -- Alice Pride, who died of breast cancer last fall, sued Dr. Marvin E. Weiner over a 1998 mammogram. (Courtesy of the Pride family); AT ODDS WITH OFFICIALS -- Dr. Marvin E. Weiner continued in mammography after officials found him prone to mistakes. (New York Times Television); FIXING LOOPHOLES -- Trisha Edgerton holding a mammogram from 1991, which showed a tumor that was missed by doctors. Eight months after the mammogram was misread, another set of doctors told her she had cancer. Mrs. Edgerton, a medical physicist, later joined a California effort to assess the skills of radiologists who read mammograms. (John Decker for The New York Times)(pg. A23) ChartThese are three of the most commonly missed cancers presented at a training workshop for mammogram doctors held annually in Santa Fe, N.M. Each row of images is a single patient. CANCER: It was missed by 85 percent of the doctors who took this drill. THE CANCER WAS HARD TO SEE BECAUSE: 1. It can't be seen on the other view of the breast.2. There is an easier-to-see cancer here that distracts the doctor.3. It lies in the axillary region of the breast, where radiologists tend to expect similar-looking but benign lymph nodes, and it's not very star-shaped, or "spiculated," which is a telltale sign of cancer. CANCER: It was missed by 70 percent of the doctors. HARD TO SEE BECAUSE: 1. The doctor gets distracted by multiple calcifications on both breasts and by scars from breast-reduction surgery.2. The cancer can't be seen on the other view of the same breast, and the cancer looks like normal tissue. CANCER: It was missed by 60 percent of the doctors. HARD TO SEE BECAUSE: It's a very small lesion that requires high attention from the doctor because surrounding dense tissue obscures it.(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (95%); BREAST CANCER (92%); CANCER (90%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (90%); RADIOLOGY (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); WOMEN (78%) CANCER; MAMMOGRAPHY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DOCTORS; BREAST 

PERSON: MOSS, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



604 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
PBS is expanding its brand from the television screen to the shopping mall.

BYLINE:  By Leslie Kaufman 

 BODY:
WHEN most moms and dads think of children's television on the Public Broadcasting System, comforting images of a prancing Purple Dinosaur or Ernie the Muppet singing "Rubber Ducky" come to mind. But when PBS considers its deeply popular lineup of educational programs, like "Sesame Street," "Barney and Friends," "Arthur" and "Clifford the Big Red Dog," it sees a brand destined to expand beyond the small screen. 
 This morning PBS plans to announce that it will team up with the Mills Corporation, a fast-growing shopping center developer, to bring PBS to the mall. PBS Kids, which aims make its debut at the Opry Mills Mall in Nashville as early as this fall, will feature all sorts of attractions for the sippy-cup-and-stroller set: reading nooks, television kiosks with PBS programming, as well as guest appearances from PBS stars like Arthur the Aardvark. It will also carry merchandise, like PBS-designed interactive games and, of course, PBS Kids T-shirts. 
 Judy L. Harris, who was hired a year ago to help PBS develop its brand, said the enterprise was "about reaching the viewers, about keeping us relevant and having more points of impact." Any money the company makes from sales or licensing fees, she said, "goes straight into more quality kids' programming."
Mills, not surprisingly, is not motivated by altruism alone. "It will have a financial benefit in the long term by enabling us to lease at the best economic terms to tenants who want to be near" mall attractions like this, said Mark Rivers, director of strategic development for Mills.
PBS is just the latest nonretailer to put its name above these new "branded destination sites." Earlier this month, Binney & Smith, the makers of Crayolas, opened Crayola Works, a hybrid store and creative arts studio. Last year, General Mills opened Cereal Town at the Mall of America in Minnesota, where children can see how their favorite breakfast is made or have their picture put on a Wheaties box. ESPN X Games opened its first mall-based skate park last year and is set to open three others by the end of 2002.
The concept is a twist on long-evolving efforts by media and product companies to reach consumers in nontraditional ways. More than a decade ago, Disney and Warner Brothers opened stores across the country filled with merchandise like Tweetie Bird underwear. And Nike Inc. built multistored showplaces in New York and Chicago that were as much about advertising as shopping. The 300,000-square-foot Bass Pro Shop Outdoor World, with a four-story waterfall, has long been a top tourist destination in Missouri. Sony has an entire mall in San Francisco.
There are also, of course, themed restaurants like the Hard Rock Cafe and ESPN EndZone, as well as amusements parks like Legoland in Southern California and Sesame Place in Pennsylvania. 
But today's new arrivals are intentionally much more "interactive" -- so much so that most prefer to be called destinations, not stores. PBS Kids, for example, will not be a store but a themed play area. There will be the requisite PBS Kids sweatshirts, but the network will get most revenue from licensing its name to Mills.
ESPN X Games skate parks run an average of 50,000 square feet. While a fair chunk of the space is devoted to selling sports gear and X Games branded apparel, at least half the park is taken up by facilities for the hip teenager -- in-line skating, skateboarding and stunt biking, all of which X Games televises.
"Skate parks are the ball fields of the 21st century," said Ron Semaio, vice president for programming at X Games. "This is grass-roots marketing that allows us to promote X Games telecasts in a casual environment. If we don't sell a single sweatshirt, but we convince the next generation of kids to watch the X Games, then we consider it a great success."
Companies that have traditionally not sold direct, like media conglomerates or manufacturers that sell wholesale, have a variety of incentives to move toward some type of retail presence. For one, it gives them an easy way to capitalize on the tens of millions of dollars they have invested in building name recognition. Equally important, it gives them a chance to interact with customers in a much more direct way and use that information for future marketing.
"Primarily we are alive through product," said Mark J. Schwab, president and chief executive of Binney & Smith, "but I thought it could be a richer and deeper experience." Working with Mills, Crayola built a store in Baltimore where customers can buy products like soccer ball decorating kits and then go to a nearby area with tables and chairs and complete the project.
"I see it as a learning lab," Mr. Schwab said of the stores. "We will try new products and different merchandising solutions and share everything we have learned with our customer." 
Malls like the concept because it gives them a chance to break away from the relentless parade of chains like Gap, Crate & Barrel and Victoria's Secret that seem to populate every upscale concourse. Mills, which runs 13 malls nationwide, is in a class by itself in identifying brands that could find homes in the mall and working with those companies to bring interactive destinations to their properties -- Crayola, skate parks and PBS Kids are all theirs.
"Retail has an awful lot of repetition," Mr. Rivers said. "Consumer brands that have legacy and loyalty give our offering urgency. It also allows us to target a demographic, like young mothers with strollers, and then go out and grab it."
Grabbing audiences the first time is easy. But branded retail is littered with the bodies of hot destination sites that soon lost favor with the public.
"I am not optimistic," said Therese Byrne, editor of Retail Maxim, an industry newsletter. "I know that there are a lot of these concepts that are like the next generation Discovery Zone out there, but after being in these markets from Las Vegas to Southern California, I can tell you that it is a very fickle market. Even good concepts can't figure out how to keep consumers coming back and back and back again."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column in Business Day on Thursday about the marketing of the PBS brand misstated the organization's full name. It is the Public Broadcasting Service, not System.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Binney & Smith's Crayola Works, a hybrid store and creative arts studio in Baltimore. The concept is a twist on long-evolving efforts by media and product companies to reach consumers in nontraditional ways. (Matt Houston) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (92%); RETAILERS (92%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); RESTAURANTS (87%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (76%); THEME RESTAURANTS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (67%); COMPUTER GAMES (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (59%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (59%); TOURISM (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (61%); OPRY MILLS (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (53%); CRAYOLA LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (92%) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE; MILLS CORP; OPRY MILLS MALL (NASHVILLE, TENN); BINNEY & SMITH; GENERAL MILLS INC; MALL OF AMERICA (BLOOMINGTON, MINN) 

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (61%); GIS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (61%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (61%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (61%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (61%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (53%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (53%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (53%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (53%); SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (53%) SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%); MISSOURI, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



605 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Defends Its Farm Subsidies Against Rising Foreign Criticism 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's top trade and agricultural officials tried today to quell the rising chorus of foreign criticism of new American farm subsidies, dismissing the complaints as unfounded or hypocritical attempts to maintain trade barriers.
 At a news conference, Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, chided Canada, Japan and European nations for placing their own high trade barriers on agricultural goods while "throwing stones" at American subsidies, which he said were within the limits set by the World Trade Organization. 
 "Europe spends three times the amount as the U.S. on subsidies," he said. 
Canada has promised to raise the issue of the new $180 billion American farm bill, signed into law by President Bush last month, during the Group of 8 summit talks now under way near Calgary, Alberta. Canadians and international economists say American subsidies have a particularly harmful effect on developing countries in Africa -- a centerpiece on the summit agenda.
Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada said last week that the biggest favor that rich countries could do for Africa would be to lower the subsidies, as well as import quotas and tariffs.
But Mr. Zoellick and Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman disputed the argument that subsidized American crops are producing a glut on grain and cotton markets, driving down prices and hurting farmers in poor countries.
"We're not violating international law, and we haven't changed market access into this country," Ms. Veneman said. "At least 91 percent of African produce comes into this country duty free."
Mr. Zoellick said the United States would be in a better negotiating position at world trade talks precisely because American farmers are receiving record amounts of subsidies without breaking limits imposed by the W.T.O.
"Are we going to use our limits? You bet we are, and if you want us to change, sit down at the table with us," Mr. Zoellick said. "We're going to negotiate in America's best interests."
This increasingly testy debate reflects the tension between American agriculture's growing dependence on trade and the administration's determination since Sept. 11 to deflect anti-American anger by helping developing countries. The administration has pledged to double its aid to developing nations, to $5 billion, but critics say the goals could be undermined if the agriculture of poorer nations were to be prevented from developing.
One out of three acres planted in the United States produces food or fiber destined for export. With American markets already saturated, Mr. Zoellick said, the United States had to aggressively pursue negotiations to open up more foreign markets.
In Congress, critics of the farm bill have said subsidies are widening the gap between rich and poor American farmers. Supporters argue that the bigger farmers deserve the bigger subsidies, even if that means 10 percent of American farmers receive most of the aid.
The administration argues that subsidies are a side issue and that the real problem is trade barriers. In talks in Geneva, the United States has offered to drop all American trade barriers if other countries follow suit. Poor countries argue that the two issues cannot be divided. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COTTON MARKETS (73%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (79%); JEAN CHRETIEN (56%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



606 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Declares a Winner in Disputed Election in Madagascar 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: ANTANANARIVO, Madagascar, June 26 

 BODY:
The United States endorsed Marc Ravalomanana today as ruler of the turbulent Indian Ocean island of Madagascar after a six-month struggle for power.
 The move could prove decisive in efforts to stem Madagascar's descent into chaos after months in which the outside world has recognized neither Mr. Ravalomanana nor his rival, the longtime ruler Didier Ratsiraka. 
 The United States ambassador, Wanda Nesbitt, said she gave Mr. Ravalomanana a letter from President Bush confirming that Washington saw him as president of the divided island of 16 million people. "I think other countries will take the same decision but I think it is a bit premature to say which countries will take which decisions," she told reporters.
Clutching Mr. Bush's letter, Mr. Ravalomanana said he welcomed the move, as well as a related decision by the United States to unblock Madagascan foreign assets frozen in the Federal Reserve as a precaution when the crisis erupted earlier this year. "This is very positive for me because now we can start to work again. We will attack the economic problems," Mr. Ravalomanana said at a reception after independence day celebrations.
In Washington, a State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said: "The bottom line is we've begun doing business with the government of President Ravalomanana. We accept his administration as the government of Madagascar.
"We believe that accepting Mr. Ravalomanana as president will now prevent additional violence, will speed an end to Madagascar's political crisis and help the government of Madagascar get back on its feet," he said. 
Most Madagascans see Mr. Ravalomanana as the rightful leader even though the international community had not recognized him and Mr. Ratsiraka has refused to step down.
In May, a court declared Mr. Ravalomanana, a millionaire, the winner of disputed December elections on the troubled island, ousting the longtime president Mr. Ratsiraka.
Mr. Ratsiraka, an old-style African ruler who has led Madagascar for 23 years, contests the ruling and claims his right to power. At least 70 people have died in clashes between the two sides.
Diplomats from the United States, Britain, Japan, Germany, Switzerland, the European Union mission and Indonesia attended independence day celebrations. While diplomats from France, Madagascar's former colonial ruler, did not attend the event, Mr. Ravalomanana said he hoped France would follow the United States and endorse him.
Political analysts said the variety of foreign officials present at the festivities pointed to increasingly open support for Mr. Ravalomanana in the international community. 
The Organization of African Unity, backed by France, is pushing for a new round of elections to defuse the crisis, but the organization's views carry little weight on an island that does not consider itself African.
Mr. Ratsiraka has moved from the capital to his coastal hometown of Toamasina, where he has great support. His militias put up roadblocks and blew up bridges on roads leading to Antananarivo. Most of the roadblocks have now been dismantled by Mr. Ravalomanana.
Mr. Boucher said Secretary of State Colin L. Powell signed the paperwork for the release of Madagascar's money on Tuesday. It was frozen in the Federal Reserve Bank in New York after the disputed elections in December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%) RAVALOMANANA, MARC; RATSIRAKA, DIDIER (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) MADAGASCAR (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%) MADAGASCAR

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



607 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Cantor Sues Rival Firm In London 

BYLINE:  By SARAH LYALL 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 26 

 BODY:
Not long after Sept. 11, Michael Spencer, chief executive of the brokerage firm Icap, paid a sympathy visit to Lee Amaitis, chief executive of Cantor Fitzgerald's London operations.
 He offered three things: His condolences for the devastation Cantor suffered in the attack on the World Trade Center; a $500,000 gift to the fund for Cantor families; and a promise not to poach members of Cantor's staff, provided Cantor made the same promise in return. Cantor declined the deal. 
 What happened next, the details of which were reported Wednesday in The New York Post, is the subject of a lawsuit here and an extraordinary war of words between Cantor and Icap, bitter competitors in the cutthroat brokerage world. 
According to papers filed in the case, Mr. Spencer sent an e-mail message to a colleague on Oct. 11, outlining his intention to "plan a heist" by wooing away brokers from Cantor's interest-rate swaps desk. 
By the spring, Icap had hired away three of Cantor's top London-based swaps traders -- Edward Bird, Luigi Boucher and Spencer Gill. In its suit, Cantor is charging that Icap persuaded the three to breach their contracts as part of a deliberate effort to damage the firm in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, in which 658 Cantor employees were killed and the company's New York offices, on floors 101 through 105 of the World Trade Center's north tower, were obliterated.
"Following that attack, Icap embarked on a systematic and carefully planned attempt to poach leading brokers from Cantor's interest rates division," Andrew Hillier, a lawyer for Cantor, said in his opening statement in High Court in London on Monday. The purpose of the campaign, he added, was "to cause maximum damage to Cantor, not only as a result of the loss of those brokers themselves, but because of the likely consequence that client banks, and also other broking staff, would in turn leave Cantor."
Icap is arguing that the three brokers left Cantor because they were unhappy with the company's offer of new contracts that would have linked their annual compensation more directly to performance.
When they refused to sign the new contracts, Icap said in a statement, the three were subject to undue pressure, harsh words and "inappropriate behavior at the hands of Cantor's management," and were all but forced out.
"Cantor's is a highly speculative claim which we strenuously oppose," Mr. Spencer said in a statement. "We will defend our position robustly in court and anticipate a positive outcome."
The two firms have a history of rivalry. In 1999, Cantor was found guilty of unlawfully inducing about 20 employees of Intercapital Debt Trading -- now part of Icap -- to breach their contracts and join Cantor, and was ordered by a London court to pay damages of $:1.1 million, then worth $1.74 million.
But Sept. 11 made everything different, Mr. Amaitis said in an interview. Describing Mr. Spencer as "a guy who'd been bumping chests with me for seven years," he added:
"How would you feel if on Sept. 11 you lost 658 of your colleagues, your best friends, people you worked with for years on years -- you knew a lot of their families, a lot of their children -- and within a couple of weeks a gentleman comes in and offers his sympathy, and at the same time conspires to steal your employees with the intent to expressly damage and hurt the firm?"
It was the e-mail messages from Mr. Spencer and others -- unearthed in the pretrial discovery process -- that hurt the most, Mr. Amaitis said.
"I was appalled -- I cried," he said. "Wall Street is a very tough and competitive business. But these guys were laughing. They were gleefully talking about the fact that they were going to hurt us and damage us."
Although Cantor Fitzgerald was not a well-liked firm before Sept. 11, it was the beneficiary of a huge outpouring of good will after the terrorist attacks, said Alan Johnson, the managing director of Johnson Associates, a compensation consultancy firm in New York.
"Wall Street operates on a peculiar code, which is that when someone has had something horrific happen to them, whether it's health or some other kind of cataclysm, it is just not considered appropriate to kick them when they're down," Mr. Johnson said.
Speaking of what Cantor claims happened, he added: "You just don't take advantage of that kind of situation. If this is true, most people on Wall Street would consider this very bad form." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TERRORISM (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); LITIGATION (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BONDS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); PUBLIC DEBT (61%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: ICAP PLC (92%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP; ICAP (CO) 

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL SPENCER (91%) LYALL, SARAH; SPENCER, MICHAEL; AMAITIS, LEE; BIRD, EDWARD; BOUCHER, LUIGI; GILL, SPENCER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); LONDON (ENG)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



608 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Banff Memo; 
In Canada, World's Most Exclusive Summer Camp

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: BANFF, Alberta, June 26 

 BODY:
The jagged peaks of this famed resort in the Canadian Rockies are the closest you can get to the lodge where President Bush and leaders from Europe, Japan and Russia are meeting for their annual summit conference -- at least 30 miles, and five ice-covered mountains, away.
 This distance is exactly what the Canadian prime minister, Jean Chretien, wanted. After the debacle of last year's summit meeting in Genoa, Italy, where violent protesters battled the police (who shot one of them to death) and tried to surge past a chain-link fence surrounding the central city, Mr. Chretien promised that when he was the host, no anti-capitalist slogans would sully the air, no gasoline bombs would be hurled at the police. 
 The meeting, he said, would go back to the kind of intimate affair it had been at the beginning, more than a quarter-century ago. Each leader would have to scrape by with a mere 25 bag-carriers and note-takers, and all annoyances would be kept at bay, starting with the hundreds of reporters who come to sniff out controversy beneath the sea of we-all-agreed communiques.
At the end of the first day, one thing was clear: Mr. Chretien had succeeded beyond his wildest dreams.
The protesters who have become a staple of every meeting of world leaders since the Seattle trade conference in 1999 turn out to be crummy at scaling 8,000-foot peaks. One intrepid group traveling by bus made it within six miles or so of Kananaskis Village, where the meeting is being held. But only the local bears -- and a few Canadian Mounties -- would have heard their rage.
The only reporters who get inside the Delta Lodge are escorted from Calgary, 60 miles away, after being rousted from their beds at 4 in the morning to begin the trek. By e-mail, one of that frustrated crew, Bob Deans of Cox Newspapers, reported that he saw an anti-aircraft battery, armored personnel carriers, a beaver pond -- and a jack rabbit. But he never caught sight of the president of the United States. Mr. Bush and the other leaders were shown by video chatting around a circular table.
From the video, it certainly seemed informal -- so informal that Mr. Bush's first encounter with Tony Blair, Britain's prime minister, came when the two men ran into each other at the gym at 6:30 a.m. "I went down for a run and there was the prime minister working out," Mr. Bush said later, according to a White House transcript. "An impressive regime, I might add."
The few insiders who have ventured out of the resort to brief reporters likened the atmosphere to summer camp, if you can imagine Mr. Bush, President Jacques Chirac of France, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan and their friends as tentmates.
"This is a very different summit," Ari Fleischer, who is bunking at the lodge, reported today after making the two-hour drive to Calgary. "The leaders are all under one roof, it's a little Switzerland, you hear different languages as you walk down the hall. For the first time, because of this informal atmosphere, you can walk down the hallway from the American sector to the British sector to the French sector. There are no motorcades. You have the leaders bumping into each other, really mixing it up and talking."
He offered perfunctory apologies to the reporters that they couldn't "see the texture yourselves," and then re-ascended to the summit.
But more disappointed than the journalists, who are accustomed to fine dining with presidential aides during these summit meetings, are the demonstrators. A protest on Tuesday outside the Gap clothing outlet here attracted only about 200 participants, a few of whom got more media attention in the Canadian press for disrobing ("We'd rather wear nothing than wear Gap!" they chanted) than for their critique of how rich nations deal with poverty.
The police had expected violent demonstrations in Ottawa, hundreds of miles away, but they never materialized, perhaps because the capital endured driving rains for much of the day. At least two people were arrested in sporadic protests there.
About 500 demonstrators gathered in front of the Canadian Parliament and left some political graffiti behind calling for "Eternal Struggle." The crowd, mostly students, some wearing bandanas over their faces and carrying Palestinian flags, chanted "G-8, Shut it down."
"I'm opposed to the African development program, which is only for the economic benefit of the United States, the I.M.F. and the World Bank," said Graham Hnatiw, a 19-year-old McGill University student, referring to a plan to increase aid for Africa that is set for discussion Thursday. "The I.M.F. and the World Bank have to be abolished."
Maybe so, but his call was lost in the vast space between the capital's streets and the jack rabbits of Kananaskis.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leaders at the G-8 meeting near Banff, Alberta, yesterday: from left, Silvio Berlusconi, Italy; Gerhard Schroder, Germany; President Bush; Jacques Chirac, France; Jean Chretien, Canada; Vladimir V. Putin, Russia; Tony Blair, Britain; Junichiro Koizumi, Japan; Jose Maria Aznar, Spain, who is head of the rotating European Union presidency; and the president of the European Commission, Romano Prodi. (Associated Press); The Grim Reaper and other protesters at a Calgary "die-in." (Reuters) Map of Canada highlighting Banff: Banff is about as close as reporters can get to the leaders' lodge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); RIOTS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JEAN CHRETIEN (89%); GERHARD SCHRODER (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ROMANO PRODI (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); TONY BLAIR (56%) ;SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (92%) CANADA (98%); ITALY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) KANANASKIS VILLAGE (ALBERTA); CANADA; RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; ITALY; GERMANY; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



609 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Bush Links Palestinian Aid To Departure of Arafat
President Bush told allies at the Group of 8 meeting in Canada that the United States would cut off aid to the Palestinians if they did not embrace the changes he demanded on Monday. But officials of several nations warned that the threats could backfire and result in a resounding electoral mandate for Yasir Arafat, who Mr. Bush wants out of power. A15

The Palestinian Authority, which is led by Mr. Arafat, said it would hold elections for president and legislative offices in January. A14

Saudi Arabia expressed qualified support for the American initiative on the Mideast, but noted that it left many crucial questions hanging. A14

Israeli soldiers fired thousands of rounds into an old British police station in Hebron in a standoff with suspected Palestinian militants. A14

Pakistanis Clash With Gunmen
Officials said 10 Pakistani soldiers hunting members of Al Qaeda were killed in a fight that also left two suspects dead, one captured and others fleeing, perhaps into Afghanistan. A10

K.G.B. Ex-Officer Convicted
Oleg D. Kalugin, a retired K.G.B. general who became a critic of the post-Soviet Russian government, was convicted of treason in absentia and sentenced to 15 years in prison for disclosing state secrets to the United States. Mr. Kalugin, now a permanent resident of the United States, vowed never to return to Russia. A6

Acquittals in Moscow Killing
A military court in Moscow acquitted six men, five of them army officers, who were charged in the murder of Dmitry Kholodov, a journalist investigating corruption in the Russian military in the early 1990's. A7

Deadly Argentina Riot
At least two people were killed in Buenos Aires when protesters demanding jobs and food clashed with the police in the worst riots since political turmoil late last year helped topple the government. A12

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A16-26

U.S. Court Holds Pledge To Be Unconstitutional
A federal appeals court in California declared the Pledge of Allegiance unconstitutional because the phrase "one nation under God" violates the separation of church and state. The ruling, if it stands, will ban the pledge in schools in the nine Western states under the court's jurisdiction and may have implications in how "God" is invoked in public, from courtrooms to currency. The Senate quickly passed a measure condemning the ruling. A1

Progress on Amtrak Finances
Amtrak and the Bush administration reached a tentative deal that would provide enough cash to keep the railroad operating through October. A18

Reversal on Snowmobiles
The Bush administration has decided that rather than ban snowmobiles in Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks, which was endorsed by environmentalists, park workers and some lawmakers, it will instead impose new restrictions on them. A18

Democrat Assails Bush Plan
The Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, Patrick Leahy, accused the Bush administration of trying to put the proposed new homeland security department "above the law" by exempting it from some rules. A26

Flames Spread in Arizona
The Arizona wildfire known as the Rodeo-Chediski fire was enlarging on several fronts, and firefighters near Show Low seemed resigned to a long battle against the flames. A24

Suit Over Veil in Photograph
A Muslim woman in Florida has sued the state over its revoking of her driving privileges because she refused to remove her veil for a driver's license photograph. A court hearing is scheduled for today. A16

EDUCATION

Religious Schools and Race
A Harvard study that analyzed federal data concluded that private religious schools, particularly Catholic ones, were more racially segregated than public schools, though it did not appear to be intentional. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Albany Diocese Paid Victim Nearly $1 Million for Abuse
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Albany paid a confidential settlement of $997,500 in 1997 to a man who said he was sexually abused by a priest for six years, starting at age 12. The bishop said that all told there had been 11 settlements, mostly in the $50,000 to $150,000 range, for a total of $2.3 million, all paid by insurance. B1

A visiting priest from Kenya pleaded not guilty in Brooklyn to sexually abusing a 12-year-old boy. B3

Pataki's Quiet Agenda
Legislators and lobbyists said Governor Pataki quietly put the brakes on several popular measures this legislative session, including a minimum wage increase and a ban on smoking in restaurants. B1

3 Inspectors Charged Before
Three of the 19 present and former plumbing inspectors charged with extorting payoffs from contractors were indicted and cleared of similar charges nearly a decade ago. B1

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES A27

SPORTS D1-8

Knicks Trade Camby to Denver
Marcus Camby, Mark Jackson and a No. 7 draft pick go to the Nuggets for Antonio McDyess and a No. 25 pick. D1

The Mighty Fall at Wimbledon
Pete Sampras, Andre Agassi and Marat Safin were all ousted in upsets in the second round. D1

Germany to Face Brazil
Brazil beat Turkey, 1-0, to advance to the World Cup final on Sunday. D2

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

U.S. Takes WorldCom to Court
The S.E.C. accused WorldCom of fraud, and President Bush vowed to "hold people accountable" for the bookkeeping scandal at the nation's second-largest long-distance provider, a major carrier of Internet traffic. A1

The stock market plunged but recovered by the end of trading. C1

Accounting scandals are causing foreign investors to pull money out of American companies, leading people around the world to question the American economic model and undermining the dollar's strength. A1

Fed Holds Rates Steady
The Federal Reserve acknowledged that the economy's rebound appeared to have lost some momentum. C9

New Charges for Tyco Ex-Chief
L. Dennis Kozlowski was indicted on two charges of tampering with evidence in the case that accuses him of evading more than $1 million of sales taxes on six paintings he bought. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Rescuing campaign reform; "one nation under God"; the governor's turn; peacekeeping held hostage.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (83%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ARMIES (76%); MILITARY COURTS (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (74%); COUPS (74%); MURDER (73%); RIOTS (73%); TREASON (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SENTENCING (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); AL-QAEDA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); JURISDICTION (64%); LEGISLATION (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); RELIGION (60%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%); CHURCH & STATE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CANADA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



610 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: LEGISLATION; 
Latest Scandal Lifts Prospects for Measures to Tighten Up Audit Industry

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
The WorldCom accounting scandal has improved the prospects for legislation to tighten auditing standards and reduce conflicts of interest in the accounting industry, members of Congress said today.
 In fact, it has helped the prospects of some measures that had appeared dead just last month. 
 Democrats moved immediately today to capitalize on the scandal, pushing their version of accounting-reform legislation and accusing Republicans of favoring only weak remedies for corporate abuses. Opponents of the most far-reaching proposals, meanwhile, are continuing to look for ways to water them down or stall the legislative process, hoping that support for such measures will fade. 
In Canada, President Bush interrupted an appearance at an economic conference to make his strongest remarks to date about problems in the accounting business, declaring that "there is some concern about the validity of the balance sheet of corporate America, and I can understand why."
In comments that may suggest how troubling the Bush administration views the potential political fallout from the corporate financial scandals that continue to rock the stock market, Mr. Bush added that he was "deeply concerned about some of the accounting practices that take place in America."
This morning, the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, said he would bring up for a vote on the Senate floor in the next two weeks a proposal that would create an independent regulatory board to discipline corrupt accountants, prohibit investment banks from punishing honest research analysts and force auditors to limit the lucrative consulting business they perform for their publicly traded clients.
The issue probably will not be forced until the fall, however, when the tougher Senate proposal will have to be reconciled with a much different measure backed by House Republicans.
"It's time to move, to make sure that we have a system that will actually provide fairness and the kind of ethics that I think people expect out of business," said Mr. Daschle, a South Dakota Democrat. He predicted that the Democratic-backed measure would get 80 votes in the Senate.
Mr. Daschle also assailed Harvey L. Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who last week proposed a new accounting regulatory board that some accounting experts characterized as weaker than the Senate proposal.
"He is not doing the job, in my opinion," Mr. Daschle said.
Just six weeks ago, the Senate measure looked as if it might die in committee, and some lawmakers who support the legislation predicted it would take another major accounting scandal for the bill to make it out of the Senate. But today, Mr. Daschle said the full Senate would probably vote within two weeks, after Congress returns from the July 4 recess. 
The WorldCom scandal "increases the chances more than marginally" for accounting reform, said Senator Jon S. Corzine, a New Jersey Democrat and former co-chief executive of Goldman Sachs.
But the real test remains what will happen after the Senate, as the proposal will go to a House-Senate conference committee where it must be meshed with a far different proposal sponsored by Representative Michael Oxley, an Ohio Republican and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.
Without question, Congress will now produce an accounting bill by fall for Mr. Bush's signature, said Representative Richard H. Baker, a Louisiana Republican and chairman of the House capital markets subcommittee.
"For any member who had any reservation about the necessity to act, the demise of another major corporation in such an unfortunate way puts an exclamation mark on the necessity of Congress to act in the near term," Mr. Baker said. But he said that many Republicans strongly favored an approach different from the Senate's that would delegate more power to the S.E.C. to "define regulatory goals rather than put them in statute."
Mr. Baker also defended Mr. Pitt, who also came under criticism today at a Senate hearing from lawmakers including John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, who said there was a regulatory "void" at the S.E.C.
Mr. Pitt's performance has been "exceptional," Mr. Baker said, adding that the S.E.C. has been working carefully to ensure that regulators do not "accidentally punch another hole" into a struggling ship.
Representative Billy Tauzin, a Louisiana Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, also said today that he was close to introducing a bill to improve standards through the Financial Accounting Standards Board. He said that while the Oxley bill was a good first step, his bill was also needed, and he predicted it would win bipartisan support.
The White House communications director, Dan Bartlett, said tonight that the administration still had serious concerns about the Senate bill and continued to support the measure passed by the House in April. In particular, he said, the White House had "concerns about the broad authority and overlapping authority with the S.E.C." that would be created by the new accounting regulatory board under the Senate bill. He said, however, that the White House would continue to work with the Senate "to reach agreement on some of the issues that will allow us to support the legislation."
Opponents of that Senate bill, including lobbyists from the accounting and financial services industries, have been meeting to work out ways to kill it in conference committee or slow its progress. 
In a statement tonight, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, the senior Republican on the banking committee, said that the WorldCom scandal "in no way changes my opinion about the undesirability of having Congress set accounting standards or write into law a one-size-fits-all mandate."
But Gary Gensler, a former top Treasury official who has been advising the sponsor of the Senate bill, Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland and banking committee chairman, predicted the measure "will now fly through the Senate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (94%); SCANDALS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); AUDITS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ETHICS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); CORRUPTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%) COMPANY REPORTS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RESEARCH; CONSULTANTS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) WORLDCOM INC; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JON CORZINE (57%) OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); PITT, HARVEY L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



611 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: THE OVERVIEW; 
WORLDCOM FACING CHARGES OF FRAUD; INQUIRIES EXPAND

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission filed fraud charges against WorldCom yesterday and President Bush vowed to "hold people accountable" for the bookkeeping scandal at the company, the nation's second-largest long-distance provider and a major carrier of Internet traffic.
 As the stock market shuddered yesterday in response to Tuesday night's disclosure that WorldCom had falsely reported profits for the last five quarters, the Nasdaq exchange suspended trading of shares in WorldCom and the tracking stock of its MCI unit. And as the value of WorldCom's corporate bonds plummeted, it became clear that the debt-ridden company would now face tougher negotiations with its bank lenders, making a bankruptcy filing more likely. 
 Meanwhile, the Justice Department and a House committee opened investigations of the company's accounting methods, and the S.E.C. said it would expand its own investigation, which it began in March.
As the company's work force braced for a wave of pink slips -- WorldCom plans to cut 17,000 of its 85,000 employees beginning tomorrow -- some consumer and corporate customers of WorldCom's MCI long-distance unit were already looking for alternative carriers. 
Few telecommunications companies looked like havens yesterday, though, as WorldCom's bad news helped batter stocks of other carriers in this country and overseas, companies that have already been struggling to emerge from the communications industry's long recession.
"The industry is reeling from this black mark," Jose Collazo, chief executive of Infonet, a WorldCom competitor, said in an interview.
It was as if months of accounting scandals, which have already engulfed Enron, Global Crossing and Adelphia Communications, among others, as well as the auditing firm Arthur Andersen, had finally hit critical mass with the disclosure late Tuesday that WorldCom had masked losses by overstating its financial results by $3.8 billion -- one of the largest cases of false corporate bookkeeping yet. 
President Bush, speaking yesterday on the opening day of an eight-nation economic meeting in Kananaskis, Alberta, called the WorldCom revelation "outrageous" and vowed, "We will fully investigate and hold people accountable for misleading not only shareholders but employees as well."
In an apparent show of the administration's resolve, a few hours later the chairman of the S.E.C., Harvey L. Pitt, told reporters in Manhattan that the commission had taken the unusual step of filing civil fraud charges against WorldCom. He said part of the aim was to prevent the destruction of documents by WorldCom while the S.E.C. continued its investigation.
In its court filing, the S.E.C. said WorldCom violated antifraud and reporting provisions of federal securities laws by creating an accounting scheme intended to manipulate earnings to meet Wall Street's expectations and to support the company's stock price. Under this scheme, the S.E.C. said, WorldCom improperly booked so-called line costs, or the fees WorldCom paid to other communications companies to use their networks, as capital investments, which had the effect of masking losses.
The accounting strategy, which the S.E.C. said was put in place in early 2001 as the slowing economy resulted in a decline in WorldCom's profits, may have been blessed by executives other than Scott D. Sullivan, the chief financial officer who was fired this week, and David Myers, the controller, who resigned, according to the commission's complaint. 
"In a scheme directed and approved by its senior management, WorldCom disguised its true operating performance by using undisclosed and improper accounting that materially overstated its income," the S.E.C. said in its complaint. 
It remains to be seen whether the Justice Department will investigate WorldCom with the same intensity it has shown in its investigation of Enron, for which it set up a special task force. Bryan Sierra, a spokesman for the Justice Department, declined to comment yesterday, but people close to the company said that a Justice inquiry was under way. 
The House Energy and Commerce Committee, meanwhile, which has looked into business practices at Enron, Global Crossing and ImClone, will now turn its attention to WorldCom, according to its chairman, Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana.
"This was not a simple bookkeeping mistake," Mr. Tauzin said in a statement released yesterday. "Clearly, it was an orchestrated effort to mislead investors and regulators, and I am determined to get to the bottom of it."
John W. Sidgmore, WorldCom's chief executive, who disclosed the WorldCom bookkeeping problem on Tuesday night and announced that Mr. Sullivan had been fired, was not available for comment yesterday. Instead, he put a statement on the company's Web site, saying in part, "This has been a very tough week for WorldCom, there's no doubt about it." 
Mr. Sidgmore spent much of the day yesterday in discussions with WorldCom's large customers and some of its employees, but it could not be determined whether he had held further talks with the company's bankers, with whom he had met in New York on Tuesday.
WorldCom's future hinges on negotiating additional loans with its banks, led by Bank of America and including J. P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup. The company had been planning to tap a multibillion-dollar credit line this week. But now that does not seem feasible, because the accounting disclosures indicate that the company was in violation of its financing terms throughout 2001 and the beginning of this year.
Without additional loans, analysts said, WorldCom has about $2.5 billion of available cash, which the company would probably consume within three months. 
"We believe WorldCom's lead banks may refuse to honor additional requests to draw down credit lines and that negotiations over new, securitized credit lines are likely to falter," said Dan Reingold, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "This, of course, means bankruptcy is now a distinct and near-term possibility." 
Mr. Sidgmore took over as chief executive in late April after WorldCom's longtime leader, Bernard J. Ebbers, resigned following the company's disclosure that Mr. Ebbers owed WorldCom more than $366 million for loans and loan guarantees the company had granted him. In the wake of the new disclosures, Mr. Sidgmore is now faced with the task of drastically scaling back WorldCom's work force and its expectations.
He is making his base in Washington, the city where MCI had its headquarters before being acquired by WorldCom in 1998, as he maintains distance from WorldCom's official headquarters in Clinton, Miss.
The first of the 17,000 job cuts are scheduled to begin tomorrow at several locations around the world. In addition to Clinton and Washington, WorldCom's large offices in the United States are in Dallas; Ashburn, Va.; Tulsa, Okla.; and Alpharetta, Ga. The dismissals are expected to be distributed fairly evenly among work categories and geographic locations. 
WorldCom's disclosure of its accounting problem weighed on the entire telecommunications industry yesterday. Although trading in the company's shares was officially suspended by Nasdaq, in off-exchange electronic trading on Instinet and elsewhere, the stock fell to as low as 9 cents, down from 83 cents at Tuesday's close. The North American Telecom Index, which includes WorldCom and other large service providers, fell more than 10 percent yesterday. 
Shares in Qwest Communications, another large company whose accounting practices are under investigation by the S.E.C., plunged $2.40, to $1.79. Companies that sell equipment to WorldCom and its competitors also fell, with the shares of Lucent Technologies down 39 cents, to close at $1.58, and Nortel Networks down 14 cents, closing at $1.47. 
Even shares in WorldCom competitors like AT&T and Sprint, which stand to gain from customer defections, fell yesterday. AT&T's stock reached a 10-year low, falling 33 cents, to end the day at $9.62. 
"I am deeply concerned by the WorldCom developments, and the impact it could have on consumers and other providers in the industry," Michael K. Powell, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said in a statement yesterday. "We are closely monitoring the situation and are doing everything possible to ensure and protect both the stability of the telecommunications network and the quality of service to consumers."
Mr. Powell said he would travel to New York tomorrow to meet with telephone industry officials, analysts and debt-rating agencies to discuss the crisis in the telecommunications industry. 
Several consumer groups called yesterday for greater regulation of the industry, fearful that a bankruptcy filing by WorldCom would limit the competitive choices that have steadily lowered the cost of long distance in recent years.
The Telecommunications Research and Action Center, a nonprofit group in Washington, asked the F.C.C. to reinstate full regulatory oversight of the long-distance industry to assure that consumers did not end up paying more for WorldCom's accounting scandal. Another group, Consumers Union, urged Congress to approve a corporate-accounting reform bill sponsored by Senator Paul Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee.
Whatever regulatory remedies may be applied, analysts said, the telecommunications industry is likely to be left reeling, as WorldCom's collapse works its way through a system that has already had $2 trillion of shareholder value in its member companies erased in the last two years.
Scott Cleland, chief executive of the Precursor Group, a consulting firm based in Washington, warned, "Investors are in denial, just like they were with WorldCom, on how much worse it can get."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana. (Agence France-Presse); At a 1997 news conference, from left, John W. Sidgmore, who is now WorldCom's chief executive; Bernard Ebbers, its former chief executive; and Scott D. Sullivan, its former chief financial officer, who has been fired. (Barbara Alper)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); ETHICS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (73%); AUDITS (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (57%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); TIME WARNER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) WORLDCOM INC; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MCI COMMUNICATIONS INC 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); TWX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) SULLIVAN, SCOTT D; MYERS, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



612 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve Votes To Hold Rates Steady
Faced with corporate scandals, skittish financial markets and an economic recovery that has little traction so far, the Federal Reserve has decided to hold interest rates steady, saying it was not yet clear how soon the outlook would improve.
 As it has all year, the Fed said it expected the economy to pick up, and it hinted again that it planned to raise rates eventually. But it acknowledged that the rebound appears to have lost some momentum. Page C11. 

Cantor Sues Rival Over Brokers
In a lawsuit, the investment firm Cantor Fitzgerald has accused a rival firm in London, Icap, of persuading employees to breach employment contracts as part of an effort to damage the firm in the aftermath of Sept. 11. C11.

OPEC Leaves Oil Output Unchanged
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will leave crude oil production levels unchanged, despite an expected increase in demand that could send prices higher. OPEC, at its meeting in Vienna, seemed willing to push prices as high as possible without provoking a global recession. C11.

Martha Stewart Shares Hit a Low
Shares of Martha Stewart's company plunged more than 20 percent, closing at $10.40. A witness has questioned Ms. Stewart's account of her sale of 4,000 shares of ImClone as a federal investigation intensifies. C2.

Scrutiny Vowed for Farmer Mac
Prominent members of Congress, including at least one longtime ally, have promised to increase the scrutiny of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. C11.

Microsoft Alters Passport Software
Microsoft has agreed to make changes in a children's version of its Passport authorization software after an advertising industry watchdog group challenged the service over parental control and privacy issues. C10.

Deal Offers Amtrak a Reprieve
Amtrak and the Bush administration have reached a tentative agreement that would provide enough cash to keep the railroad operating through October. A18.

Fight Looms at Software Maker
Sam Wyly, the Texas billionaire, plans to begin waging another proxy fight to try to oust the chairman and four other directors of Computer Associates, executives said. Mr. Wyly lost a takeover battle last year. C2.

Tentative Footing for Vivendi Chief
Jean-Marie Messier, the chief executive of Vivendi Universal, was able to repulse an effort to force him to resign. But Mr. Messier's footing at Vivendi is far from secure. World Business, Section W.

PBS Goes From TV to the Mall
The Public Broadcasting System has become the latest nonretailer to jump into retail. PBS plans to take its children's programming to the mall, where PBS Kids stores will start appearing, offering reading nooks and television kiosks with PBS programming. Stores will also carry merchandise, like PBS-designed interactive games and PBS Kids T-shirts. Advertising. C10.

Adding Brand Names to Diamonds
De Beers, which still controls about two-thirds of the global trade in diamonds, is encouraging rival producers to compete for consumers' attention by developing brands and marketing programs. World Business, Section W.

New-Home Sales Rose 8.1% in May
New-home sales increased 8.1 percent in May, the biggest advance in six months. In another report, orders for durable goods increased 0.6 percent in May. C11.

Pondering Italy's Labor Laws
Anyone who thinks that the European Union or globalization will lead to the harmonization of national laws and the end of sovereignty should take a close look at labor law reform in Italy. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,120.11 down 6.71Nasdaq composite -- 1,429.33 up 5.3410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.75% down 0.07The euro -- $0.9856 up 0.0073The dollar -- 119.79 yen down 1.61 Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (88%); DIAMOND MARKETS (88%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (87%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (84%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (84%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); WITNESSES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); LITIGATION (70%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); NETWORK TELEVISION (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (82%); FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (82%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%); CA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%); FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (54%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (82%); VIV (BIT) (82%); AGM (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); CA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002 



613 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
Mercedes Revives an Old Name With a Big Price Tag

BYLINE:  By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
IN the 1930's, Germans who wanted to travel in high style had two choices: the 8-cylinder "Grosser" Mercedes 770 or the even bigger 12-cylinder Maybach Zeppelin, named for the airships that Maybach engines also powered. In its day, the Maybach's armchair-like leather seats served royal passengers like Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, King Paul of Greece, Prince Bernard of the Netherlands, assorted Indian maharajas and even commoners like Enrico Caruso and Max Schmeling.
 The last of 1,800 Maybach cars rolled off the assembly line in 1941, when its factories were converted for war production. Now, after 60 years, Mercedes-Benz is reviving the Maybach name for a new brand of imposing executive limousines. The owner-operated Maybach 57 (a mere 18.8 feet) and the chauffeur-driven 62 (over 20 feet) will raise the price ceiling for superluxury cars, starting at close to $300,000 for the shorter version and likely to exceed $350,000 for the Maybach 62. 
 The first Maybach for the United States is scheduled to make a grand entrance to New York, the limousine capital of the world, on Tuesday, arriving as a glass-encased passenger on the foredeck of the Queen Elizabeth 2. From the harbor it will be lifted by helicopter for a triumphal ride down Wall Street, home base for many of the Maybach's presumed customers.
Is there an unfulfilled class of high rollers for whom a $75,000 customized stretch Lincoln with reclining armchairs, bar, fax machine, DVD player and maybe even a hot tub is just not enough? Mercedes is counting on it. "The car will intelligently redefine all conventions in the upper luxury market," Wayne Killen, Maybach brand manager, said this week.
Maybach buyers can choose from a wide range of colors, woods, leathers and trim -- "even granite inserts if customers want that," said Frederick R. Heiler, public relations manager for Mercedes-Benz USA.
The rear of the Maybach 62 will have reclining leather seats, similar to those that coddle first-class airline passengers; flat-screen monitors for watching DVD's; a mini refrigerator; and a set of secondary gauges, including a speedometer, that will let back-seat drivers keep tabs on the driver.
The superluxury segment is now mostly a German industry, with BMW preparing to produce a new version of the Rolls-Royce, a major competitor, and a new, more sporty Bentley on the way from Volkswagen. A network of about 85 Mercedes dealers who will have separate Maybach "commissioning studios" in their showrooms will be in place by September, when the first American orders will be taken. The cars will start reaching customers next spring.
The company expects to sell about 400 Maybachs a year in the United States. S. Paul Halata, chief executive of Mercedes-Benz USA, said that each year 8,500 individuals worldwide spent $250,000 or more on a car, more than half of them in the United States.
The new Maybach is massive, in the tradition of the Zeppelin, and is powered by a V-12 engine. With its conservative, imposing styling and a tall roof, the car vaguely resembles the top-of-the-line Lexus LS 430. The 543-horsepower cars will be built on the highly automated DaimlerChrysler assembly line in Sindelfingen, near Stuttgart, but much handwork will go into the individualized body and interior fittings. Prospective owners will be flattered with factory tours to watch their cars being built, and will have 24-hour access to attentive "Maybach relationship managers" reachable through single-button dialing on the car's telephone keypad.
Tom Mazza, executive director of the National Limousine Association and co-author of the book "Stretching It," says there is "absolutely" a market for a $300,000 executive car. "Everybody focuses on the downturn of the economy," Mr. Mazza said. "And the limousine business was definitely hurt after Sept. 11. But the elite consumer of premium ground transportation is still spending money."
Donald Trump, who certainly qualifies as an elite consumer, affirmed in a telephone interview that there was still some life at the top of the market. "I buy 75 limousines over three years for my various hotels, and I'd certainly be willing to look at the new Maybach," he said.
But Mr. Trump added that it was not frills like fax machines, DVD's or granite accents that interested the high-end players, but something simpler: length. "People really like a stretch," he said.
For this crowd, even the 20-foot Maybach 62 may be too short, compared with a new class of superstretch limos that can reach 28 feet, Mr. Mazza said. "They may have to make it five or six feet longer," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CARRYING ON -- Mercedes is hoping that the aura of the old Maybach will rub off on the new limousines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); BRANDING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); HELICOPTERS (65%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (56%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



614 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF 

BYLINE:  By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:
A Big Success For Sondheim
 The first half of the summerlong Sondheim Celebration honoring Stephen Sondheim, that pre-eminent composer of American musical theater, has been a resounding success for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. 
 All three of the festival's productions so far -- "Sweeney Todd," "Company" and "Sunday in the Park With George" -- have been box-office hits in Washington, with sellouts and waiting lines common. The festival has sold about $5.5 million in tickets. Many of the brightest talents on Broadway have been represented, like the Tony winners Brian Stokes Mitchell and Christine Baranski and the newcomers Raul Esparza and John Barrowman filling leading roles. Critical reaction has also been strong, with largely favorable reviews for "Todd" and "Company," and respectful notices for "Sunday." 
So will any of these musicals come to New York? Not likely. 
There are several reasons. First off, say producers who have seen the shows and Kennedy Center officials, the productions, which were put together with limited rehearsal and preparation time, were never meant to be Broadway tryouts. 
"The festival is an enormous success, but it was never intended to be a feeder for New York transfers," said the producer David Stone. "Why can't it just be judged on its own?"
That said, new productions of Sondheim's work always seem to cause a flutter of anticipation among Broadway's elite, and the Kennedy Center celebration has been no exception. Dozens of Broadway producers have hit the shuttle to Washington in recent weeks, and several are going this weekend for "Company," which completes its run tomorrow.
One major challenge any transfer would face is scheduling. While actors like Mr. Mitchell were able to carve out a couple of months for a chance to play roles like Sweeney Todd, a Broadway run is a much bigger commitment, usually requiring at least a six-month contract. (Not to mention that Mr. Mitchell is already booked to do "Man of La Mancha" at the Martin Beck in the fall.) 
There is also the awkward financial question of how well Mr. Sondheim's work sells on Broadway.
Cynics note that few if any of his copious musicals have been commercial hits in New York, with "Into the Woods" (the 80's version) as a possible exception. "Company" also had a lackluster revival in 1995 at the Roundabout Theater Company.
Still, there may be one opportunity for New York audiences who can't drop in on the festival: there are plans for an October concert at Avery Fisher Hall featuring highlights from all of the celebration's six productions.

Stage Whispers
Two delicious casting rumors were percolating this week.
One was the possible return of Henry Goodman to Broadway, after that British actor's unceremonious firing from "The Producers" in April. As first reported yesterday in Variety, Mr. Goodman has talked to the Roundabout Theater Company about its January production of Moliere's "Tartuffe." 
Adrian Bryan-Brown, a spokesman for the Roundabout, confirmed that Mr. Goodman had been approached but said no deal was in the offing. 
Mr. Goodman, who was dismissed from the role of Max Bialystock (originated by the Tony winner Nathan Lane) after just a month on the job, has been the subject of casting rumors, including speculation that he would take a role in "Chicago" across the street from "The Producers." That didn't happen, but Mr. Goodman, who has ample classical acting chops, has said he would relish a return to Broadway. 
With all due respect, Mr. Goodman's reappearance may not have the same effect on prepubescent girls as the second Broadway casting rumor: Joey Fatone joining "Rent." 
For those of you past your Tiger Beat days, Mr. Fatone is in the multiplatinum boy band 'N Sync, which has blazed new territory in its examinations of adolescent romance and the mysteries of the A-B-A-B rhyme scheme.
Yesterday publicists for "Rent" were besieged with calls after several Internet postings suggested that Mr. Fatone would take a role in that long-running musical in late August. But not so fast, baby. All that Richard Kornberg, a spokesman for the show, could confirm was that Mr. Fatone had seen the show and was a fan. 

Details, Details
Elaine Stritch is expected to play London, but the producer Barry Weissler will not present her there. 
Mr. Weissler confirmed that he had dropped out of a deal to produce Ms. Stritch's hit, "At Liberty," in London after it became apparent that the economics of the deal would be tough to manage. "I honor and applaud her," he said. But he's not going to produce her.
Mr. Weissler, who, like Ms. Stritch, is known for his thrift, would not comment on specifics, but those who have seen the deal that Ms. Stritch wants said it includes taking her music director and her personal assistant. And, as in New York, Ms. Stritch, who is 77, wants to play only five shows a week, meaning that any potential profit margin is thin.
John Schreiber, the New York producer of the show, is in discussions with a set of possible British producers for the show, Sally Greene and Mark Goucher. The target opening date is in the fall; the likely theater the Old Vic. 
As for Ms. Stritch's contractual details, Mr. Schreiber said: "She needs certain things to do the show. I don't think she's being unreasonable."

Along the Way
*Primary Stages, the Off Broadway theater based on West 46th Street, has a new artistic director: Andrew Leynse, the company's former literary manager. He replaces Casey Childs.
*The eighth annual Lincoln Center Director's Lab is at Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, in the South Village. The lab, which offers hands-on training for young theater directors, also includes productions of 26 plays directed by lab participants; through July 26. Information: (212) 647-0202.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the On Stage and Off column on Friday about the appointment of a new artistic director at Primary Stages misstated its location. It is on West 45th Street, not West 46th.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Barrowman stars in "Company," at the Sondheim Celebration. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (91%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%) THEATER; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) PRIMARY STAGES CO; LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO 

PERSON: SONDHEIM, STEPHEN; GOODMAN, HENRY; MOLIERE (JEAN BAPTISTE POQUELIN) (1622-73); STRITCH, ELAINE; WEISSLER, BARRY; CHILDS, CASEY; LEYNSE, ANDREW; MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: SWEENEY TODD (PLAY); COMPANY (PLAY); SUNDAY IN THE PARK WITH GEORGE (PLAY); TARTUFFE (PLAY); ELAINE STRITCH: AT LIBERTY (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



615 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
Back to the Beach for a Blast of 50's Cool

BYLINE:  By SARAH MILSTEIN

 BODY:
IF you grew up in or around southern New Jersey in the early 1960's, there is a good chance that at least once, your parents piled you into their new Chevy Impala and headed to the city of Wildwood on the Jersey Shore. There, you would have relaxed on the wide, clean beaches, indulged in the rides, games and fast food on the lively boardwalk, and spent evenings in one of Wildwood's many mom-and-pop motels, like the Eden Roc and the Caribbean, frolicking in the kidney-shaped pool while your parents sipped mai tais on the deck. 
 The same ritual was performed by countless families in countless beach towns across the country. But as the 1960's progressed, the traditional family vacation became shorter, and destinations changed. Many of the motels and drive-in restaurants that symbolized the era of postwar automobile culture were abandoned, then demolished. 
 That didn't happen in Wildwood and its sister cities, North Wildwood and Wildwood Crest, where about 280 motels built from the late 1940's to the early 1960's survive. Today, many still stand shoulder to shoulder, bearing stylized neon signs with names like the Ala Moana, the Madrid and the Bel-Air and correspondingly decorative themes. For a tiny island community, it's an unusual collection of postwar American roadside architecture. 
"It's a poor man's Miami," said Richard Stokes, a Philadelphia architect who has worked on a number of projects in the Wildwoods. "A lot of the early owners would winter down there and come back with ideas." 
Vacationers who once shunned the Wildwoods' Jetsons-gone-Hawaiian style now thrill to the meeting of modernism and kitsch and are being drawn back. 
"Basically any New Jersey town that has sand and ocean can be a seashore resort," said Jack Morey, 43, a supporter of local architectural preservation whose family business, Morey's Piers, runs three amusement park areas on the boardwalk. "I hope residents can realize this is a place that can be more special." 
When postwar motels began rising, Americans were just gaining a sense of the world from television, and exoticism was in. To appeal to their customers' new sophistication, motel and restaurant owners named and decorated their businesses after distant locales. A typical motel in the commercial Modernist style was made from concrete slabs, with a flat roof and end walls, and exposed balconies. Lobbies were distinct.
In Miami, this style is called Mimo; in Southern California, it's called Populux. In the Wildwoods, it's been christened Doo Wop. 
"One thing that separates Wildwood from other areas with concentrations of midcentury Modern is that most of the motels' 'theming' elements were conceived by the individual owners or the local sign company, not architects," Mr. Stokes said.
Dan Barsanti, 41, an interior designer in New York and Westport, Conn., visited the Wildwoods for the first time in May. He and his wife are returning in August with their 10-year-old son and 6-year-old twins. They are bringing four other Westport families with them. 
"Because we're snobs, I thought, 'Oh, the Jersey Shore, yuck,' " Mr. Barsanti said. "But the beach was so beautiful and the boardwalk is heaven for our kids. We loved South Beach six years ago, but it's become a giant outdoor mall." 
The Wildwoods, he said, are much more comfortable than Miami, Nantucket or the Hamptons. "The draw is that it's not pretentious Philippe Starck hotels. It's a bunch of old-timers who take care of their places. This is the real thing." 
Once defined by a sense of new possibilities and striving middle-class spirit, the Wildwoods began sliding into disrepair in the 1970's and 80's, and the area's exuberant tackiness turned into seediness. 
"We stagnated," said Dan MacElrevey, 60, president of the Greater Wildwood Hotel and Motel Association. "Resorts need to change or they die." But the cloud over the area had a neon lining. While other cities on the Jersey Shore, like Cape May and Atlantic City, reinvented themselves, the Wildwoods simply grew old, their distinctive buildings dilapidated but intact. 
Preservation of the Wildwoods began in earnest in 1996, when Mr. Morey hired Steve Izenour, a principal with the Philadelphia architectural firm Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates, to work on the Port Royal hotel in Wildwood Crest. Mr. Izenour, who died this year, was delighted by the area's visual riot. 
He led a group of professors and students of architecture and urban planning at the University of Pennsylvania, Yale University and Kent State University to study the Wildwoods. They suggested that visitors could be drawn to the area by emphasizing the giddy architecture, and they appropriated the term doo-wop, mostly associated with 1950's a cappella music, to describe the style. In 1997, Mr. Morey founded the Doo Wop Preservation League (www.doowopusa.org). Its name notwithstanding, the group's goal is not exactly preservation. Instead, the league advocates reinterpreting Doo Wop and making it bolder. 
Take the StarLux motel, for example. With a soaring convex lounge, a kidney-shaped pool and pristine plastic palms, it's a showpiece for Doo Wop. But in fact, it's a drastic remodeling of the 1951 Wingate Motel. 
While the new lobby has a nifty recreation room look and is stocked with vintage copies of Woman's Day, it also offers current copies of the slick design magazines I.D. and Modernism. The rooms are outfitted in a style that is more evocative than authentic, with furnishings like the late 1990's Karim Rashid Oh Chair and jazzy carpeting that might look at home in a movie theater lobby. 
Mr. Morey says the space age presence of the new StarLux is inspiring renovation around town. A few blocks away, Mari Gluzinski is sprucing up the 1958 Eden Roc motel to a Doo Wop tune. Although it originally had a brown-and-gold color scheme (common at the time), Ms. Gluzinski has refreshed it with pink and teal accents. She is adding bright new decking and plastic palms around the pool. 
Many of her customers come for the Doo Wop touches, she said. "They're looking for Doo Wop hotels," she said. "That's been true the two years I've had the Eden Roc. But this year is definitely better than last year. I'm almost full for July, the whole month. I'm turning people away now, and last year I wasn't."
Ms. Gluzinski is not alone. "From what we're hearing from the hotels and motels, occupancy the last three years has been up each year," said Andrew Cripps, executive director of the Greater Wildwood Chamber of Commerce. To cater to the Wildwoods' new guests, a handful of grown-up establishments have dropped anchor in town. Maureen Restaurant and Martini Bar features campy six-foot martini signs outside but serves international cuisine. Claude's, which serves French food, and Marie Nicole's, an Asian- and Caribbean-influenced restaurant, are both well regarded and provide respite from the corn dogs and curly fries peddled on the boardwalk. 
Still, the economic revival of the Wildwoods is not complete. Many hotels appear run-down and many of the old downtown storefronts along Pacific Avenue sit empty. At Schellenger and Atlantic Avenues, one of Wildwood's main intersections, the Shore movie theater is boarded up. And, like most towns on the Jersey Shore, the Wildwoods are facing development pressure. Small properties are often worth more for their land than for the motels themselves. 
"The Wildwood economy is good," Mr. Morey explained, "so in the short term a developer can make more money buying a hotel, tearing it down and building a condo." 
Mr. Stokes, the architect, is concerned about the situation. "Roadsides used to be covered by these buildings," he said. "Most have been destroyed or remodeled beyond recognition. Palm Springs, Calif., and southern Los Angeles still have a lot of great buildings left, but they're rapidly disappearing. 
"One of the great things about Wildwood is not the particular motels, it's the collection. Once you start to dilute that collection, you lose that feeling." 

IF YOU GO
Wildwood, Where Doo Wop Meets Main

GETTING THERE
Wildwood is about 160 miles south of New York City. Take the Garden State Parkway to Exit 4B. Stay on Route 47 East until it becomes Rio Grande Avenue, which leads right into Wildwood.

WHERE TO STAY
The StarLux is renovated in high Doo Wop style (305 East Rio Grande Avenue; 609-522-7412).
The Madrid Ocean Resort is in the quieter Wildwood Crest (427 East Miami Avenue; 609-729-1600).
The Caribbean Motel is one of the area's best examples of original Doo Wop (5600 Ocean Avenue; 609-522-8292).

WHERE TO EAT
Claude's Restaurant serves French food in an intimate setting highlighted by a collection of glass lamps (100 Old New Jersey Avenue; 609-522-0400).
Maureen Restaurant and Martini Bar features sophisticated adult fare (try the grilled scallops in a wasabi cream sauce) and 24 kinds of martinis (Atlantic and Schellenger Avenues; 609-522-7747).

THINGS TO DO
The Doo Wop Preservation League (www.doowopusa.com) offers trolley tours of the area's architecture. To get the best sense of the Wildwoods' gaudy neon, cruise around in a car at night. Erik Starzell, a designer at the A.B.S. Sign Company, recommends the signs for the Carousel Motel, the Pulaski Motor Inn, Hudson Ice Cream and the neighboring Satellite Motel. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE SANDS -- Like many motels in the Wildwoods, the American Safari (left) features fake palms and modern decor. Throughout the beach cities, distinctive neon signs (above) offer direction. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times); (Michael Sypniewski for The New York Times)(pg. F5); HOT SPOT -- In Wildwood, N.J., motels like the Caribbean preserve the spirit and the giddy architecture of summers past. (Michael Sypniewski for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BEACHES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MOREY'S PIERS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



616 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
For Renters, Weekend Flings (Just Don't Tell the Minivan)

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN

 BODY:
AS economics professors will tell you, the value of a commodity invariably decreases over time. So the first drive in a new car is bound to be magical. The second drive will be a tiny fraction less exciting, the third a little bit less than that, and so on. By, say, the 3,014th trip behind the same wheel, most drivers are looking longingly at car commercials.
 Some drivers, however, are recapturing that first-drive feeling over and over by leaving their Civics and Cavaliers in the garage on weekends and renting something with a little more zip or style. Many of these pleasure renters want something different, not because they need it, but simply to suit their mood. Some want to appear like a different kind of person -- one with more money, or at least a more adventurous taste in cars. 
 "You can live the life of a millionaire for a week or a three-day weekend," said Scott Montgomery, 31, a truck driver from Marengo, Ill., as he recalled the longing looks from passers-by who witnessed him picking up his fiancee after work in a pristine 1968 Pontiac GTO muscle car. 
If relationships between drivers and cars can be viewed as romantic, Americans seem to want more automotive affairs. A survey conducted this year for Enterprise Rent-A-Car, which has the largest share of the nonairport car rental market, suggested that people are growing less satisfied with the image projected by the cars they own. Sixty-nine percent of the respondents said their cars met their "style needs," down from 86 percent in a similar survey in 1995. 
One possible explanation is that people are keeping their cars longer than they used to, leading some to experience the driveway version of the seven-year itch. 
"We are developing serial relationships, rather than just a monogamous relationship with a single car," said Michael Marsden, an expert in popular culture who is the provost at Eastern Kentucky University in Richmond.
Christian Padjen, 27, a property manager who lives in Berwyn, Ill., drives a rare Dodge Viper sports car, but only part of the time. For about one week a month he signs the Viper out of a rental car agency. He says he has almost as much fun driving it as he did driving the Viper he owned five years ago but sold after it was repeatedly vandalized. The steering feels the same. The clutch feels the same. More important, the admiring looks he gets are the same, whether the car is his, or his for a week. 
"I'm happy when I see other people look at it," he said. "I get a thrill out of it."
Of all the drivers on the road, minivan and pickup truck owners are perhaps most likely to rent a car to burnish their images. The Enterprise survey reported that 79 percent of minivan owners said they would prefer to use another car if they were going on a date, and 83 percent of pickup truck owners said they would prefer another car if they were going to a wedding.
In Beverly Hills, Calif., where automotive vanity is palpable, the Budget Rent a Car serves people who want to make a good impression by pulling up in a Cadillac Escalade, a Porsche convertible, a Maserati Spyder or the latest in automotive fashion. "They want to know what's hot and what's not," said Ken Kerzner, president of the Budget branch. "They're coming to L.A., where you are what you drive."
For some pleasure renters, a borrowed car is an exercise in nostalgia. Much of Garo Babikian's driving life has been spent in the imperial comfort of two Cadillac DeVilles. He owned them in succession between 1982 and 1995 and remembers the cars, with their leather seats and smooth steering, with a tinge of wistfulness. 
"It had everything you can imagine," he said, recalling the second DeVille, a 1990 model. "A remote control key chain, cruise control, a CD player, everything." 
Mr. Babikian, 56, an architect who lives in Laguna Niguel, Calif., sold his Cadillac. He and his wife, Julie, share a 2002 Dodge Intrepid. For day-to-day driving, the Dodge, a midsize sedan, is not particularly exhilarating but gets the job done.
But for special occasions, Mr. Babikian likes to look around. For a few occasions -- like visits to his daughter, four hours away in San Luis Obispo -- Mr. Babikian gets back into that regal leather seat when he rents a DeVille. 
For pleasure renters whose appetites are not served by the national chains, there are rental-car specialists in a number of major cities. Both Mr. Montgomery and Mr. Padjen use Exotic Car Share, a seven-year-old company in Palatine, a Chicago suburb, which sells a time-sharing arrangement for people who want to forget about the sensible cars sitting in their garages.
Along with classic American sports cars, Exotic Car Share offers Hummers, Rolls-Royces, Alfa Romeos, Porsches and Ferraris. 
"It's for people who would never dream of spending $300,000 on an automobile," said George Kiebala, the chief executive. "They've never had a Jaguar XK, but wouldn't mind driving it for a week."
When they bring the cars back, the most frequent comment is "they'll never get tired of the stares, that they never expected to have this much attention," Mr. Kiebala said.
Of course, the one feeling that is obviously missing is pride of ownership. While thoroughly enjoying his rented Viper, Mr. Padjen said something about renting made him long to own one again. 
Renters have other motivations besides pure pleasure. When Harry Hughes, a retired aerospace engineer from Fort Worth, drives friends and acquaintances to Louisiana riverboats for high-stakes blackjack, he does not take either of his two Toyota Camrys. He rents a roomy new DeVille or Lincoln Town Car.
"They kind of expect that you'll be driving something like that based on the way I bet," said Mr. Hughes, who wins or loses as much as $35,000 in a weekend at the tables.
Whether or not he comes out ahead, living the life of a high roller means having the Rolex, the diamond pinky ring and, of course, the luxury car. "It's a good ego trip for them and it's a good ego trip for me," he said. "They don't know it's a rented car. It's none of their business."
And then there are those who rent not to attract attention but to avoid it.
Jeremy Procon, 25, a tow-truck owner in Chicopee, Mass., normally drives a new Ford Expedition sport utility vehicle. But for his honeymoon, he rented a Ford Windstar minivan so he and his wife, Kristen, 24, could tour the East Coast. 
Driving a minivan, he admitted, was "a little degrading." Especially so when he ran into a friend in Boca Raton, Fla., who was driving a Mercedes SL500 convertible.
But Mr. Procon had his reasons. "I'm not here to pick up women," he said by phone recently from Orlando, Fla., where he and his wife were staying. "I just got married."

THE PRICE OF LUXURY
Want a Spin in a Lamborghini? Only $2,800 a Day
One way to drive a car that has extreme power, prestige or novelty value is to visit an exotic-car rental counter. Here are select models, with daily rental prices quoted. Some companies require a minimum two-day rental, and some have charges of 50 cents to $1 a mile, which take effect immediately or after a certain number of miles.

NEW YORK
New York Exotic Car Rentals (212-254-1884; www.nycexoticcarrentals.com) in Greenwich Village welcomes college students, who can try a Lexus for $159.99 to $299.99, or a Mercedes for $199.99 to $499.99.

LOS ANGELES
Budget Rent a Car of Beverly Hills (800-227-7117; www.budgetbeverlyhills .com), which sits at the universal center of car vanity, features a Bentley Azure convertible ($1,800), a Ferrari 360 Modena ($1,800) and a Plymouth Prowler ($270 when booked over the Internet or $300 over the phone).
Beverly Hills Rent a Car (800-479-5996; www.bhrentacar.com) has a Lamborghini Diablo VT ($2,800) and a 1969 Cadillac DeVille ($399).

LAS VEGAS
At Dream Car Rentals (877-373-2601; www.dreamcarrentals.com) you can rent the only car to drive in Las Vegas: a 1959 Cadillac El Dorado convertible ($300). For the rugged look, try a Hummer ($345).

BOSTON
Exotic Car Boston (781-289-0002; www.selectcarrental.com) is owned by Thrifty Car Rental and operates out of Logan International Airport. There, you can rent a Corvette convertible ($249) and a BMW Z3 convertible ($149).

DALLAS AREA
Exotic Car Rental of Texas in Plano (972-633-3929; www.exoticcarrentaloftex as.com) has a Dodge Viper ($499) and a Porsche 911 ($499).

GRAPHIC: Photo: STEP OUT -- For Garo and Julie Babikian, a Cadillac DeVille says more than their regular car can. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times)(pg. F1) Drawing (Kathryn Adams)(pg. F11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (86%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); SPORTS CARS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



617 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Trade Rules Power Up Motorcycles Of Taiwan 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, June 27 

 BODY:
Chen Ming-hwa, a 22-year-old college student, watched intently as a repairman here modified the engine on his gray 125-cc Kymco motorcycle to increase its power to the equivalent of a 180-cc bike.
 But for Mr. Chen, the modification is not enough. By the end of the year, he hopes to buy an imported Kawasaki motorcycle with a much bigger engine that displaces at least 500 cubic centimeters. "I'm getting a little bit tired of a small bike," he said. "I want the feeling of a bigger bike." 
 Mr. Chen and many other motorcyclists in Taiwan will get their first chance on Monday. Under the terms of its accession to the World Trade Organization last December, Taiwan, one of the world's largest motorcycle markets, is dropping a ban on private registrations of bikes with engines bigger than 150 cc.
More powerful motorcycles have been reserved for the police and the military here since before Mr. Chen was born, and they have acquired a special mystique here as a result.
The ban was imposed in 1979 to conserve energy, but it has served as a trade barrier as well. Taiwan's three motorbike manufacturers -- Kymco; San Yang Industry; and Yamaha, a joint venture between a Taiwanese company and Yamaha of Japan -- are extremely strong competitors in the market for small motorcycles, supplying the entire domestic market and exporting another one-third of their production as well. But the Taiwanese manufacturers have little expertise in building large motorcycles.
Practically every major motorcycle manufacturer in the world is now preparing to re-enter the Taiwan market with bigger bikes, from full-line Japanese makers like Honda and Kawasaki to luxury and specialty brands like BMW of Germany and Harley-Davidson of the United States. They are drawn to an unusual market where motorcycles outsell cars by two to one -- the result of $2.20-a-gallon gasoline prices, chronic traffic jams and incomes still below Western standards.
"Not importing for more than 20 years -- definitely, a lot of buying power accumulates," said Roland Lu, the special sales manager for motorcycles here for Bayerische Motoren Werke. BMW is planning to sell motorcycles with engines up to 1,200 cc in Taiwan later this year, for prices reaching $30,000.
Yeh Feng-ming, a spokesman for San Yang, said that his company and its domestic competitors were confident that most Taiwan buyers would continue to want small domestic motorcycles, because they are very cheap by world standards and can be serviced practically everywhere. Motor scooters with 50-cc engines retail for around $1,000 here; 150-cc motorbikes, about twice that. The domestic manufacturers are also trying to develop motorcycles with engines of up to 250 cc.
Still, government officials are watching carefully. "Taiwan is pretty advanced in the small scooters," said Yeh Wei-yu, the senior engineer for motorcycles at the Industrial Development Bureau. "The local industry is way behind on the larger bikes."
Many industries in Taiwan, including high-technology businesses like semiconductor and computer manufacturers, are moving operations to mainland China. But the motorcycle industry has stayed here, employing 10,000 people in this nation of 20 million, and that gives it extra influence with government officials who worry about the loss of manufacturing jobs.
China is trying to jump directly from bicycles to cars, skipping over motorcycles, which produce nearly as much air pollution as cars. The Chinese government has discouraged the establishment of a large domestic motorcycle industry.
While dropping the ban on private registrations of large motorcycles, Taiwanese regulators are taking several steps that will tend to slow any shift toward big imported bikes. For starters, they are imposing strict tailpipe emissions rules on motorcycles over 250 cc.
Regulators are also drafting the world's most stringent standards for how hot the exteriors of motorcycle exhaust systems can become. With 10 million motorcycles in use here, nearly one for each adult, many commuters in shorts suffer burns on their legs from grazing other motorcyclists' tailpipes and mufflers in dense traffic.
The government will also require special drivers' licenses to operate bikes with engines over 250 cc. Motorists must take 32 hours of instruction to earn the special licenses, and the government has so far offered only a single small class, using government-owned bikes. Private driving schools are lining up to offer the course once they, too, can legally register big motorcycles.
Mr. Yeh said that all these policies were meant to protect the public interest, not to erect new, less obvious trade barriers. "Taiwan cannot afford to do anything to hinder the market," he said, because of a national commitment to abide by free-trade rules.
Some motorcycle shop owners are skeptical that there will be many buyers for big motorcycles, especially at first. They warn that the market even for small motorcycles has been weak because of a long recession that is only now starting to show signs of ending, and because of Taipei's new subway system, opened in stages over the last four years.
Lee Huang-fu, the manager of a motorcycle store across the street from where Mr. Chen was having his bike engine upgraded, sat next to a battered desk and looked sadly at his selling floor, where a few salesmen loitered with little to do. "The economy is bad," he said. "People cannot afford even the small bikes nowadays."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chen Ming-hwa, a motorcycle owner in Taiwan, monitors Huang Mao-feng, a mechanic, who is making his bike engine more powerful. (Keith Bradsher/The New York Times)(pg. W1) Chart: "Making Do With Two Wheels"Taiwan residents buy more motorbikes than cars, although sales of both have suffered lately because of an economic slowdown. Graph tracks motorbike sales and car sales, measured in millions, from 1992 to 2001. (Source: Taiwan Auto Industry Association)(pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); MOTORCYCLES (93%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (89%); SMALL ENGINE MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (89%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); JOINT VENTURES (51%) MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR BIKES AND MOTORSCOOTERS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (74%); SAN YANG INDUSTRY CO LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (74%); BMW (BIT) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAIWAN (98%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



618 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 880 words

PERSON: Stanley Aronowitz 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
The Anti-Candidate, Out to Anger the Rich

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES 

 BODY:
EVERY election year, it seems, a candidate emerges and, citing the erosion of our political system, the vapid sound bites, the fleeing from real debate, the fusion of entertainment and political campaigning, declares that it is not worth playing by the rules. 
 Enter Stanley Aronowitz, 69, the Green Party's nominee this year for governor of New York, who, when you listen to him call for higher taxes to increase money for schools, pay for campaign finance reform and establish state-subsidized health insurance, is the anti-candidate this time around. He has set out to anger the powerful and the rich who, he says, pull the strings of the "Cheney-Rumsfeld-Bush regime," stressing that the troika is listed in order of importance. And, like all of those who believe in a cause, he is willing to go down with the ship rather than compromise. 
 "My job is to start a public conversation, to show voters they have a choice and to get enough of a vote so we can stay on the ballot and speak out," he said. "I am an intellectual. My work as a teacher and a writer is to elaborate on views and talk about them in detail."
Mr. Aronowitz drives himself to campaign gatherings around the state in his 1995 Volvo. He sleeps in the homes of supporters and keeps within his allotted daily campaign travel budget of $50 a day. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who is running without the support of most of the party establishment, has raised millions so far for his campaign. Mr. Aronowitz, who has never run for public office, has raised $25,000. The Green Party has no budget for television advertising or to hire campaign workers. The whole campaign, he estimates, will cost about $150,000.
He blasts the money spent by corporations on the two major parties and those candidates, like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who can use personal fortunes to run for office.
"In many local communities we cannot get into the conversation because we have no television advertising," he said. "How can parties like ours have a conversation when a $78 million expenditure by a private businessperson buys an election?"
He began to admire President Francois Mitterrand of France once he heard him speak in Paris without notes on a range of complex political issues.
"When you give stump speeches you end up boring yourself and your audience," he said. "I heard Mitterrand and thought that if I ever ran for public office I would like to do it like that."
Mr. Aronowitz wants to be the little red light blinking on citizens' dashboards to tell them the system needs repair. And if, he said, "a few more thousand people" get the message he will have considered the time and energy worth it.
"OUR democracy is in trouble," he said. "The Democratic and Republican Parties have converged. Their economic policies are not different. They believe that anything that hurts business is not a viable position."
Mr. Aronowitz, who teaches sociology at the City University of New York, is not, however, a man who stepped out of the cloistered garden of academia. He has always been a rebel. He was thrown out of Brooklyn College as a freshman in 1951 for leading a campus demonstration after the administration banned a radical newspaper. He was married at 19 and had two children by the time he was 23. He is on his third marriage; his wife is the writer and N.Y.U. journalism professor Ellen Willis. He has five children. He and Professor Willis live in Washington Square Village.
Mr. Aronowitz worked for a decade as a steelworker in Harrison, N.J., and for seven years as an organizer for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers. Fifteen years after leaving college he went to the New School for Social Research and got a B.A. in sociology, and later got a doctorate in sociology from Union Graduate School.
Ideas spill out of his head -- he speaks in long machine-gun bursts -- with a Brooklyn twang. He has always had a voracious appetite for books and relishes discussing Hannah Arendt or Herbert Marcuse as much as he does global warming. When he ended his night shift in the steel mill, he ate breakfast and went to the company library for an hour or two before going home. He started a reading group with other workers -- they read mostly novels -- and would get home at noon and sleep until his shift began again.
"One of the reasons I chose the steel mill, rather than an automobile factory where I could have made more money, was because when you work near furnaces you work 40 minutes on and 20 minutes off," he said. "I spent part of the 20 minutes politicking, because I was a union activist. But many times I would go into the bathroom and read. At that period in my life I read American history."
"I learned as a labor organizer how to translate substantive, often difficult ideas, into the vernacular," he said. "I learned to talk plain but to talk real issues."
"The Brothers Karamazov" by Fyodor Dostoyevsky, he said, is one of his favorite pieces of fiction, along with the novels of William Faulkner. But these works, he said, were not always translatable to the crowd.
"Dostoyevsky taught me about irony," he said. "I have great trouble with this as a would-be politician. You cannot be a successful politician and be ironic. Our slogan -- tax and spend -- is meant to be ironic, but people don't get it. They get upset."

GRAPHIC: Photo: STANLEY ARONOWITZ (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY 

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%) ARONOWITZ, STANLEY; HEDGES, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (69%) NEW YORK STATE

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



619 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Officials Will Tour A Changed New York

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
For the first time since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, a United States Olympic Committee task force will visit New York on Sunday and Monday to evaluate its worthiness to be America's designated host city competing for the 2012 Summer Games.
 The Olympic plan laid out by NYC2012 for the task force's visit last summer, which advanced New York into a pool of four candidate cities, has not changed much. 
 But the city's image has.
"We don't want any sympathy for that," said Daniel L. Doctoroff, who founded NYC2012, a nonprofit group that is lobbying for the Games, and who is now the city's deputy mayor for economic development. 
After Sept. 11, he said, "The rest of the country saw in New York the true face of the city: the compassion, the courage and the resilience."
The premise of the Olympic bid is that New York's spirit and ethnic diversity, as well as its ability to handle security for enormous events, embody Olympic ideals.
New York's rivals -- San Francisco, Houston and Washington-Baltimore -- offer their own variations of the patriotic-Olympic sentiments.
The four cities are competing to be among the two chosen by the U.S.O.C. task force in September. Then, in November, the full Olympic Committee board will select the city it will present to the International Olympic Committee; the I.O.C. will make a final choice in 2005.
The task force will tour some athletic sites and the location of the proposed Olympic Village in Long Island City on Sunday. But the critical part of the visit will be a planned five-hour session at City Hall on Monday, in which the task force will pose questions to a group that will include NYC2012 officials, some Olympians and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly.
"We'll get grilled," Doctoroff said.
The group will also show the U.S.O.C. panel two new videos and a scale model of the Olympic Village, which would be converted into housing after the Olympics.
In conjunction with the task force's visit, NYC2012 is draping several prominent buildings -- among them Madison Square Garden, the AOL Time Warner headquarters building that is under construction at Columbus Circle and the Pace University building opposite City Hall -- with 42-foot banners proclaiming, "We've been training for this forever." Newspapers will be inserted over the weekend with posters featuring a map of the 26 sites that would be reached by ferry or rail.
Although the fundamentals of NYC2012's athletic, housing, transportation, finance and security plans have not been changed, more detail has been added. The group has a more detailed environmental impact plan for the two existing lakes at Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; these would be merged into one for canoeing and rowing.
Meanwhile, consultants have been hired by city or state agencies to study urban design and zoning of the far West Side of Manhattan, where the NYC2012 plan envisions extending the No. 7 subway line.
Two other studies are under way to analyze financing for the subway extension and the building of platforms over the Long Island Rail Road storage yards, upon which an extension of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center would be built. It would be convertible into a stadium for the Jets, and also for the Olympics.
NYC2012 has not moved the proposed locations of any sports, as San Francisco and Washington have done to provide tighter clusters of sites to ease athlete and spectator movement.
San Francisco shifted some events from Sacramento, while Washington moved some sports from George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., and others from the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. The New York and Houston groups deemed their plans compact enough.
NYC2012 expects to spend about $13 million to mount its bid and has raised $11 million, Jay L. Kriegel, the group's executive director, said. "We've been very frugal, very careful," he said, adding that additional fund-raising would be necessary if New York receives the U.S.O.C.'s designation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (95%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); MAYORS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (65%) OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS) 

COMPANY: AOL INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (92%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (54%) UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); BALTIMORE (MD); HOUSTON (TEX); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



620 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: China Emerges As Rival to U.S. In Asian Trade 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, June 27 

 BODY:
From South Korea to Indonesia, China is rapidly strengthening its economic presence across Asia, gobbling up foreign investment and chipping away at the United States' position as the region's economic engine.
 As it buys up goods, parts and raw materials from its neighbors as never before, China has accompanied its new heft with diplomatic efforts to assure them that it wants to offer cooperation, not competition. Many have rushed to China's embrace and are nimbly shifting their economic alliances, particularly as the United States makes its way through only a tentative economic recovery. 
 "For all these countries in Asia, China is such a large force, the only rational response is to figure out how to work with it," said Nicholas R. Lardy of the Brookings Institution. "It can't be stopped." 
The United States still remains an essential trading partner for Asian countries but is becoming somewhat less important in the face of China's rise, analysts say. Some see China's economic thrust, more apparent now under its newly minted membership in the World Trade Organization, as the beginning of an inescapable process of China replacing the United States as the dominant power in Asia.
Inevitably, said James Castle, a longtime American businessman in Indonesia and until recently the leader of the American Chamber of Commerce here, "the policy leverage of the United States as the great market is sure to decline."
China is already an economic and political threat to Japan, the prime ally of the United States in the region, these analysts say. Mr. Lardy says China's trade is now growing at a faster rate than Japan's growth during its boom years in the 1960's and 1970's. 
Asian exports are rebounding on the strength of this rapid expansion as China buys more and more from its Asian neighbors.
Here in Indonesia, President Megawati Sukarnoputri has buried age-old hostilities as she woos the Chinese government, hoping that it will award Indonesia a $9 billion liquid natural gas contract to power the industries of southern China.
At the same time, China is grabbing much of the new foreign investment in Asia, leaving its once-glittering neighbors -- Thailand, South Korea, Singapore -- with crumbs compared with the record $50 billion China is expected to gain this year.
China -- a hungry importer, a siphon of other nations' foreign investment and a surging exporter of cheap manufactured goods -- is forcing its Asian neighbors to adjust. 
Some, looking to stave off China for as long as possible and in an effort to ensure a future balance in the region, have tried to hedge their position with the United States.
Singapore, for example, is in the final stages of negotiating a free trade agreement with Washington, trying to guarantee that its solid ties with the United States will continue.
So far, the Bush administration has been loath to talk publicly about China as an economic challenger in Asia. But on a recent tour through Southeast Asia, the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, dispensed advice to allies on the subject: he told the 10-member Association of South East Asian Nations, or Asean, usually a group of bickering competitors, that they had a better chance of surviving Chinese dominance as cohesive trading partners than as individual competitors.
While deep concerns about being left in the shadow of China endure, Asian leaders are choosing to praise China's rapid development as a benefit to their economies. 
Singapore's exports to China surged by 69 percent in April, over the previous April, mainly because of petrochemical and pharmaceutical sales. Malaysia's exports to China have increased by more than 30 percent in the last three months, driven mostly by electronic products.
In a sign of the new realism about China, Asean, yet to agree on a free trade zone among its members, agreed last November to trade talks with China. The idea for the trade zone came from China, acting to alleviate resentment in the region over its new membership in the World Trade Organization.
Now a mutual courtship has emerged between China and its neighbors. "I look at China as a friendly force," said Indonesia's minister of trade and industry, Rini Soewandi. "It is a potential market for us and China sees Asean as a potential market for them."
President Megawati, who is taking a more independent stance regarding the United States than her predecessors, has visited China twice since becoming president less than a year ago. Until recently, Indonesia had viewed China as a hostile power.
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia told his fellow leaders they should stop looking at China as a "black hole" that sucked foreign investment from its neighbors. Dell Computer decided recently to move some of its computer-making facilities from Kuala Lumpur to China. But, said Dr. Mahathir, "We want to live with the fact that there is a China there and it is going to be a very prosperous, very big and economically powerful China."
At China's embassies in the region, diplomats are open to talk of new cooperation. "Economically we are more complementary with Southeast Asia than Europe is with the United States," said Tan Weiwen, the minister counselor for economics and commerce at the Chinese Embassy in Jakarta as he repeated the government mantra. "Everybody is comfortable with each other."
The sudden economic influence of China on the region is evident almost daily. New statistics from Singapore show that the country lost more than 42,000 jobs in the last five years, most of them to China. With the property market stuck in the doldrums, Singapore developers are moving to Shanghai to grab a corner of the boom in what is commonly regarded as Asia's most vibrant city.
"Singapore has to do things that the Chinese can't do," said Andy Xie, the chief economist for Asia and the Pacific at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, who believes that Southeast Asian countries will survive best by creating niche markets for themselves in China.
"Singapore stands for business integrity so when a Singapore company builds property in Shanghai, it sells well," Mr. Xie said.
Chinese tourists have become the fastest growing business opportunity for Asian countries. They peer at sites in Thailand and Malaysia that used to be the preserves of American and Japanese travelers. Chinese products are also appearing from Taipei to Jakarta. Cheap Chinese motorcycles, made at a joint venture plant, are flooding the urban centers of Indonesia, for instance.
As part of what China is calling its "go global" strategy, the Bank of China has opened branches in Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore and will soon reopen one in Jakarta.
But the key for China's neighbors, say analysts, will be how each one fashions its response to a growing China. South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore have recorded strong gains in exports to China in recent months.
But Mr. Xie said the strong exports by South Korea and Taiwan to China could prove to be a fleeting success. "The export story for South Korea and Taiwan may not be so good because the components and parts factories will shift to China," he said. "Anything with volume is likely to end up in China."
South Korea and Taiwan, as well as Malaysia and Singapore, will have to adapt cleverly by going further upscale, he said. For example, with its well-educated work force, Singapore plans to spend billions of dollars to reinvent itself as the biomedical center of Asia.
Indonesia, a major producer of oil and gas, appeared to be in a strong longer-term position as China looks to invest there to double its oil consumption in the next decade, he said. In January, the Chinese state-owned offshore oil company CNOOC bought the lucrative Indonesian oil and gas fields owned by the Spanish company Repsol-YPF for $585 million. Last month, the PetroChina Company outbid four rivals to buy the Indonesian assets of the Devon Energy Corporation for $262 million.
Some Asian officials say they fear that Southeast Asia will be relegated to the role of supplier of food and raw materials to China in exchange for cheap manufactured goods that will, in turn, harm their own businesses.
But for now, China's need for imported energy combined with its desire to diversify its supplies, from the Middle East primarily, is making Indonesia, at least, feel confident.
President Megawati's chief economic adviser, Laksamana Sukardi, arrived for breakfast with reporters recently carrying a Chinese-language book under his arm. "The future," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Trading Partners"As China's economy expands, its trade with the 10 countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) is increasing. Exports -- Share of Asean exports Graph tracks the shares of Asean exports for the United States, Japan and China since 1990. Imports -- Share of Asean imports Graph tracks the shares of Asean imports for the United States, Japan and China since 1990. (Source: Morgan Stanley)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GAS (FUEL); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MEGAWATI SUKARNOPUTRI (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); INDONESIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (92%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA; THAILAND; INDONESIA; SINGAPORE

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



621 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

China Emerging as Rival To U.S. in Asian Trade
China is rapidly strengthening its economic presence across Asia, gobbling up foreign investment and chipping away at the United States' position as the region's economic engine. A1

U.N. Rebukes Beijing on AIDS
The United Nations issued a public criticism of China's handling of its growing H.I.V./AIDS epidemic. A3

Aid to Africa Tied to Reforms
President Bush and other leaders of major industrial countries ended the Group of 8 meeting by pledging billions in aid to African nations that reform economies and governments. But they offered only vague assurances that they would curb their own farm subsidies, which African leaders say undercut poor nations. A8

Israel Hits Palestinian Office
Israeli troops pounded Palestinian Authority offices in Hebron for a third day in an effort to dislodge 15 gunmen they said were holed up there. Seven Palestinian cities in the West Bank remained under Israeli curfew. A6

Jericho remains the only major West Bank city that is not locked under curfew by Israeli tanks. A6

Algerian to Be Extradited
A Canadian judge has ordered the extradition of an Algerian immigrant to the Netherlands, where the Rotterdam police have charged him in a plot to blow up the United States Embassy in Paris. A8

U.S. Threatens U.N. Veto
The United States threatened to veto a renewal of the multinational force in Bosnia unless the peacekeepers were granted immunity from the International Criminal Court. The dispute has pitted the United States against the European Union and other United Nations members. A6

Russian Hate Crime Bill
A Kremlin-backed bill to fight hate crimes and attacks by fascist groups passed a final vote in the lower house of Parliament. The bill defines the crime of extremism and sets out tough punishments. Rights advocates say it may give too much power to the police. A9

World Briefing A11

NATIONAL A12-25

House G.O.P. Wins Round On Medicare Drug Bill
Republicans leaders survived a preliminary test of strength on their bill to provide prescription drug benefits to elderly people. A move to bar Democrats from offering amendments or substitutes passed, 218 to 213. A16

Intelligence-Sharing Promised
The directors of the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. told Congress that their agencies would share sensitive intelligence with the proposed Department of Homeland Security. A16

New Red Cross Chief
The American National Red Cross selected Marsha Johnson Evans, 54, who is the national executive director of Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. A18

EDUCATION

Justices Endorse Vouchers
The Supreme Court upheld, 5 to 4, the use of public money for religious school tuition in a ruling that the majority called an outgrowth of recent decisions and the dissenters described as a fundamental shift. A1

Religious advocates are now planning to push for more public money for other religious programs, like charities, social services and hospitals. A24

Court Allows Drug Testing
The Supreme Court upheld, 5 to 4, the widespread use of random drug testing of public school students. A1

Decision to Change SAT
The College Board announced a major overhaul of the nation's leading college entrance exam. A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Warning on Breast Cancer Drug
The F.D.A. said tamoxifen, prescribed for women with or at high risk for breast cancer, might cause a rare but aggressive cancer of the uterus. A14

Better Colon Cancer Surgery
A less invasive surgical technique for removing colon cancers is superior to the standard operation because it can reduce the risk of the cancer's recurring and improve chances for survival, a Spanish study found. A25

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Adult Home's Operators Are Accused of Fraud
The father-and-son operators of a long-troubled 125-bed home for mentally ill adults in Queens, Ocean House Center, were indicted on an array of fraud charges. A1

No Give on New Recycling Rules
The sanitation commissioner said the city would not pick up trash that was not sorted properly, once the city stopped recycling glass and plastics on Monday. Critics say that policy raises the prospect of improperly packed garbage left to decay on steamy summer streets. B1

Executive for Memorial Project
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is set to put a Merrill Lynch executive, Anita F. Contini, in charge of efforts to create a memorial to the victims of Sept. 11. B1

Mayor to Join Gay Parade
Mayor Bloomberg will continue the mayoral practice of joining the gay pride parade, which is on Sunday, after it has passed St. Patrick's Cathedral, where protesters sometimes vigorously display opposition to church teaching on homosexuality. B1

Rent Increase Approved
The City Rent Guidelines Board voted to raise rents in rent-stabilized apartments 2 percent on one-year leases and 4 percent on two-year leases during a raucous meeting. B2

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-40

ESCAPES F1-18

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES C15

John Alec Entwistle
The bass player for the British rock group the Who was 57. The cause was thought to be a heart attack. C15

Jay Berwanger
The first winner of the Heisman Trophy, in 1935, was 88. C15

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

WorldCom's Political Fallout
The financial meltdown of WorldCom left President Bush and the Republicans struggling to limit the political risk from what strategists in both parties said could be a shift in the way voters view business and the economy. The president plans to give a major speech on corporate responsibility next month, aides said. A1

Investigators are said not to be finding records supporting the decisions that shifted billions of dollars in expenses to increase profits. C1

As it moves to lay off thousands of employees to cut costs, WorldCom also faces an exodus of seasoned managers needed to help it survive. C1

Worldcom's $3.8 billion exaggeration of profits represents yet another staggering audit failure by the company's longtime accountant, Arthur Andersen, experts said. C1

Pension funds are reporting big losses on WorldCom investments. C1

Bankers Charged in Enron Case
Federal prosecutors filed a criminal complaint against three British bankers, accusing them of defrauding their employer, National Westminster Bank, of $7.3 million in dealings with an Enron-related partnership. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The wrong ruling on vouchers; WorldCom, WorldCon; a pool of swimmers.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E39
TV Listings E28
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VETO (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); IMMIGRATION (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AIDS & HIV (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CURFEW (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); EPIDEMICS (72%); IMMUNITY (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); HATE CRIME (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); RELIGION (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (68%); JUDGES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (62%); TUITION FEES (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); ARMED FORCES (54%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (54%); MEDICARE (51%); APPEALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFRICA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



622 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Show Balancing Act 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve Board officials decided at their policy meeting on May 7 that the economic recovery had slowed and that its future was subject to a "marked degree of uncertainty," minutes of the meeting showed today.
 The 10 members of the Fed's Open Market Committee voted unanimously to leave its benchmark bank lending rate unchanged at 1.75 percent because although "the economic recovery was clearly continuing, its rate of advance had moderated considerably," the minutes said. 
 "While the longer-term outlook for a strengthening economy remained favorable, a firming of policy at this time would be premature and would incur an undue risk to a healthy expansion," the minutes added. 
At their most recent meeting, on Tuesday and Wednesday, the members of the committee again left interest rates unchanged. 
In May, committee members recognized that maintaining the benchmark interest rate at a 40-year low "was inconsistent" with their goal of containing inflation over time. 
"However, current inflation pressures were subdued," the minutes said, "and were expected to remain so for a considerable period, thereby providing adequate opportunity to evaluate ongoing developments and tighten policy as needed later." 
Members agreed that the risks to the economy were balanced between slower growth and lower inflation. 
Looking forward, the committee questioned whether consumer demand would strengthen. It also said it expected a "sluggish and delayed upturn" in business investment. Still, the minutes said, "a pause in the expansion was not an unusual development during the early stages of a cyclical recovery, and the members generally viewed a pickup in growth as a reasonable expectation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (76%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



623 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: THE SUPREME COURT: THE REACTION; 
Voucher Backers See Opening for a Wider Agenda

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, June 27 

 BODY:
In response to the Supreme Court's endorsement of this city's voucher program, legislators around the country are likely to begin exploring ways of spending money previously reserved for public education. The measures they draft, if passed, would transform the way many families choose the schools their children attend.
 Advocates of vouchers said the ruling supplied a jolt of energy to their long efforts to create taxpayer-financed voucher programs modeled on those in Cleveland, Milwaukee and Florida, which are generally meant for low-income students in failing public schools. 
 Besides Florida, where a pilot program that has served fewer than 100 students is expected to grow exponentially, Colorado, New Mexico, Pennsylvania and Texas are among the states where legislators have already debated similar measures and where such programs could now have an enhanced shot at passage. 
But advocates and opponents alike also described the court's decision as providing the potential legal underpinning for the pursuit of a far more ambitious agenda that has been pursued by conservatives for generations: legislation that would permit all families in a particular state -- affluent and middle class, as well as poor -- to spend that state's per-pupil education expenditure on the private, public or religious school of their choice.
"It's now a wide open playing field for school vouchers in all these states," said Robert C. Enlow, a vice president of the Milton and Rose D. Friedman Foundation in Indianapolis, which has sought the expansion of vouchers. "A lot of the political resistance has been that the legislators don't believe it's legal. Now, thankfully, we'll no longer hear that."
At the least, supporters of vouchers expressed confidence today that future programs, emboldened by the court's decision, will be grander in scope and expense than the program here. 
In the current school year, Ohio has awarded publicly financed vouchers, worth as much as $2,250 each, to 4,456 Cleveland students in kindergarten through eighth grade, mostly from families living at or below the poverty level. Each is permitted to attend one of 50 private schools that has agreed to accept the vouchers. 
Nearly all of those participating schools are affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church or other religious groups, not only because the great majority of Ohio private schools are religiously affiliated but also because the vouchers are considered so modest that only the poorest private schools have agreed to accept them. 
In a voucher program in Milwaukee, where the vouchers are worth more than $5,000 each, a third of the 10,000 participants are enrolled in nonreligious private schools.
The expansion of voucher programs to a national scale could, as voucher advocates have long predicted, subject the nation's public school systems to the forces of the free market, meaning they would have to improve or face the loss of their students and the taxpayer money that comes with them.
Today's decision could also create opportunities for educational entrepreneurs to create hundreds of private schools to meet the anticipated demand.
Milton Friedman, the University of Chicago economist who first imagined a national voucher movement almost a half-century ago, said in an interview today that the decision could have an impact on education financing comparable to that of the G.I. Bill, which permitted hundreds of thousands of World War II veterans to attend colleges that they might not have otherwise been able to afford.
Still, the ruling is expected to touch off a series of fierce political skirmishes in individual states, which often supply more money for public education than federal or local governments. Already, the coalition that has traditionally supported vouchers -- conservative politicians, joined by some black and Hispanic families -- is preparing to square off against the nation's teachers' unions and others who contend that vouchers will drain urban public schools of their resources.
"Vouchers are bad education policy, and we will continue to fight efforts to introduce them into public education," said Sandra Feldman, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, the nation's second-largest teachers union, in a statement. 
Still, Ms. Feldman acknowledged that the spread of voucher programs was probably inevitable, and that the union would seek to ensure that those private schools that accept voucher students were held to the same measures of accountability, like standardized tests, as public schools.
The political barriers remain formidable for the voucher movement. A majority of respondents in some opinion polls have suggested that they oppose vouchers, and more than half the state legislatures have considered but failed to pass voucher measures. 
Ultimately, the debates in each state are expected to turn on questions that have yet to be answered. Among them are whether legislators are willing to spend enough money on vouchers to make them appealing to most private schools; whether those private schools have the capacity to enroll a critical mass of public school students; and whether students in existing voucher programs outperform similar students in public schools, a point on which the research has been inconclusive.
Despite the apparent sweep of today's decision, some legal scholars questioned whether it could be applied to a voucher program that was not established in response to an educational emergency, which, in Cleveland's case, was the takeover of the failing city system by the state in 1995.
But such issues were of little concern today to the reassured parents of the more than 4,000 Cleveland children who received vouchers this past school year.
"I had faith," said Tina Kuntz, 37, whose three daughters -- 8-year-old twins and a 9-year-old -- attend St. Vincent DePaul School in the West Park neighborhood. "I knew in my heart this was going to work out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sister Caroline Kocur, of St. Vincent DePaul School in Cleveland. (David Maxwell for The New York Times); Roberta Kitchen, right, and Rosa-Linda Demore-Brown, executive director of Cleveland Parents for School Choice, celebrated the voucher ruling. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIGION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (58%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) OHIO, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) CLEVELAND (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



624 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Internet: Modem Media Plans Job Cuts 

BYLINE:  NYT (Compiled by Gary Bradford)

 BODY:
 Modem Media, an interactive services agency based in Norwalk, Conn., said yesterday that it would close offices in Hong Kong, Munich and Toronto and lay off employees in most of its other offices. 
Modem executives cited reductions in expected revenue as the reason for the cutbacks. The agency will dismiss 90 employees, or 22.5 percent of its total staff of 400. Modem will continue to operate offices in London, San Francisco and Sao Paulo, Brazil, in addition to the Norwalk headquarters, but it will reduce its office space in London and Norwalk. The executives said they expected pretax charges of $12 million in connection with the cutbacks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

ORGANIZATION: MODEM MEDIA INC (MMPT) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (85%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



625 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Taiwan: Rates Lowered 

BYLINE:  By Keith Bradsher (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Fighting to stop an appreciation of the Taiwan dollar that threatens to erode the competitiveness of Taiwan's exports, the central bank lowered all three interest rates that it controls by a quarter of a percentage point. Despite what traders describe as huge daily interventions by the central bank, the Taiwan dollar has been inching up against the United States dollar. Keith Bradsher (NYT)



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (88%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (97%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (85%) TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



626 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Jersey City: Indictment In Money Scheme 

BYLINE:  By Ronald Smothers (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
A bank employee was indicted yesterday for her part in a black-market currency exchange operation in Brazil that involved more than $500 million, the authorities said. 
The employee, Maria Carolina Nolasco, 44, of Jersey City, worked at the Valley National Bank. She is accused of tax evasion and operating an illegal money-transferring operation that transmitted millions of dollars to Brazil in a scheme to evade United States and Brazilian regulations. Prosecutors said Ms. Nolasco, acting without bank permission, received $1.2 million over a three year period from the Brazilian currency-transfer businesses. Ronald Smothers (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); TAX FRAUD (88%); TAX LAW (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%) CURRENCY; TAX EVASION 

ORGANIZATION: VALLEY NATIONAL BANK 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; NOLASCO, MARIA CAROLINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (91%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



627 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Motorola Says It Will Cut Another 7,000 Jobs 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 27 

 BODY:
Motorola said today that it would cut another 7,000 jobs, or 7 percent of its work force, and incur $3.5 billion in charges in a cost-cutting move that virtually completes its two-year revamping.
 Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Ill., said it expected to return to operating profitability in the second half of the year. 
 The company has already reduced its work force to about 100,000 from a peak of 150,000 employees in August 2000. The latest cut will leave its work force at about 93,000, a spokesman, Scott Wyman, said. The reductions will begin in July and continue into 2003, he said. 
The chief executive, Christopher B. Galvin, said, "This comprehensive restructuring purposefully returns Motorola to approximately its mid-1990's size, the era prior to the excesses of the telecom and dot-com booms."
Motorola said the charges associated with its latest revamping would be about $3.5 billion, with about 90 percent expected to occur in the current quarter and the rest in the second half of the year. Its shares rose 41 cents to close at $14.45.
The company said the new cuts would affect all business segments and corporate headquarters, and were part of an effort to reduce expenses in several areas, including manufacturing, sales and research and development.
About 3,000 job cuts will come from the wireless infrastructure business, Mr. Wyman said. Wireless is Motorola's third-largest business, behind cellphones and semiconductors, with most of its operations in North America.
The company declined to discuss which regions of the United States would be affected by the layoffs. 
About $1.9 billion of the charges are tied to the layoffs and a plan to write down some of Motorola's semiconductor plants to fair market value, the company said. Another $1.1 billion is tied to a plan to reduce market valuations of investments and other assets, executives said.
The company also repeated its second-quarter earnings projection, saying it expects to meet or do slightly better than a loss of 4 cents a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC (MOT) 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%) SIC3663 RADIO & TV COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



628 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Arts Organizer Said to Be Choice To Oversee 9/11 Memorial Effort 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Moving to fill what will be one of the most scrutinized jobs in the rebuilding of downtown, the agency in charge of the effort is preparing to appoint a Merrill Lynch executive who is a longtime organizer of downtown cultural events to oversee the creation of a memorial to the victims of the Sept. 11 attack, according to officials involved in the effort.
 The executive, Anita F. Contini, is a first vice president for global sponsorships and client events marketing at Merrill Lynch and the former artistic director of the arts and events program at the World Financial Center. It is expected that the job will be offered to her as early as next week, the officials said. 
 As director of the memorial process for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, Ms. Contini, if she accepts the job, will be at the center of what has already proven to be the most visible and contentious part of the rebuilding process. She will also be the corporation's main contact with cultural institutions, overseeing efforts to bring museums and performing arts organizations downtown, and will be responsible for raising money from corporations and individuals for the memorial. 
An intense spotlight will be focused on the memorial, which is expected by city officials to attract several million visitors a year, and on the artistic programs associated with it. Because of this, the effects of the appointment are likely to influence the culture and economy of Lower Manhattan -- and perhaps the entire city -- for decades to come.
How much influence Ms. Contini, who is 55, will have over the ultimate decisions made about the memorial is uncertain. The amount of land to be devoted to the memorial will be decided by the urban planners hired to design the site and the men who head the development corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, most of whom are longtime allies of Gov. George E. Pataki.
In addition, the development corporation's board will have a role in approving an architect and a design for the memorial.
But the appointment of someone with close ties to the New York City arts community signals that the development corporation wants to associate the memorial, and perhaps a museum and arts center, with efforts to get cultural institutions to move downtown. 
Ms. Contini did not respond to phone calls yesterday. Matthew Higgins, a spokesman for the development corporation, would not discuss whether Ms. Contini was under consideration for the job. "Several extremely qualified candidates are being considered for the position," he said, "and no final decision has been made."
But other officials involved in the rebuilding said that an offer was likely to be extended soon, so that Ms. Contini, if she accepts the job, can meet with members of the development corporation's family advisory council before July 20, when a large town hall meeting on the rebuilding and the plans for a memorial is scheduled to take place at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
As overseer of the memorial process, Ms. Contini will be responsible for soliciting and integrating input from a host of groups with an interest in the memorial, including the family members of the victims, survivors of the attack, rescue and recovery workers, downtown residents, business owners, city and state officials and arts and civic organizations.
A resident of downtown Manhattan for more than two decades, Ms. Contini is familiar with the area around the former World Trade Center. In 1973, she founded Creative Time, a nonprofit arts organization whose projects included "Art on the Beach," a program of performances and art exhibits on the sandy, empty landfill that is now Battery Park City. 
In 1986, Ms. Contini went to work for Olympia & York, the owners of the newly built World Financial Center, where she oversaw the center's cultural programs, a mixture of art exhibits and often quirky performances by dance troupes and musicians from around the world. Passers-by in the center's Winter Garden atrium soon became used to seeing performances by Asian drummers dressed like Sumo wrestlers and hearing electronic music filtering down from the atrium's palm trees. 
"She is really one of the great entrepreneurs of the city," said William H. Luers, a former president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a former ambassador to Czechoslovakia, who worked with Ms. Contini on a program featuring Czech art at the World Financial Center. "There are a lot of people in the arts world who have an agenda. She really doesn't have one except to do a good job."
Since 1999, Ms. Contini has managed Merrill Lynch's sponsorship and events programs, overseeing a staff of 50 people and guiding Merrill into the sponsorship of such events as the Matisse Picasso exhibit coming to the Museum of Modern Art next year, the Chelsea Flower Show at the Royal Horticultural Society in London, and the centennial exhibit of the Nobel Prize, a traveling exhibition. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a Merrill Lynch executive, Anita F. Contini, who is expected to be appointed to oversee the development of a World Trade Center memorial, misstated her age. She is 58, not 55.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anita Contini (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); RELOCATIONS (79%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HIJACKING (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); EVENT MARKETING (72%); PHILANTHROPY (66%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; PHILANTHROPY; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

PERSON: CONTINI, ANITA F; WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



629 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: THE EXECUTIVES; 
Bonuses Meant to Retain Talent Now Risk Outrage

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
As it moves to lay off thousands of employees to cut costs, WorldCom is also facing the conflicting problem of avoiding an exodus of experienced senior executives needed to help it survive.
 The management challenge is heightened by the looming expiration of a retention program that paid 558 top executives roughly $237 million in bonuses two years ago -- an average of nearly $425,000 -- to keep them from leaving the company during a period that will end on July 30. Some of the executives received bonuses of well over $1 million that are supposed to be returned if they leave before then. But once the deadline has passed, executive recruiters say that all bets are off. 
 "WorldCom had a fairly loyal group of senior executives, but they really got blindsided and many are angry," said Paul Unger, managing director of the telecommunications and technology practice in the McLean, Va., office of the recruiting firm Christian & Timbers.
If John W. Sidgmore, WorldCom's recently named chief executive, institutes a new retention program to keep top managers, he is likely to face a public outcry for paying bonuses to relatively wealthy executives at a time thousands of workers are being laid off. Enron was condemned by employees and politicians for paying as much as $100 million in retention bonuses to managers and traders shortly before filing for bankruptcy even as its laid-off workers were receiving two weeks' pay.
The criticism is expected to be especially sharp when these big payouts are cited in contrast to severance payments to the 17,000 workers whom WorldCom is letting go.
The severance payment terms have not yet been announced, but the company -- which is trying to induce lenders to grant it new credit lines -- may have little freedom to be generous.
Because of provisions in the retention program, WorldCom also faces a decision about whether to seek repayments from those fired or forced to retire before the deadline. Both Bernard J. Ebbers, who resigned as chief executive at the end of April, and Scott D. Sullivan, the chief financial officer who was fired on Tuesday, received $10 million retention bonuses in 2000 that the company has a right to reclaim, according to Mr. Ebbers's own testimony in a lawsuit last fall.
His severance package provides him with $1.5 million annually for life, use of a company plane for 30 hours a year and medical and life insurance, according to a WorldCom filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission last month. It obligates him to be available as a consultant for five years but makes no mention of the $10 million bonus. Mr. Ebbers could not be reached for comment yesterday.
WorldCom has not disclosed any financial arrangements with Mr. Sullivan, who also could not be reached. His lawyer, Andrew J. Graham, declined to comment.
Bradford Burns, a spokesman for WorldCom, said the company had no comment on future retention programs or any claim it might have for repayment of the bonuses of executives who had left.
Keeping other top executives will undoubtedly be a great challenge. Recruiters say that senior financial executives at WorldCom may suffer from the taint of the accounting scandal disclosed on Tuesday. That disclosure came on top of a much broader inquiry into WorldCom's accounting practices that the S.E.C. opened earlier this year.
But operating, marketing and technology executives may wind up with lucrative offers, and many now seem ready to leave.
"We called one guy Friday and got put off with a standing-tall, sticking-it-out speech," an executive recruiter said. "After the announcement, he called back on his knees."
The biggest restraint on the restless executives are continued layoffs and lack of jobs in the devastated telecommunications industry. But recruiters say WorldCom executives have recently become more open to offers in other information technology industries and at consulting or marketing companies that serve governments or large businesses. 
In 2000, when the original retention package was put together, WorldCom had to figure out how big a package of stock and cash bonuses would be required to keep executives from jumping to dot-coms and other start-up ventures that were then thriving, according to Clare H. Draper IV, an employment law specialist at the law firm of Alston & Bird in Atlanta. 
WorldCom, now flirting with bankruptcy, faces the much more complex job today of figuring out how much to offer, how to come up with the money and how to persuade managers that they can count on receiving any portion that is deferred. In most states, employees are unsecured creditors whose claims are among the last paid in bankruptcy. That is likely to discourage most from accepting a plan that does not provide a substantial bonus upfront or set aside cash in a trust fund that could be insulated from bankruptcy claims.
"Sidgmore will have to give out retention bonuses that in some cases could be in the $2 million to $3 million range, and he doesn't have the cash to do it," said Alan Neely, global leader of Korn/Ferry International's communications and convergence recruiting practice in Atlanta. "That's what's so harrowing about his position."
Whatever Mr. Sidgmore does, he is likely to opt for a plan that is more formal than the one his predecessor, Mr. Ebbers, instituted when WorldCom's top management was expecting to merge with Sprint and continue growing. The Ebbers plan consisted of bonus payments plus stock options that are now worthless.
That plan was adopted by the compensation and stock option committee of WorldCom's board in April 2000 but never formally approved by the full board, according to testimony and documents submitted in a lawsuit in the United States District Court in Alexandria, Va., last fall.
It gave Mr. Ebbers latitude to determine who was in the plan and what they would be offered. 
In his testimony, Mr. Ebbers said the plan gave WorldCom the right to demand repayment from any executive who failed to complete the two-year retention period, even those who were laid off or who died. Mr. Ebbers decided not to pursue repayment from executives who were laid off early in 2001, when WorldCom cut 6,000 jobs.
But the company has successfully pursued repayment from those who left for other jobs, even in cases where their responsibilities had been cut back to the point that the executives thought WorldCom did not really want to keep them. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the beginning of an article in Business Day yesterday about WorldCom's need to retain crucial executives was omitted in some copies. The article is repeated today on Page C3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (88%); DISMISSALS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MISAPPROPRIATION (74%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); LAWYERS (69%); LITIGATION (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); CTPARTNERS EXECUTIVE SEARCH INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); CTP (NYSE MKT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



630 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: THE HOMETOWN; 
In Hometown Of WorldCom, Loss and Shock

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON 

DATELINE: CLINTON, Miss., June 27 

 BODY:
This city is big enough to hold the country's second-largest long-distance carrier, and small enough that many outsiders do not know this.
 When the TV reporters stand with their backs to the sprawling glass-and-steel WorldCom headquarters, their viewers would never guess that the cameras are mounted in a Pizza Hut parking lot. 
 People here in the Jackson area bought WorldCom stock not just because they thought it was a good stock, but also because it put a Mississippi company in their portfolios, the biggest business story in the state since casinos hit the Gulf Coast. And they stuck with the company, even when its fortunes began plummeting. 
"Lots of people in this town and area had large holdings, and kept holding," said Linda Thompson, a state administrative law judge in Jackson. "Because we believed the company was a good company with huge numbers of assets, and when things turned around it would turn around, and not just survive, but prevail. I don't think anybody in this city sold any. I think we're all just sitting around, stunned." 
Shares that were worth $64.50 each in 1999 would barely buy the postage to mail one off today after the company admitted that it had failed to record $3.8 billion in expenses properly. No one is selling because there is nothing to sell. They are waiting. So are 2,000 Mississippi employees who could be among the 17,000 people to be laid off, starting Friday. Globally, WorldCom employs more than 80,000, and has said the job cuts will be spread evenly. 
"Everyone's disappointed and shocked," said Trey Palmer, 31, who works in the SkyTel paging unit of the company. "I would hope the executives would hold themselves to a higher standard of behavior. This is beyond the pale."
Mr. Palmer said he did not know whether he would be laid off. "At this point, honestly, I'd look at it with relief," he said.
Clinton has few apparent options for employing displaced workers. A Nissan plant, to be completed in 2003, is hiring, but those jobs are not likely to match the skills of telecommunications workers.
Even the hockey team's future is uncertain. The Jackson Bandits anticipated a new arena, to be built by the WorldCom founder, Bernard J. Ebbers. 
"Tomorrow afternoon, I'm expecting a call on the fate of the Bandits," said Malcolm White, a team sponsor and owner of Hal and Mal's, a popular downtown Jackson restaurant. He rolled his eyes at the hockey team's name; earlier that day, a customer asked him what he thought about the "World-Con" affair. "Everybody's disturbed, of course," he said. "But you've got to keep a sense of humor."
Mr. Ebbers is Bernie to everyone here, regardless of whether they have met. His storied rise from a hotel desk clerk and basketball coach became legend, repeated in lengthy business profiles that hit all the folk-hero milestones: The milk route in Canada, his birthplace; the basketball scholarship to Mississippi College in Clinton; sketching the plans for the original company on a napkin in a Days Inn near Hattiesburg; the waitress overhearing and picking the name, Long-Distance Discount Service. The pickup, the leather vests, the boots, the farm. 
"I'm not an engineer by training; I'm not an accountant by training -- all those types of specialized skills," Mr. Ebbers said in 1998. "My job is to bring people in who do have those specific skills and then rely on them. I'm the coach. I'm not the point guard who shoots the ball."
Mr. Ebbers has been unreachable for comment in recent days. In Brookhaven, about an hour's drive south of Jackson, where Mr. Ebbers has lived for years, his neighbors borrowed money from banks to buy stock.
"He was a regular guy," said Rosemary Aultman, the mayor of Clinton, north of Jackson. 
"He was fun to watch," said the mayor, a stockholder herself. "He just had a real sense of place. He built it with Mississippians." 
The mayor was optimistic that the city would survive any worst-case situations at WorldCom. Besides the sprawling WorldCom headquarters, the other major force in this bedroom community of 23,000 people is Mississippi College.
"There's cause for concern, no doubt about it," she said. "But our city is very secure, very solid."
Mr. Ebbers stepped down in April, owing WorldCom $408 million in loans to cover his investments.
"I held onto mine," said Al Sage, a lobbyist from Jackson. "Because I figured one day Bernie was going to pull it out. We all figured he was magic, because he kept doing it."
"It has wiped out a lot of people in Brookhaven who were millionaires many times over and aren't anymore," said Jim McKennon, a financial adviser with American Express Financial Advisors in Brookhaven. "People put up $25,000 and Bernie gave them stock. It's going to hurt the economy of Brookhaven. I know of several people who have had to come up with a hundred thousand to meet a margin call."
Mr. Ebbers retains strong supporters, among them former Gov. Bill Waller, a Jackson lawyer, who believes the investigations of its accounting practices will show no criminal wrongdoing. "This is a knee-jerk reaction," Mr. Waller said. "I don't think it's a crime. I think it's an error in accounting terminology. I don't think Bernie Ebbers is capable of committing any criminal wrong. It's against his personal code and creed."
Most others interviewed here were less optimistic of innocence throughout the firm. "I talked to my stockbroker today, and the mood was, 'Somebody better be sitting in jail for this,' " Mrs. Thompson said. It is a constant topic of discussion, she said. " 'Well how you doing today?' 'Well, I'd be doing better if it weren't for that blankety-blank WorldCom.' " 
At least one profession in town might, indeed, pick up business. "I got some calls from some New York lawyers to see if I wanted to do some work on a case," said Bobby Moak, a lawyer and state representative, sitting down to lunch at Hal and Mal's. "That's all I should say now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Malcolm White hopes that WorldCom's troubles will not also hurt his restaurant. (Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg. C1); At Hal and Mal's, a popular restaurant in downtown Jackson, Miss., WorldCom's problems are a major topic of conversation. WorldCom employs about 2,000 people in the state and some are expected to lose their jobs. (Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); ETHICS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); JUDGES (54%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (54%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); PIZZA HUT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLDCOM INC 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CLINTON (MISS); JACKSON (MISS); MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



631 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Report on Pension Fund Is McCall's Response to Cuomo 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 27 

 BODY:
After several attacks from his rival in the Democratic primary for governor, the state comptroller, H. Carl McCall, released an annual report on the state's pension fund today that showed it grew more over the last fiscal year than other large funds.
 Mr. McCall's main competitor for the nomination, Andrew M. Cuomo, has criticized his management of the retirement fund, charging the comptroller should have avoided enormous losses on investments in fallen companies like WorldCom, Enron, Global Crossings and Tyco. The Cuomo camp had accused Mr. McCall of delaying the release of the report because it was embarrassing. 
 But the report says the $112 billion common retirement fund grew by 2.8 percent, mostly on the strength of its real estate investments, domestic stocks and bonds, which offset losses in private ventures and international stocks. That modest growth was a better performance than the four other largest funds in the country, officials said. "We took a bath like everyone else," said Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the comptroller. "It was just a shorter bath."
The McCall camp called Mr. Cuomo's other criticisms absurd. They pointed out that most institutional investors were hoodwinked by WorldCom and Enron with deceptive accounting.
As the sniping between Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo continued today, the chairman of the state Democratic Party said he wanted to refocus the Democrats' fire on Gov. George E. Pataki, a popular Republican seeking a third term.
To that end, the chairman, Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., said he would begin raising money immediately for the party committee's coordinated criticism of Mr. Pataki and other Republican candidates. The contribution limits for state party committees are higher than for individual candidates. By law, the party cannot favor one candidate in a primary, but it can begin running ads against the incumbent governor.
This is the first time in recent history that the party has kicked off its coordinated campaign before the primary. Despite the sniping, both Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo pledged today to help raise money for the effort, starting with a fund-raiser at Tavern on the Green on July 22.
Mr. Farrell said the party would attack Governor Pataki on two fronts: education and the upstate economy. He said the party would publicize the governor's decision to fight a court ruling that would have compelled the state to spend more money on educating urban students. It would also seek to blame Mr. Pataki for the slow economic growth outside New York City. "We are going after the governor specifically at this point," he said.
Sandy Treadwell, the chairman of the state Republican Party, poked fun at the coming Democratic fund-raiser. Officials in the Republican Party and the Pataki campaign have been happy to watch Mr. Cuomo, the former federal housing secretary, and Mr. McCall do battle. "Now they are going to break bread at a unity dinner?" Mr. Treadwell asked. "My guess is that dinner could quickly become a massive food fight."
Neither Democratic candidate eased up on their barbs today. Mr. Cuomo's aides said Mr. McCall was not being honest with the public because he did not release figures for the last three months, during which the $112 billion fund lost at least $300 million on WorldCom.
They also criticized Mr. McCall for continuing to employ Alliance Capital, a well-known money manager that has handled part of the pension since the early 1980's. Last fall, Alliance was one of the last major equity managers to dump Enron stock and some of its former executives had ties to the energy giant.
Pension officials in Florida canceled a contract with Alliance after the Enron fall, but Mr. McCall did not. He has argued the company had consistently produced big profits for the retirement fund over 20 years. The Cuomo camp, however, suggested today that Mr. McCall stood by Alliance because its executives contributed to his campaign.
Steven Greenberg, Mr. McCall's spokesman, accused Mr. Cuomo of "making insidious, inaccurate personal attacks." He said the Cuomo camp had distorted the facts about Alliance, suggesting they were holding WorldCom stock for the state, while ignoring the company's long record of profits for the state.
The annual report showed the New York Common Retirement Fund posted a one-year growth of 2.8 percent, while the only bigger fund -- the California Public Employees' Retirement System -- grew by 1.5 percent. The New York City pension funds posted a 1.8 percent growth. The California teachers fund grew by 0.8 percent and the Florida fund grew by 2.5 percent.
Asked if the Democratic candidates' rough campaigning would hurt the party, Mr. Farrell said it was to be expected in a primary, adding, "When I go to a boxing match, I expect to see someone get punched." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); BONDS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



632 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Full Pockets, Big City

BYLINE:  By ELVIS MITCHELL 

 BODY:
It could be said that the remake of Frank Capra's "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town," starring Adam Sandler, is redundant, since the actor has been remaking Capraesque movies for most of his career. Mr. Sandler's films are always about the arrogant getting a deserved comeuppance at the hands of humbler types, but this is the first time he seems a little smug himself. "Mr. Deeds" has him rehashing a role he has performed so many times before he could be doing this picture in his sleep. The result is likely to be that he'll put audiences to sleep, especially those he won over with "Happy Gilmore" and "The Wedding Singer." Here, Mr. Sandler speaks so slowly that he sounds like a dad trying to calm an overstimulated child at bedtime. 
 As in Capra's original 1936 classic, Longfellow Deeds still lives in Mandrake Falls, is an aspiring greeting-card poet and has no patience for pretension. And once again, he is left a fortune by a distant relative: adjusted for inflation, the amount is $40 billion instead of $20 million. He's taken to New York, where he'll presumably be enticed by the city. But Mr. Sandler's Longfellow Deeds is too austere ever to be tempted by Manhattan's bright lights. This nouveau Deeds has one different wrinkle: rather than being a laid-back sharpie who's constantly reading others, he has a pathological compulsion to throw a punch at anybody who's being rude. Instead of Capra-corn, this is Capra-cuffs. 
 The fissures of anger in Sandler comedies are often where the laughs come from: Mr. Sandler possesses a crazy streak of rage that puts us in mind not of Gary Cooper's laconic poet but of the angry farmer in the original "Mr. Deeds" who barges into the newly rich hick's grand home with a shotgun, threatening him for wasting money. ("Mr. Deeds" offers the requisite scene of Mr. Sandler battering a hapless opponent, though this time it's with tennis balls rather than golf balls or hockey pucks.)
"Mr. Deeds" is mostly terrible, a shambles of a comedy that looks as if it was shot by a tabloid news crew. Mr. Sandler may be bored with the sloppy violent-slapstick comedies that, in real life, have earned him almost as much money as Longfellow Deeds. (There are so many of the 70's and 80's pop-music classics that Mr. Sandler loves -- the songs in his movies resemble lite-FM programming -- that you wonder if $40 billion was spent on music clearance alone.)
Winona Ryder plays Babe Bennett, the reporter who tricks Deeds into thinking she's a small-town girl in an effort to keep her job. Babe secretly films Deeds's urban misadventures, and they run on the tabloid show "Inside Access," anchored by her abundantly sleazy boss Mac McGrath (Jared Harris). 
Deeds is treated like a rube, and so is the viewer. For those of us who weren't big fans of Capra's slightly condescending original in the first place, which had almost as many speeches as a season of C-Span, the possibility of Mr. Sandler and the director Steven Brill taking some of the hot air out of the original was excitingly sacrilegious. (If they had tried to remake Capra's "It Happened One Night," that would have been a reason for outrage.) But it's as if the remake of "Mr. Deeds" was limited to recasting it as a Sandler vehicle; this is a scandalously lazy movie.
To be sure, there are the usual positive touches, like performances by well-known character actors willing to add some tarnish to their images. Steve Buscemi drops in for another Sandler film bit part. He's joined by John Turturro, who plays Deeds's floridly accented Spanish butler with a penchant for appearing out of nowhere. "You underestimated my sneakiness," he says through a crooked grin.
Gazing at the collection of big-deal cameos that a Sandler movie attracts is, by now, like watching stars show up for minimum-wage duty on a Woody Allen movie. One of the walk-ons is the formerly high-voltage John McEnroe, who affords the film an opportunity for an anger-management joke when he shows up to congratulate Deeds for beating up a bunch of New York stuffed shirts. The Grey Poupon upturned noses of these stereotypes would have been a tired cliche even in the 30's when the original "Mr. Deeds" was released. 
And this hackneyed approach explains why the current version is doddering, a victim of iron-deficient blood. Its visual clumsiness is striking. I don't think anyone ever went to an Adam Sandler comedy expecting to come out whistling the sets, but the movie has the musty, ersatz quality of one of those made-by-committee James Belushi comedies of the late 80's, where the greed-is-good ethos had to be rejected by the end to teach a valuable lesson. In any case, Capra's notebook has already been copied to better effect by the Coen brothers in their decent-bumpkin movie "The Hudsucker Proxy." It also featured Peter Gallagher, who appears in "Deeds" as Chuck Cedar, a conniving executive out to bilk the poet out of his fortune. 
The movie, which opens nationwide today, provides a wealth of product placement, too, with scenes in which it extols the down-home virtues of places like Wendy's. Yet the film does grind a chuckle out of the fast-food chain. Cedar's posh right-hand man, Cecil Anderson (Erick Avari), says dreamily of a Wendy's Frosty, "I tried to make one at home, but it wasn't the same." That's what this remake of "Mr. Deeds" really is: a failed attempt to reconjure a contrived simple pleasure.
"Mr. Deeds" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) for strong language, mild sexual humor and a slew of slapstick fistfights.

MR. DEEDS

Directed by Steven Brill; written by Tim Herlihy, adapted from "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town" directed by Frank Capra and written by Robert Riskin, based on a story by Clarence Budington Kelland; director of photography, Peter Lyons Collister; edited by Jeff Gourson; music by Teddy Castellucci; production designer, Perry Andelin Blake; produced by Sid Ganis and Jack Giarraputo; released by Columbia Pictures and New Line Cinema. Running time: 91 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Adam Sandler (Longfellow Deeds), Winona Ryder (Babe Bennett), Peter Gallagher (Chuck Cedar), Jared Harris (Mac McGrath), Allen Covert (Marty), Erick Avari (Cecil Anderson), John Turturro (Emilio Lopez) and Steve Buscemi (Crazy Eyes).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adam Sandler stars as Longfellow Deeds in "Mr. Deeds," Steven Brill's remake of the Frank Capra movie. (Jon Farmer/Columbia Pictures)(pg. E1); Adam Sandler has a fortune and Winona Ryder has an angle in a remake of Frank Capra's "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town." (Jon Farmer/Columbia Pictures)(pg. E14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS (72%); POP & ROCK (69%); SHOOTINGS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (92%) MITCHELL, ELVIS; BRILL, STEVEN; SANDLER, ADAM; RYDER, WINONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: MR DEEDS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



633 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Inquiry Said to Focus On Sell Order by Stewart
Prosecutors in the investigation of ImClone Systems are narrowing their focus to the apparent lack of documentation of the sell order that Ms. Stewart says she and her stockbroker, Peter Bacanovic, agreed on weeks before the sale took place, officials said.
 Merrill Lynch, where Mr. Bacanovic worked, has delivered documents to the Congressional committee that is investigating ImClone. But a Congressional spokesman would not say whether a sell order for Ms. Stewart's shares was among the files. Page C2. 

Martha Stewart's problems are starting to spook the marketers and agencies that buy time and space on and in the properties with her name. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C2.

Auditor Settles Tax Shelter Dispute
PricewaterhouseCoopers has agreed to pay a fine to the Internal Revenue Service for marketing tax shelters and then failing to comply with rules requiring it to keep a list of such shelters and the clients who used them. C2.

Motorola to Cut Another 7,000 Jobs
Motorola announced that it would cut another 7,000 jobs, or 7 percent of its work force, and incur $3.5 billion in charges in a cost-cutting move that virtually completes its two-year revamping. The company said the cuts were part of an effort to reduce expenses in several areas, including manufacturing. C13.

China Muscling Out U.S. in Asia
China is strengthening its economic presence across Asia, gobbling up foreign investment and chipping away at America's position as the region's economic engine. A1.

Senate Panel Passes Emissions Bill
The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee has approved a bill that would require substantial reductions in emissions by utility companies. The measure's prospects, however, remain uncertain. A18.

Blockbuster Suit Is Dismissed
A judge has thrown out an antitrust lawsuit against Blockbuster, ruling that the plaintiffs had failed to prove that Blockbuster had tried to drive them out of business. C3.

Chemical in Foods Worries Groups
At a meeting of scientists, two health and safety organizations said they still did not know why a potential carcinogen appears in staples like French fries, bread and potato chips, or whether it poses a risk. C14.

Russian Oil Remains Upbeat
Three Russian oil companies reported earnings for 2001. Though profits for most were lower, companies are pushing ahead with cost cuts, pipeline projects and improved investor relations. World Business, Section W.

Fiat Names a New Co-Chief
Fiat has named Gabriele Galateri di Genola e Suniglia, left, a close friend to members of the founding family, as its co-chief executive. The move fueled speculation that the company is preparing to exit the auto industry, its main business since 1899. The news came just 17 days after Paolo Cantarella, 57, resigned as chief executive. World Business, Section W.

Market Calms Its Jitters and Gains
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 149.81 points to 9,269.92. The Nasdaq composite index rose 29.87 points, to 1,459.20. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 17.11 points, to 990.64. C7.

Web Sites Sue to Stop Pop-Up Ads
Ten Web site publishers have filed suit against Gator, an online advertising and information storage company, to stop it from placing pop-up ads on their sites without permission. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,269.92 up 149.81Nasdaq composite -- 1,459.20 up 29.8710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.82% up 0.07The euro -- $0.9889 up 0.0033The dollar -- 119.27 yen down 0.52 Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income figures from November to April. Personal IncomeMay figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Motorola shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMISSIONS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); LITIGATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CARCINOGENS (61%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



634 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: House Raises Debt Ceiling And Avoids A Default 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
Under intense pressure to avert a government default that loomed for as early as this weekend, the House tonight narrowly approved an increase in the legal limit on the national debt, with Republicans swallowing their own reservations about the bill to pass it over the objections of Democrats.
 The legislation would raise the debt ceiling by $450 billion, to $6.4 trillion, and was identical to a measure adopted this month by the Democrat-controlled Senate. 
 President Bush had urged the House to approve the measure before the government bumped against the current debt limit on Friday, leaving the Treasury department to choose between financial gimmickry to keep the government operating and failing to meet obligations, including the payment of Social Security benefits.
The vote was 215 to 214. It came when financial markets, already skittish about the wave of corporate financial scandals, were starting to become nervous about the possibility of a partisan standoff calling into doubt the credit worthiness of the United States government. 
The increase approved today is expected to carry the government through this year. 
After running surpluses for four years, the government is again running a deficit -- probably in the range of $150 billion this year -- requiring it to borrow to pay for all its operations.
The debate allowed Democrats to reprise their argument that the tax cut pushed through Congress last year by President Bush was irresponsibly large, had killed hopes of paying down the national debt and left the government in perilous financial condition.
"Our fiscal house is in total disarray," said Representative Jim Turner, Democrat of Texas.
Democrats said they would support a smaller increase in the debt of $150 billion, enough to buy the government a few months before running into the limit. But they linked their willingness to vote even for the $150 billion increase to agreement by Republicans to negotiate a bipartisan deal to bring the federal budget back into balance by 2007. 
"Only a few months ago, Republicans were telling us we wouldn't need to touch the debt ceiling until 2008 and we might pay down so much debt that it would hurt the economy," said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas.
Suspicious that such a deal would require delaying or rescinding parts of last year's tax cut that are scheduled to phase in over the rest of the decade, Republicans rejected the Democratic approach.
Republicans said they had little choice but to pass the $450 billion increase, given the risk of a financial and political crisis if the government breached the debt limit.
But they angrily rebutted the Democratic assertions about the cause of the problem, saying the government's financial difficulties were the result of a decline in tax revenues caused by last year's recession and an increase in government spending, especially after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said spending increases supported by Democrats had more to do with the rising debt than did tax cuts.
"How can someone spend like a drunken sailor and then all of a sudden find religion when it comes to raising the debt limit?" Mr. Flake said. "This is like eating a big meal and then walking out on the bill."
The national debt is split roughly equally between debt held by the public, the more than $3 trillion in outstanding Treasury bonds and other securities, and the government's obligations to pay future Social Security benefits. While both parties had expressed support in recent years for paying off the public debt in the next decade, the part of the debt accounted for by Social Security will continue to rise.
The debate was odd from the perspective of both parties. Republicans, many of them fiscal conservatives loath to vote for an increase in the debt, found themselves advocating just such a step, and doing so in support of a bill written by the Democratic leadership of the Senate.
"I did not come here to increase the government's debt," said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana. But he said he would vote to do so to spare elderly constituents the fear that their Social Security checks would not come if the government ran into a financial crisis.
Democrats, many of whom routinely voted for debt-limit increases in the 1980's and 90's and criticized Republicans for opposing them, stood almost unanimously against the measure, saying it was asking future generations to pay for today's tax cuts and other obligations.
"This is a generational mugging," said Representative John Tanner, Democrat of Tennessee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); TERRORISM (64%); SCANDALS (53%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

PERSON: JEFF FLAKE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LLOYD DOGGETT (57%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



635 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: G-8 Adopts African Aid Package, With Strict Conditions 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CALGARY, Alberta, June 27 

 BODY:
President Bush and leaders of the major industrial countries ended their meeting today by committing billions of dollars in aid to African nations that successfully reform their economies and governments. But they offered only the vaguest assurances that they would dismantle the huge subsidies for their own farmers, which African leaders bitterly complain have undercut the ability of the poorest nations to compete in world markets.
 The agreement today, announced when the leaders of South Africa, Nigeria, Algeria and Senegal arrived for its formal adoption, might eventually provide more than $6 billion in yearly aid starting in 2006. But the program requires recipients to implement a wide range of reforms, in areas from government to education. 
 "We are satisfied with the commitment," said President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria. "There is nothing that is human that can be regarded as perfect." 
The aid to Africa would be part of a broader commitment of $12 billion in new international aid per year by 2006 that many nations made at a United Nations conference in March in Monterrey, Mexico. But today's endorsement at the summit meeting, in Kananaskis, ratified an approach to using the money that was drawn up in large part by African leaders, led by President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa. Called the New Partnership for Africa's Development, the program is intended to ease a crushing debt burden by relying more on grants than loans and by attracting foreign investment through economic liberalization.
But the plan is very controversial in Africa, where many view it as just a new way to impose Western-style economic theory on their countries. Moreover, many African leaders have expressed anger and dismay that just as they are improving Africa's economic competitiveness, the United States is greatly increasing subsidies for its biggest farmers.
In March, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations warned Mr. Bush and other leaders of the industrial world, "We can no longer continue to give with one hand and take with the other." Two months later, Mr. Bush signed into law a $51 billion increase in farm subsidies over the next six years. Mr. Bush made no public mention of those subsidies at the summit meeting, and Mr. Annan, clearly seeking to encourage the Western aid program, barely alluded to the issue. 
In a statement today, Mr. Bush and the other G-8 leaders -- from Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia -- pledged that they would reduce farm subsidies, but only after global trade negotiations. "We have committed ourselves to phasing out the agricultural subsidies that keep African goods out of our markets," said Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. "Free trade is what Africa needs."
In another major accord, Europe and Japan agreed to provide up to $10 billion for the dismantling of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons in Russia and, to a lesser degree, in other former Soviet states. That roughly matches the $10 billion the United States had already committed for similar programs.
Mr. Bush left the summit meeting this afternoon without commenting on its outcome. But earlier in the day, during a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Mr. Bush insisted that the leaders had largely agreed with his new approach to the Mideast. "The response has been very positive," he said, "and for that, I'm grateful." 
But he skirted the question of whether the others were willing to join him in pressing for the ouster of Yasir Arafat, words that only Mr. Blair came close to endorsing.
As the leaders left this afternoon, Prime Minister Jean Chretien, the host of the meeting, argued that his determination to hold what he called "a different kind of summit" had paid off. He said the decision to isolate the leaders at a mountain resort, where there was no chance that protesters could come within earshot, led to agreements on everything from improving airport security to the Africa accord.
President Jacques Chirac of France is to be the host of next year's talks, and the leaders announced that in 2006, Russia would be the host for the first time, cementing its integration into the group despite the comparatively small size of its economy.
Little of what the United States committed to Africa today is new; Mr. Bush announced an increase of 50 percent in overall foreign aid in March, to $15 billion by 2006, though it is not clear how much of that would go to Africa. This month, he reinforced the increase with a commitment of $200 million for education in Africa over the next five years, a doubling of the existing level. He also announced he would travel to Africa early next year.
Mr. Annan and the African leaders here are clearly skeptical that the developed nations would follow through with their promise of aid after so many failed efforts to help the continent. "By and large we know what needs doing," he said today. "But we have been much too slow to act on that knowledge." 
The leaders here said they were drawn to the Africans' commitment to liberalize markets and crack down on rampant corruption by reviewing, and enforcing, each others' performance.
There is no history of that kind of pressure among African states, but Mr. Obasanjo said today: "There is one thing that is different from all previous programs -- peer review. We will review ourselves in political, social and economic fields. If someone lags, we will give him a push or a sanction, whichever is necessary to get him to perform."
But increasingly, the problem is in establishing freer trade, something the West has promised but that has not materialized. The national incomes of most African states are overwhelmingly dependent on the price of commodities, which have fallen steadily in recent years. While the United States has relatively few formal barriers to importing African goods, it has retained sharp limits on imports of textiles, a major export good for the continent. Those protections were established mostly to preserve political support in American states where textile mills still exist. 
In today's accord, the developed nations also said they would find a way to help set up an African peacekeeping force by next year, part of an effort to address continued conflicts in Sudan, Congo and Angola. The force would be African, with the West contributing training.
While leaders endorsed a modest program for debt forgiveness, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill told Congress today that his tour of Africa had convinced him that eliminating debt burdens was not a solution to the continent's problems. "Even without debt, it is impossible to prosper without income," he said. "Even if we forgave all debts, many of these countries still couldn't fund their own budgets and would immediately have to borrow more."
Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, has been a champion of the president's decision to increase American foreign aid, a move that runs counter to the Republican Party's orthodoxy. But she stressed today that "development is a two-way responsibility" and that "there needs to be responsibility on the part of the recipient countries for good governance."
A senior African official here said he did not know whether that message was yet permeating many African capitals. "But Mr. Bush has a great advantage here," the official said. "To African ears, it sounds different coming from Dr. Rice and Colin Powell than from the white leadership of Europe and America. It will be interesting to see how much difference that makes."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the decision by the major industrial nations to commit billions of dollars in aid to African nations misspelled the surname of the president of South Africa in some copies. The president, who was instrumental in drafting a plan that sets conditions for receiving the money, is Thabo Mbeki, not Mbeke.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in Kananaskis, Alberta, yesterday, the last day of a Group of 8 summit meeting. (Reuters); President Bush and President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, before a working session yesterday in Kananaskis, Alberta, with leaders of the Group of 8 countries and South Africa, Nigeria, Algeria and Senegal. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); INWARD INVESTMENT (66%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (61%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); LEGISLATION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; PALESTINIANS; AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) GROUP OF EIGHT; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); THABO MBEKI (59%); TONY BLAIR (54%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; OBASANJO, OLUSEGUN (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (91%) AFRICA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); NIGERIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SENEGAL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (91%); FRANCE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MEXICO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); GERMANY (66%) AFRICA; EUROPE; JAPAN; RUSSIA; MIDDLE EAST; NIGERIA

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



636 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: WorldCom, WorldCon 

 BODY:
No wonder George W. Bush looked frustrated when news of WorldCom's monster con game reached the hilltop in Canada where heads of the world's biggest economies were gathering. Long gone are the days when a triumphal American leader could attend these summit conferences and gloat about the superiority of our home-grown capitalism. Even President Vladimir Putin of Russia was moved to express grave concern about American accounting practices.
 WorldCom, the telecommunications giant, reported late Tuesday that it had overstated its operating cash flow by $3.8 billion in the last five quarters, by improperly booking ordinary expenses as capital expenditures to be depreciated over time. Even a child can understand that painting your house is not the same as building a new one, but that basic concept seems to have eluded the people who were paid to keep an eye on WorldCom's books. It's no wonder that Europeans are now beginning to recoil from America's demand that the rest of the world adopt the accounting principles used in the United States. 
 Coming on the heels of Enron and a slew of other prominent financial scandals, WorldCom's apparent fraud left Washington regulators reeling, as well it might. In a speech on Wednesday night, Harvey Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, quoted the line from the movie "Network": "I'm mad as hell, and I'm not going to take it anymore." Mr. Pitt said chief executives of major corporations would now have to certify their companies' financial statements personally, which is a good thing. Echoing the president's vow "to hold people accountable," Mr. Pitt said corporate crooks and charlatans would be doing jail time, and that too is fine. Yet there is a lot more that Mr. Pitt, who has been accused of being much too cozy with the accounting industry, could do as a policy maker. One obvious move is to issue a blanket rule that auditors cannot provide companies whose books they police with any other services.
The simple nature yet breathtaking scale of WorldCom's deceit raises anew all the Enron questions about the failure of market guardians to prevent it. Was anyone on the board of directors even remotely suspicious? Why didn't the auditing firm, Arthur Andersen, realize that the company was booking false profits? Did high-profile WorldCom boosters on Wall Street give the company's phony numbers a pass because they were eager to win WorldCom's banking business? 
One positive byproduct of this seemingly endless parade of companies behaving badly could be a turnaround in Congress. If our elected officials have any sense of embarrassment, Paul Sarbanes' sensible accounting reform bill ought to sail through the Senate and prevail over a weaker House version in conference. Certainly if every lawmaker who benefited from campaign contributions from now-discredited companies and financial institutions votes for it, it will be on President Bush's desk quicker than you can say "market fundamentals." 
In the meantime, anxious investors are left to wonder what other financial scandals lie around the corner. America's status as the world's ultimate safe haven for investors is looking shaky. The huge inflow of foreign capital, $400 billion a year, has been a key factor in the country's recent prosperity. Two-fifths of all Treasury bonds are in foreign hands. An erosion of confidence in the United States could accelerate the dollar's recent decline and dry up needed credit. Capital flight is a danger we usually associate with countries like Argentina, but a few more WorldComs and the comparison may seem apt. 
We have been down this road before, but there is something about the sight of billions of dollars in potential profits that makes investors forget the lessons of history. In the 1920's and 1980's, speculative run-ups were followed by a painful relearning of certain basic truths. Breathless hype about the dawn of a new gravity-defying era and accounting gimmicks are no substitute for real profits. It may come as little consolation to WorldCom shareholders, who have lost $150 billion since the stock reached its all-time high in 1999, but the flushing out of the dishonest self-dealers is the first step toward a recovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AUDITS (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); CASH FLOW (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



637 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: THE POLITICS; 
Parties Maneuver Over Risks In Growing Business Scandal

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
The financial meltdown of WorldCom left President Bush and the Republicans struggling today to limit the political risk from what strategists in both parties say could be a shift in the way voters view business and the economy.
 In a telling sign that White House officials feel vulnerable in the face of an aggressive Democratic effort to seek partisan advantage from the string of corporate financial scandals, administration officials said Mr. Bush was planning to deliver a major address on corporate responsibility next month. 
 At a summit meeting of world leaders in Canada, Mr. Bush found himself on the defensive over WorldCom's announcement on Tuesday that it had failed to record $3.8 billion in expenses properly. 
Answering a reporter's question, Mr. Bush turned aside a suggestion that there was a political risk for him and sought to turn attention to the business executives involved, saying he was "concerned about the economic impact of the fact that there are some corporate leaders who have not upheld their responsibility."
White House officials said the president's speech next month would stress the need for companies and their top executives to provide investors with clear, accurate financial information and would offer what one Republican strategist close to the White House characterized as a "very strongly worded, tough-minded set of proposals" for improving corporate disclosure.
"What they're concerned about is people losing faith in their institutions," the strategist said, adding that the business scandals could touch the same public chord as have troubles in agencies like the F.B.I. and the C.I.A.
White House officials and Republican advisers said there were clear pitfalls for Mr. Bush, especially if the stock market continues to fall -- or the administration is seen as out of touch with popular disgust at corporate fraud and mismanagement and the associated job losses. 
Few administrations have been more closely associated with corporate America. Mr. Bush has an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and ran an energy company and a baseball team. Vice President Dick Cheney was chief executive of Halliburton, the oil field services company. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill was chief executive of Alcoa, the aluminum company.
"They've got to be careful that these corporate misdeeds like Enron and WorldCom don't become a latter-day Pac-Man," said Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was chief of staff in the Reagan White House. "It's chomp, chomp, chomp at approval ratings as a result of falling confidence in the economy and the markets. The presidential bully pulpit has to come into play here." 
On Capitol Hill, where only a few weeks ago it seemed that most legislation addressing corporate wrongdoing had bogged down under pressure from lobbyists, both parties today were scrambling to keep up with increasing pressure to act.
Democrats, sensing a new political opportunity in the run-up to November's Congressional elections, stepped up their efforts to highlight themes of corporate abuse -- everything from the Enron collapse to the prices charged by drug companies to corporate attempts to avoid taxes by incorporating abroad. Within hours of WorldCom's disclosure, Democrats were making the case that corporate misbehavior could be tied directly to Republicans.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, said on Wednesday: "It is, I think, telling that in 1995, when the Republican leadership came in, both Newt Gingrich and Tom DeLay made statements that the main goal of their effort was to try to deregulate corporate America. Well, they did a lot of that in the last years, and now we see some of the results of that."
Republicans fought right back. Representative Thomas M. Davis 3rd of Virginia, the head of the Republican re-election efforts in the House, said today: "It's this administration that's prosecuting Enron and successfully prosecuted Arthur Andersen. The Democrats are the party that defended Bill Clinton and pardoned Marc Rich," the fugitive financier.
In the Republican-controlled House, the Financial Services Committee scheduled a hearing for July 8 and voted to subpoena the current and former chief executives of WorldCom and a prominent Wall Street analyst. 
In the Senate, the majority leader, Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, won agreement from Republicans to bring to the floor early next month legislation that would tighten oversight of the accounting industry. After initially being cool to the bill, written by Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, White House officials signaled today that they would be willing to support it if changes were made to provisions on issues like the scope of a new accounting regulatory board.
"We've passed the critical mass, both from the standpoint of the political structure as well as the erosion of confidence of the capital markets in corporate America," said John J. Castellani, president of the Business Roundtable, a group of chief executives from the largest corporations. "It bodes for quicker and more intensive action."
Mindful that nearly half of all households and a majority of voters are shareholders, members of both parties said the corporate scandals could ripple into other issues via the stock market. Some political strategists said that just as both parties sought to capitalize on the emergence of a mass shareholder class during the boom of the 1990's, both could face public ire now that the bubble seems to have burst.
They said the large number of people who have seen big drops in their 401(k) retirement accounts and mutual funds mean that issues affecting the elderly and retirement are likely to be especially potent.
House Republicans were pressing to pass a prescription drug benefit before leaving for the Fourth of July holiday this weekend. And senior Republican strategists said the White House was acutely aware that it had to shore up confidence in the market before it could turn to one of Mr. Bush's campaign priorities, creating private investment accounts as part of Social Security. 
"I think the privatization crowd on Social Security is going to have one hell of an argument to try to justify this in the public's mind," said Senator Jon S. Corzine, a New Jersey Democrat who is a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs.
Mr. Bush's poll numbers on his handling of the economy have been weakening in recent weeks, in part as the strength of the recovery from last year's recession has been called into question. The crumbling of confidence among investors in the United States and around the world is already showing signs of further dampening the recovery, potentially increasing the pressure on Mr. Bush.
A poll released today by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that Mr. Bush's approval rating for his handling of the economy had slipped to 53 percent from 60 percent in January. The poll found that only 30 percent of the public sees the economy improving over the next 12 months, down from 42 percent a year ago, and just a third of those polled said the president was doing all he could to improve economic conditions, down from 48 percent six months ago. 
Since corporate behavior first became a political issue late last year as Enron imploded, the administration has sought to ward off any aggressive effort to reregulate business and financial markets. It is unclear whether the proposals Mr. Bush will offer in his speech next month will alter the administration's approach in any fundamental way.
But clearly sensitive to any suggestion that it is too cozy with corporate interests, the administration has sought to portray itself as unforgiving of corporate fraud and eager to prosecute wrongdoing aggressively. The administration has even come under some criticism for being too aggressive in prosecuting Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm at the center of the Enron case; the recent guilty verdict against the firm in federal court in Houston all but put Andersen out of business.
In his public statements, Mr. Bush increasingly sounds like Mr. O'Neill, who has for months voiced outrage about wrongdoing by executives.
Earlier this month, Mr. O'Neill said of executives convicted of fraud, "I think the people who have abused our trust, we ought to hang them from the very highest branches."
Republican strategists said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, and other White House officials have also been tracking the issue closely and have no doubt influenced Mr. Bush's response. 
They said the White House had been noting signs that corporate wrongdoing could be one factor in more voters seeing the country as being on the wrong track and in contributing to a general loss of faith in institutions ranging from government to the Catholic church.
"Intellectually, that's where Karl's concerns are," a Republican strategist said. "From a political standpoint, I think this is mostly being driven by the president's actual anger at how these companies are defrauding the public."
White House officials and Mr. Bush are also mindful of 1992, when the president's father was cast by Democrats as out of touch with the economic concerns of voters.
Mark McKinnon, a White House adviser who was Mr. Bush's chief media consultant in the 2000 campaign, said today that there was a "full focus" at the White House on the scandals and the economy.
"This president has an acute sensitivity to the economy," Mr. McKinnon said. "He knows its impact on people, and he knows its impact on the president."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Michael G. Oxley, Republican of Ohio, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, checks with an aide before signing a subpoena for WorldCom executives to appear before Congress. (Reuters); Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, will bring to the floor early next month legislation to tighten oversight of the accounting industry. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ETHICS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); DEREGULATION (68%); BASEBALL (61%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (60%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%) FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPANY REPORTS; PUBLIC OPINION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); ALCOA INC (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLDCOM INC 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%); TOM DASCHLE (72%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2002 



638 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; 
Major Central Banks Sell Yen To Try to Stem Recent Rise

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The world's three main central banks sold yen for dollars yesterday on behalf of the Japanese government, in hopes of stemming a rise in the value of the yen that threatens to hamper an export-driven recovery in Japan.
 The sales by the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan depressed the yen's value only briefly. By late afternoon in New York, the yen was trading at 119.66 to the dollar, a slight gain in value from the 119.27 level at the conclusion of New York trading on Thursday. The yen fell slightly against the euro. 
 The Fed and the European Central Bank did not put their own money to work, analysts said; they merely conducted transactions on behalf of the Bank of Japan, which has "been intervening on its own with very little success," said Rebecca Patterson of J. P. Morgan Chase.
The yen has gained 11 percent against the dollar in the last three months, as investors sought to profit from Japan's economic recovery and as weak profits and accounting scandals took some luster off American stocks. 
Analysts estimate Japan sold up to $5 billion worth of yen today, bringing the total since May 22 to some $35 billion.
"The problem is it's still their own money," said Jeremy Fand of Friedberg Mercantile Group. Doing some of the selling through foreign central banks is a new wrinkle, he said: "How can they make it seem more serious? Get others involved."
Slower growth in the United States, Japan's biggest foreign market, may stunt exports, which accounted for half of the Japanese economy's growth of 1.4 percent in the first quarter. 
"The most energetic piece of the Japanese economy now is exports, and the stronger yen threatens that," said David Rolley of Loomis Sayles in Boston. "It threatens the profitability of overseas sales and affects capital budgeting decisions inside Japan.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since Jan., 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). Chart: "Leading Underwriters"Managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States for the second quarter of 2002. For this ranking, the lead manager is given credit for the entire issue. Manager: CitigroupDollar volume (millions): $82,889.7Number of Issues: 308Share of market: 11.8%Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 2 Manager: Merrill LynchDollar volume (millions): 75,632.9Number of Issues: 336Share of market: 10.8Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 1 Manager: J. P. Morgan ChaseDollar volume (millions): 74,419.8Number of Issues: 276Share of market: 10.6Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 4 Manager: Credit Suisse First BostonDollar volume (millions): 68,590.5Number of Issues: 266Share of market: 9.8Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 3 Manager: Lehman BrothersDollar volume (millions): 58,455.1Number of Issues: 181Share of market: 8.3Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 5 Manager: Morgan StanleyDollar volume (millions): 55,164.2Number of Issues: 146Share of market: 7.8Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 7 Manager: Deutsche BankDollar volume (millions): 44,883.7Number of Issues: 193Share of market: 6.41Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 1 Banc of America SecuritiesDollar volume (millions): 44,280.9Number of Issues: 282Share of market: 6.3Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 8 Manager: Goldman, SachsDollar volume (millions): 40,799.3Number of Issues: 132Share of market: 5.8Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 6 Manager: UBS WarburgDollar volume (millions): 40,377.1Number of Issues: 169Share of market: 5.7Rank in 2nd qtr. 2001: 9 (Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (95%); JAPANESE YEN (93%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ACCOUNTING (52%); SCANDALS (52%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



639 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Slips Less Than Expected; Incomes Rise 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence fell less than expected in June, and incomes rose in May, according to reports released today. 
 The reading of 92.4 in the University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment, while down from 96.9 in May, was higher than the 90.8 that economists had forecast. 
 The Commerce Department said today that incomes rose 0.3 percent last month after a 0.2 percent gain in April. And, according to an industry survey, manufacturing in the Chicago area expanded for a fifth month in June. 
In addition, the Commerce Department reported that consumer spending dropped 0.1 percent in May, the first decline in six months. The decline followed a 0.6 percent increase in April. Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of the economy.
The drop in the Michigan index is the second in three months and compares with a low of 81.8 in September. Recent news about corporate accountability problems, which have contributed to declines in stocks, may have weighed on confidence this month. The index is based on a phone survey of about 500 households. 
The university's current conditions index, which reflects Americans' perception of their financial situation, fell to 99.5 this month from 103.5 in May. A separate index of expectations, based on optimism about the next one to five years, fell to 87.9 from 92.7. 
The Commerce Department report showed that disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, increased 0.3 percent in May for a second consecutive month. Wages and salaries rose 0.4 percent after no change in April. 
The personal savings rate was 3.1 percent in May, up from 2.8 percent in April. The indicator weighs current income from wages, salaries, businesses and government payments against spending. It does not account for borrowed money, income from investments or withdrawals from previous savings. 
The drop in spending was the first since a 0.3 percent decline in November. 
In addition, purchases of durable goods like cars, appliances, and other big-ticket items -- adjusted for inflation -- fell 2.4 percent in May after a 0.5 percent rise in April, today's report showed. 
Spending on nondurable goods was unchanged after rising 0.1 percent. Spending on services, which account for half of the report, increased 0.6 percent after rising 0.1 percent in April. 
While manufacturing grew in the industrial Midwest, the pace was slower in June than in May. 
The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its factory index fell to 58.2 this month from 60.8 in May. Last month's index was the highest in three years. Readings higher than 50 mean business increased, as it has for the last five months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (96%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); INCOME 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



640 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Is Attracting a Better Class of Factory in Its South 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico 

 BODY:
The numbers add up to doom for cheap labor, one of Mexico's most marketable commodities since World War II. In the last two years, some 280,000 jobs have vanished with the closure of more than 350 maquiladoras, the foreign-owned assembly plants that manufacture for export everything from blue jeans to blenders, televisions to toys. 
 So Mexico has embarked an effort to attract a new kind of maquiladora, one that requires more skilled workers and will, the government hopes, offer more satisfying, stable jobs. 
 The closing of so many maquiladoras reflects the harsh economics of globalization. Cheap as Mexico's labor is, it is not as cheap as that in Asia or Eastern Europe. They now attract the kind of manufacturing that sprang up here, first along the border with the United States and then farther south, in places like this balmy part of the Yucatan peninsula. 
Now, this area displays flickering signs of an industrial evolution in which Mexico's maquiladora industry moves to multimillion-dollar high-tech factories that offer skills, and even decent salaries, to workers.
One such beacon of hope is the plant formally opened here in February by PCC Airfoils, a subsidiary of an Ohio-based company that produces airplane parts for General Electric.
Although workers like Dianela Suarez or Victor Flores make more than double the $4 minimum daily wage in this region, a sum that counterparts in the United States would earn in less than an hour, they are acquiring technical skills, have risen quickly from factory floor worker to group leader and sound fulfilled.
"I have had many jobs," said Mrs. Suarez, a 35-year-old former secretary with a junior high school education who is studying company manuals for tests to become a licensed quality inspector. "My vision is to have a career."
Mr. Flores, 28, was educated at a technical high school, and worked five years as a refrigeration and air-conditioning technician before joining PCC Airfoils. The government paid more than half the cost to train him for an entry-level position at the factory.
"This is an experience that is different from most maquiladoras," he said. "I am learning things about technology and engineering that I can use all my life. This kind of experience is invaluable."
Government officials are hopeful that high-tech companies will take the place of the factories that rely on low-scale labor.
"We are not interested any more in these types of companies," said Patricio Patron, governor of the state of Yucatan, where the number of maquiladoras grew from 16 to 131 in just one decade; most are clothing companies like Eddie Bauer and The Gap, which liked the proximity of a port with direct shipping to New Orleans and cheaper wages than on the United States border. "They are part of an era we are trying to overcome. We want to give opportunities to higher level factories -- and some are beginning to come."
Nonbelievers say such sentiments are wishful thinking. They note that the number of high-tech factories that have opened is relatively small, and say Mexico's poor education system cannot fill a labor pool large enough for highly skilled jobs. But even skeptics acknowledge that Mexico has few strategic options.
"Mexico's going to have to graduate the way all other countries do," Sidney Weintraub, an economist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said in a recent radio interview. "It's inevitable that countries that earn their money through relatively cheap labor, as their situation improves and the labor costs go up, they just have to move up on the technology scale."
Indeed, almost as fast as they came, Yucatan's textile factories have begun to go, battered over the last two years by an economic decline and drop in consumer demand in the United States. Meanwhile, Mexican wages increased, supported by a superstrong peso.
"Our costs have gone up 10 percent a year for the last five years," said Fabio Atti, general manager of an Italian-owned swimsuit factory, Produce Mexico. "If that trend continues, it is going to be difficult for us to stay."
PCC Airfoils is one of two high-tech factories that have opened here in the last year. The other, Seal and Metal Products of Latin America, a subsidiary of Pennsylvania-based Stein Seal, also produces airplane parts for General Electric.
"T-shirt factories do not stimulate economic expansion," said Alberto Barrera, a Mexican who is the general manager of Seal and Metal. "But a maquiladora that invests in technology and in training its workers creates slow but stable growth."
So far, Mr. Barrera said, he has hired fewer than 20 workers. But each goes through months of training. "A textile plant can open and close in a week," he added. "It took half a year just to get this plant up and running."
His sentiments were echoed by Jean Freyre, general manager at PCC Airfoils.
"I'd like to think that in time we are going to offer the kinds of jobs that will keep people from leaving their hometowns and their country to make a decent living," he said, "the kinds of jobs that give people a sense of belonging, and a sense of stability."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cindy Chan checks lingerie in Merida at the kind of plant that is being replaced by high-tech ones like PCC Airfoils, where Dianela Suarez works. (Photographs by Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Merida: High-tech factories are opening in Merida and elsewhere in Yucatan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); APPAREL MFG (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); GOVERNORS (68%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); QUALITY CONTROL (63%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



641 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2266 words

HEADLINE: Textbook Publishers Learn: Avoid Messing With Texas 

BYLINE:  By ALEXANDER STILLE

 BODY:
"Out of Many," the work of four respected historians, is one of the biggest sellers among American history college textbooks in the United States, but it is not likely to be available to Texas high school students taking advanced placement history. Conservative groups in Texas objected to two paragraphs in the nearly 1,000-page text that explained that prostitution was rampant in cattle towns during the late 19th century, before the West was fully settled.
 "It makes it sound that every woman west of the Mississippi was a prostitute," said Grace Shore, the Republican chairwoman of the Texas State Board of Education. "The book says that there were 50,000 prostitutes west of the Mississippi. I doubt it, but even if there were, is that something that should be emphasized? Is that an important historical fact?" 
 The publisher, Pearson Prentice Hall, has quietly withdrawn the book from consideration by the board. Wendy Spiegel, a vice president for communications at the company, said it had another textbook that better fit the state's curriculum. 
Textbook battles are legendary in Texas, where conservative critics frequently complain of liberal bias, and liberals counter with charges of censorship. The latest round, on July 17, when the board begins public hearings on which history and social studies books to adopt, promises to be particularly fierce. Nine conservative organizations have formed a coalition, recruiting 250 volunteers to vet more than 150 books.
The outcome has far more than regional interest. After California, Texas is the biggest buyer of textbooks in the United States, accounting for nearly 10 percent of the national market. In fact, conservative activists in Texas say they have already received calls from leading publishers anxious to discuss the forthcoming history and social studies adoptions. Many publishers write their books with the Texas and California markets in mind, but complain of political pressure. 
"The bottom line is that Texas and California are the biggest buyers of textbooks in the country, and what we adopt in Texas is what the rest of the country gets," said Carol Jones, the field director of the Texas chapter of Citizens for a Sound Economy, part of the coalition monitoring books for errors, examples of political bias, omissions or information that it deems offensive and that it says gives the texts a liberal slant.
Peggy Venable, director of the Texas chapter, said executives at Pearson Prentice Hall withdrew "Out of Many," because they "wisely didn't want to jeopardize their larger sales in the state by having that book as its poster child." 
This year, Pearson Prentice Hall is offering 27 other books for adoption in Texas, ranging from texts for first grade social studies to ones for Advanced Placement world history. The potential prize is great: Texas has allocated $700 million over the next two years for textbooks and related materials in history and social studies -- a sizable chunk of the nation's $4.5 billion textbook market.
Most states, including New York, choose textbooks on a school-by-school or district-by-district basis, but Texas and California buy them through a formal statewide process. The Texas board votes in November, giving the state's schools lists of approved textbooks to choose from. 
In 1995, the Texas legislature sought to eliminate politically charged conflicts by passing a law that limited the grounds for a book's rejection to physical defects or "factual inaccuracy." In recent years, though, conservative groups have become adept at blocking books by arguing that political bias and the omission of certain facts constitute "factual inaccuracy." Moreover, the provision in the Texas Education Code that textbooks should promote democracy, patriotism and the free-enterprise system has been used to attack certain books.
Thus the Texas case raises a series of new questions about how to write history. What constitutes an "error" in a history or science textbook? What facts are central and which can be omitted? Should history books inculcate patriotism and appreciation of free enterprise? And most significantly, who should decide those questions?
The conservative groups are feeling confident after last year's adoption process for environmental science texts, in which they succeeded in persuading the Board of Education to reject two texts.
Among other things, those books were criticized as "anti-technology," "anti-Christian" and "anti-American," and for saying there was scientific consensus that global warming was changing the earth's climate.
An environmental science book that ultimately won approval, "Global Science: Energy, Resources, Environment" published by Kendall/Hunt, was partly financed by the Mineral Information Institute, a consortium of mining companies. Duggan Flanakin, who wrote influential reports on the textbooks for the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative organization, used to work for the United States Bureau of Mines. And Ms. Shore, the Board of Education chairwoman, is a co-owner of TEC Well Service Inc., a Longview, Tex., company that repairs and deepens oil wells as well as produces gas and oil.
"The oil and gas industry should be consulted," she told The Austin American-Statesman, a daily newspaper, at the time of last year's board vote. "We always get a raw deal." 
One Dallas publisher, J. M. LeBel Enterprises, after having Jane L. Person's "Environmental Science: How the World Works and Your Place in It" rejected on Nov. 8, spent most of the next night working with state education officials to incorporate a series of changes in this high school textbook suggested by one of the foundation's critiques. These changes resulted in the book's approval.
Ms. Venable and other conservative critics insist that they do not want to edit or rewrite textbooks, only to assure that they are stripped of ideology and offer a straightforward, objective statement of facts. 
But Rene LeBel, the publishing company's president, deplored the process, even though he maintained that he did not alter the book's fundamental content. "It was a book burning," he said. "It was 100 percent political." 
At the suggestion of the foundation, the LeBel company rewrote the sentence "Destruction of the tropical rain forest could affect weather over the entire planet" so that it now reads, "Tropical rain forest ecosystems impact weather over the entire planet." It also added these sentences: "In the past, the earth has been much warmer than it is now, and fossils of sea creatures show us that the sea level was much higher than it is today. So does it really matter if the world gets warmer?"
The foundation also succeeded in having this sentence deleted: "Most experts on global warming feel that immediate action should be taken to curb global warming." 
"We are now telling them what to write and what not to write," Mary Helen Berlanga, a Democratic member of the Board of Education, said of authors. (The board has 10 Republicans and 5 Democrats.)
But others say this is simply democracy at work. "We citizens are truly the clients," Ms. Venable said. "It is our children's education and future at stake, and our tax dollars are paying for the books. If people in Texas are more conservative than people in Massachusetts or New York, so be it." 
Singled out for particular censure at last year's hearings and ultimately rejected by the Board of Education was "Environmental Science: Creating a Sustainable Future," by Daniel D. Chiras, published by Jones & Bartlett, a small company in Sudbury, Mass. The book is in its sixth edition and has been used widely in colleges for the past 20 years.
Professor Chiras, who teaches at the University of Denver and the University of Colorado, does not disguise his environmental activism. "Things can't go on as they have been," he writes in the opening chapter. "We must change our ways." He criticizes the "throwaway mentality" and "obsession with growth" in American life, disapproves of the environmental policies of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush Sr. and praises those of Bill Clinton. 
The day before the Board of Education voted, the Texas Public Policy Foundation distributed a 24-page critique that listed all of what it called the Chiras book's errors. At one point, for example, the critique attacks Professor Chiras for repeating the "oft-used falsehood that over 100 million Americans are breathing unhealthy air." It points out that since pollution levels in most American cities exceed allowable standards only on certain days of the year, "on most days, the air in every city in the U.S. is healthy." But is this inaccuracy or two different ways of interpreting the same facts? 
"I think it's really dangerous that the Texas Public Policy Foundation has so much influence that you have publishers writing to please the conservative right at the risk of suppressing alternative views and critically examining the issues," said Dean DeChambeau, director of development for Jones & Bartlett. "We lost a quarter of a million dollars' worth of business. Other publishers, who would lose millions of dollars of business if they lost an adoption, are more likely to be influenced by the groups."
After the battle over environmental science, Ms. Venable and other activists on the textbook front were contacted by a number of publishers. Their hope was that by consulting critics in advance, they might avoid a battle at the hearings that could lead to their books' rejection.
"I think there is a very great danger of self-censorship," said Byron Hollinshead, the president of American Historical Publications, the New York company that produced "The History of US," a middle school textbook distributed by Oxford University Press. "If a big publisher produces an edition specifically for Texas and then hears from these groups that they want a series of changes, they are going to make them." 
Texas holds adoptions for different academic subjects each year; it generally replaces textbooks in a given subject every six years, so that books approved this time would be in circulation until 2009. 
When Pearson Prentice Hall decided to submit "Out of Many: A History of the American People," the company hired a high school teacher to alert it to potential problems. "They were mostly questions involving sexuality, homosexuality, AIDS, prostitution, things like that," said Mari Jo Buhle, a professor of history at Brown University and one of the book's co-authors. The teacher suggested, for example, taking out the paragraphs that dealt with the gay rights movement in the 1970's and the development of birth control. The authors agreed to make some concessions by removing profanity in historical quotations.
But they refused to change anything of substance, like the subsection on gay rights, the mention of Margaret Sanger and the development of contraception and the "Cowgirls and Prostitutes" section. The passages on prostitution tell about the economic forces that pushed women into prostitution and the health hazards they were exposed to. The book's critics felt it had no place in American history.
"I don't mean that we should sweep things under the rug," Ms. Venable said. "But the children should see the hope and the good things about America." 
But it is inevitably tricky to reconcile Texas's requirement that textbooks promote democracy, patriotism and free enterprise with the historian's supposedly disinterested pursuit of truth. The politics of the day are always going to influence the presentation of history, said John Mack Faragher, a history professor at Yale University and the lead author of "Out of Many."
"There was no women's history until there was a women's movement, there was no African-American history before there was a civil rights movement," he said. "Historical practice is very much determined by the things that people are concerned about."
"History is ultimately a moral art, and it is about values," he continued. "It is not merely about the collection of facts. It is about the way we put those facts together and the meaning we give them. Arguments about facts are arguments about meaning."

One Book's Writing
And Texasizing
Following are some of the changes the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative organization, requested in "Environmental Science: How the World Works and Your Place in It," by Jane L. Person, before this high school textbook was adopted by the Texas Board of Education. The book's Dallas publisher, J. M. LeBel, agreed to the modifications. 
This paragraph was deleted from a section on an old-growth forest ecosystem:
Native Americans saw the virgin forest as a source of food and a dwelling place of their God. The colonists feared the forest and the animals that lived in it. This fear is reflected in "Little Red Riding Hood" and other popular children's stories. The colonists viewed the forest as an obstacle to agriculture, and they began clearing the land. Clearing was often accomplished with fire, and thousands of acres of forest burned when fires got out of control.
This sentence was added to a paragraph discussing the world's largest industrial accident, which occurred in 1984 at a Union Carbide pesticide plant in Bhopal India. 
What do you think? Was the $470 million settlement sufficient for the victims' needs? How much buying power does this sum have in India compared to the same amount in the United States?
This sentence was added to a section on clean air:
The sulfur dioxide emissions trading program has been very successful in encouraging power plants to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Texas high school students. The books in Texas classrooms are chosen by the State Board of Education, below, shown during last year's meetings on science texts. (Steve Starr/Corbis; below, Associated Press)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); TEXTBOOKS (92%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WOMEN (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); CENSORSHIP (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); ADOPTION (68%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (84%)

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (84%); PSO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



642 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Embarrassment 

 BODY:
Having finally come to grips with the necessity of raising the federal debt limit, Congress may feel it has earned the right to a weeklong Fourth of July holiday. Perhaps only in Washington can people plunge the nation deep into debt and then think of themselves as profiles in courage when they summon the nerve to authorize the Treasury to borrow money to pay the bills.
 It actually took considerable pressure from the White House to get House Republicans to vote to raise the statutory ceiling on federal debt. While the lawmakers couldn't wait to lower taxes and raise spending, no one wanted to acknowledge the obvious consequences. But the red ink has only just begun to flow. The mechanisms that have kept budgetary discipline since 1997 will expire this fall, which could free Congress to pursue even more irresponsible spending and tax-cutting. 
 This summer the administration and Congressional budget experts will release new deficit projections for coming years, and voters should be prepared for a shock. By some accounts they could soar to $200 billion, approaching the bad old days of the early 1990's. Revenues are plummeting because of the shaky economy, the plunging stock market and the cost of the tax cuts enacted last year. Spending is going up not only for national security but for popular election-year programs.
But while deploring deficits, many lawmakers are still determined to force cuts in the estate tax, draining the treasury for the benefit of the richest taxpayers. For that reason alone, it is imperative for the Senate to do something it has been unable to do so far this year -- pass some budget ceilings and a renewal of mechanisms that enforce them. A recent attempt got 59 votes, one vote short of the 60 needed to cut off a filibuster. It was the White House and many Senate Republicans who didn't want the ceilings passed. They think that not passing them will make it easier to pass more tax cuts in the fall, and they are right. Too many senators who know better would be afraid not to vote for it.
Right now members of Congress are assuring each other that deficits may not matter if the economy is doing all right. But if there is no sign of a significant upturn by this fall, voters are going to be asking tough questions about what their elected officials have been doing to make things better. It's unlikely they'll feel that raising the debt ceiling was enough of an achievement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (92%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ESTATE TAX (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US); FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



643 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Religion Journal; 
Putting Money Where Beliefs Are, Through 'Morally Pure' Mutual Funds

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
The financial community is better known for irrational exuberance than religious reverence. With its culture of hard-charging salesmen, bawdy camaraderie and liquid lunches, it has even been described as a godless place.
 But investors can now choose from several dozen religion-based mutual funds, created with the intent of keeping portfolios morally pure. In the case of one such fund, investors have also turned a handsome profit. 
 Depending on the particular religion, holdings are screened to avoid companies involved in pornography, birth control, bombs, giving insurance benefits to the same-sex domestic partners of employees and charging interest on loans. 
The MMA Praxis Funds, for example, which comply with Anabaptist Christian ideals, will not hold the stock of military contractors or Treasury bonds, since the proceeds go toward military spending. 
Although religion-based funds might seem to be a close cousin to the better-known socially conscious mutual funds that gained popularity in the anti-apartheid movement of the mid-1980's, the holdings of the two fund groups are often directly opposite.
Socially conscious funds, for example, purposefully seek out companies that give domestic-partner benefits, which is grounds for exclusion for many religion-based funds.
Tim Sujek, 57, of Saline, Mich., had long felt queasy about opposing contraception while profiting from it by owning funds that included health-care stocks. 
"It felt like being an accomplice," Mr. Sujek said, "like driving a getaway car."
Then, while flipping through a local Roman Catholic newspaper, he saw an advertisement for the Ave Maria Catholic Fund, which is made up of value stocks that are true to Catholic principles.
"I finally had the ability to put my money where my mouth is and do the will of God," Mr. Sujek said.
The Ave Maria Catholic Fund had just started, in May 2001, however, and had virtually no track record. But past performance was not a factor in Mr. Sujek's decision, because the rate of return was not central to his investment objectives.
Not all investors in religion-based mutual funds are willing to earn less. Donald Kennedy, a retiree in Philadelphia, owns shares of the Noah Fund, a $10 million fund started in 1996 that is guided by evangelical Christian principles. 
On its Web site, the fund proclaims: "Hallelujah, we believe the Noah Fund is a gift from God that could be your answer to biblically based investing." 
"For me," said Mr. Kennedy, who lives off his investment income, "the religious principles don't exist to the exclusion of performance. My expectation was, and is, that it will deliver the same returns."
That said, Mr. Kennedy believes that buying stock in a company that he considers morally or ethically questionable is akin "to the Mafia starting some sort of syndication deal and me buying stock in it." 
When Gregg Watkins, who had been a money manager for 30 years, was asked to become the portfolio manager of the Ave Maria Catholic Fund, his biggest concern was whether he could match the performance of comparable secular funds.
Mr. Watkins said, "I had to ask, Did I have a fighting chance for competitive rates of return?" 
He thought the answer was yes.
"I'm obviously not unbiased on the issue," Mr. Watkins said, "but I just thought that all funds have to pick out of a universe of 2,500 candidates, and if religious criteria screen a few hundred off the top, you can still construct a good portfolio out of a 2,200-stock universe."
Mr. Watkins added: "The cynical would have to make the argument that those 300 are superior in order to consider the fund to be really handicapped. That would mean that violating Catholic beliefs, in fact, leads to higher profits."
The Ave Maria Catholic Fund relies on a Catholic advisory board to screen stocks before they are bought and to review companies' continuing practices. The board includes Bowie K. Kuhn, the former commissioner of baseball; Thomas S. Monaghan, the founder of Domino's Pizza; and Phyllis Schlafly, the writer and anti-abortion campaigner. 
Whether it might hamper his money manager to have buy-and-sell decisions vetted by a committee meant little to Mr. Sujek. 
"I just felt it was important to do the will of God," he said, "even if it meant making a little less money." 
But a funny thing happened on the way to making a little less money. In the past year, which has been an extremely difficult one for stocks, with markets shaken by economic weakness, earnings' shortages, accounting scandals and Sept. 11, the Ave Maria Catholic Fund has performed well. 
While the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 7.77 percent and the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index is down 13.78 percent to date this year, the Ave Maria Catholic Fund is up 3.9 percent. Over the last 12 months, the S.& P. 500 is down 19.28 percent, while the Ave Maria Catholic Fund is up more than 7 percent.
Mr. Watkins said that a byproduct of not investing in companies that offered domestic-partner insurance benefits was that his fund had largely avoided poorly performing Internet companies, many of which offered the benefits. 
Most religion-based funds, like the Noah Fund -- which, as of March 31 of this year, had an average annualized three-year return of negative 12.08 percent -- have not performed as well as the Ave Maria fund. But Mr. Kennedy is still holding tight, pointing to the fact that market conditions on the whole have been bad. 
The Ave Maria Catholic Fund currently has $55 million in assets, small by mutual fund standards, though it is more than five times as large as the Noah Fund.
Among the Ave Maria fund's current holdings are the Kimberly Clark Corporation, McDonald's and Exxon. "Believe it or not," Mr. Watkins said, Exxon"meets all of our criteria." 
On Wall Street, an adage is that the only sin is a down month and the only God Mammon. But by phone from his office in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., far from Wall Street, Mr. Watkins tossed out two reasons why his fund's performance has been so good in such a bad market. 
"It is either divine intervention," he said, laughing, "or portfolio manager genius."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Kennedy, an investor in a religion-based mutual fund, says that "the religious principles don't exist to the exclusion of performance." (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); RELIGION (91%); ETHICAL INVESTING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); BONDS (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); ETHICS (76%); COHABITATION (75%); PORNOGRAPHY (75%); CONTRACEPTION (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (70%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); WEB SITES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES 

ORGANIZATION: AVE MARIA CATHOLIC FUND 

PERSON: FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



644 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: No Rings, Brass or Not, for Chinatown Jewelers 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Where have all the lovebirds gone? 
 Sio Wang Sang, the owner of Golden Jade jewelers on Canal Street, says it's been more than a week since he sold an engagement ring in his Chinatown store. 
 Before Sept. 11, Mr. Sang sold 5 to 10 engagement rings a week, many of them to upwardly mobile, or at least upwardly aspiring, young men who worked in the nearby financial firms of Lower Manhattan. The men used to walk to Canal Street after work to seek advice on the subtleties of marquise, princess and pear-cut diamonds. As predictable as the change of seasons, there would be a surge in ring sales in December, before the holidays, and in February, right before Valentine's Day. 
But now, Mr. Sang says, he's lucky to have one ring customer a week. "After Sept. 11, they all ran away," Mr. Sang said. "They don't work here anymore. That is bad for business." 
Nine months after the World Trade Center attack, Chinatown is bustling with tourists and shoppers scraping past each other on narrow sidewalks. But Chinatown's 250 jewelers are slowly suffocating. 
Fattened by the boom economy of the late 1990's, the industry has been hit by a triple blow: the World Trade Center attack slashed the number of financial workers and foreign tourists; the limp economy reduced consumer spending on luxury goods; and the closing of the Grand Street station cut off the closest subway stop. 
It's not just engagement ring sales that have suffered. It's everything: black pearl earrings, 24-karat-gold statues, diamond-encrusted crucifixes and Rolex watches. The jewelry stores in the golden strand running east from Broadway down Canal Street and curving onto the Bowery have signs of their desperation in their windows: "50% off engagement rings!" and "Father's Day 50-70% off! Free gift with every present." 
In total, Chinatown jewelry merchants say that business is down 30 percent to 50 percent compared with last year. That is significantly more than the 20 percent to 25 percent drop-off that jewelers say they are seeing in the Midtown diamond district on 47th Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues.
Like many of the neighborhood's retail businesses, Chinatown's jewelers operate on the principle of low margins and high volume. As Mr. Sang put it, "This is the Fifth Avenue quality at Downtown prices." He pulled a sparkling 1.5-carat engagement ring priced at $7,000 out of the display case. "This would cost at least $8,000 uptown," he said. 
In Chinatown jewelry stores these days, clerks stand at doorways encouraging people to come in and "just take a look." Managers stand idle, then break out in eager smiles as potential shoppers come in, only to be disappointed to learn that customers want only to get a watch or necklace repaired. 
In particular, the stores on the Bowery side have been hit hard by the closing of the nearby Grand Street subway stop, which will be closed until at least late 2003 while the Manhattan Bridge is repaired. 
Although the jewelry industry has always risen and fallen in lock step with the economy, this bust may be particularly harsh because so many stores opened on Canal Street during the 1990's. New stores opened to meet the customer demand buoyed by a rising stock market.
But now, about 10 of the neighborhood storefronts have closed -- some of them arcades that accommodated multiple vendors. Some have been replaced by other jewelry storefronts, which are also struggling. At a newly renovated arcade at 177 Canal Street, only half the counters have been rented since the grand opening two months ago. 
Still adorned with red, white and blue celebratory ribbons, the store exudes the disappointed air of a half-completed strip mall. One window is filled with plants in red-foil-linedpots because the landlord can't find anyone willing to pay the $6,000 rent for a front counter.
"It's getting worse," said Shun Lee, who has been in the jewelry business for 30 years. Mr. Lee opened his booth, La Salvia, at 177 Canal in mid-June.
The stores that haven't permanently shut their doors have laid off significant numbers of workers. Before Sept. 11, Mr. Sang had 16 women working at the counters on the weekends. But on a recent Sunday afternoon, just 6 women were working.
Many store owners say this is one of the worst periods -- if not the worst -- in the Chinatown jewelry industry's history. Before the street became Chinatown's backbone, it was the forefather of the bigger and better-known diamond district.
During the 1930's, European dealers fleeing the Nazis set up shop on the eastern end of Canal, which had then already sprouted from a turn-of-the-century sidewalk diamond market to established stores. 
After World War II, jewelers started moving to Midtown, in part to escape the rents on Canal, which were rising because of the recovering postwar economy.
The 47th Street district, with its focus on wholesale diamonds, soon became the dominant jewelry district in New York City. But Canal Street's jewelry district got a second lease on life in the 1970's, when Chinese entrepreneurs like Mr. Sang set up shop there. 
Born in Macao, Mr. Sang, 56, spent four years in the Dominican Republic working in the jewelry business before moving to New York City. He opened his first store in 1973 when most of his customers were Hispanic and Italian.
Mr. Sang's extended family -- siblings, uncles, in-laws and siblings of in-laws -- own at least a dozen Chinatown jewelry stores. (No one is sure how many exactly. They count to 10 on their fingers and then wave off the others, saying there are too many to remember.) Mr. Sang himself owns three stores: Golden Jade, S.&N. Jewelers and El Dorado. 
But now shoppers are scarce. Store owners don't know if determination can continue to be a substitute for paying customers.
Mr. Lee reopened his business at 177 Canal after its previous home, a jewelry arcade on the corner of Canal and Centre, closed in November and was replaced by a Starbucks.
Despite phone calls alerting old customers to his new location, he estimates that only a third of his customers have followed him.
Grimacing, he said sadly, "The rest have disappeared."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Business is slow at Golden Jade, where the owner used to have 16 women working the counter on weekends. Now only 6 do. Chinatown's proximity to the financial district, and losses there, have contributed to the decline.; Window shoppers peering at the wares of the Golden Jade jewelry store in Chinatown. Jewelers there have seen business decrease dramatically. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) Map of Manhattan highlighting World Trade Center Site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWELRY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); JEWELRY STORES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SCULPTURE (75%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



645 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Best Chances For Vouchers Lie in the Cities 

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Despite a Supreme Court ruling on Thursday that allows parents to use government-financed vouchers for religious and private schools, vouchers face particularly tall hurdles in New York State. 
 Both supporters and opponents say there is strong language in the state Constitution prohibiting government aid -- direct or indirect -- to religious education. In addition, the power of the New York City teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, as a political force in Albany may prevent elected officials who are ambivalent about vouchers from supporting them, especially in an election year, when candidates may need union endorsement. 
 But if vouchers do find a footing in New York, analysts predicted, it will not be among conservative Republicans, but among younger black and Hispanic families dissatisfied with urban schools, and among minority elected officials within the Democratic Party. 
In New York, as in other states, Republican voters are concentrated in the suburbs. Although vouchers have been a bedrock conservative issue, suburban voters support their public schools, and Republican candidates may find support for vouchers politically risky.
"I think it's ripe if you have that minority voice come forward in New York," said Joseph P. Viteritti, director of the program on education and civil society at New York University. "It's going to emerge from the cities, not the suburbs, and it has to be a Democratic issue, not a Republican issue."
In Cleveland and Milwaukee, which have voucher programs, a similar dynamic has been at work. In both cities, the impetus for vouchers came from urban minority communities.
In Milwaukee, the fight for school vouchers was led by Polly Williams, a black single mother forced by unemployment to go temporarily on welfare. Drawn into politics by her unwillingness to have her child bused to a school outside her neighborhood, she was elected to the Wisconsin Assembly from the predominantly black Near North district of Milwaukee.
In Cleveland, one of the leaders of the voucher movement was Fannie Lewis, also the black mother of a school-age child, who was elected to the City Council from the low-income community of Hough.
One damper on the voucher movement in New York, however, may be the recent legislation putting the New York City school system under mayoral control, which takes effect Monday. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that he had no interest in allowing vouchers to distract him. "I was hired to improve the public school system and that's what I'm going to focus on," he said, adding that the "evidence on whether vouchers work is mixed."
Roman Catholic lobbying groups immediately began to focus their attention yesterday on the Black, Puerto Rican and Hispanic Legislative Caucus in Albany. "A lot of our advocacy really must be geared toward minority communities, to begin to apply pressure on the Black and Hispanic Caucus, who in turn can apply pressure on both houses to get something going," said Dennis Poust, a spokesman for the New York State Catholic Conference.
The biggest obstacle to minority legislative support, Mr. Poust added, is probably the state teachers union, whose large membership and get-out-the-vote money are critical. "So that puts legislators in a very uncomfortable position," Mr. Poust said.
Mr. Poust said the New York State bishops were planning a pastoral statement to be released in time for the opening of school in the fall on "parental rights in education," which will address not just the voucher decision but other areas where religious schools would like more government support, like transportation, remedial services and computers.
However, even as voucher advocates began planning long-term strategy yesterday, New York's legislative leadership vowed to block efforts to start a voucher program in the state.
Assemblyman Steven Sanders, chairman of the Assembly Education Committee, said that "there is virtually no likelihood" that vouchers would be adopted in New York State.
He pointed out that the state's Constitution, through a provision known as the Blaine Amendment, specifies that neither the state nor local government may give aid to schools "wholly or in part under the control or direction of any religious denomination."
Beyond the constitutional prohibition, Mr. Sanders said, state law provides that only a school district -- not a city government -- can spend money allocated for educational purposes. It was this provision of state law that defeated Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's attempt to begin a small experimental voucher program for poor children in New York City.
Instead, a group of wealthy Wall Street businessmen, supported by Mr. Giuliani, began the School Choice Scholarships Foundation, which awarded scholarships by lottery for public-school children to go to private or parochial schools. That fund, however, ran out of steam as it became clear that vouchers were not going to be adopted in New York. 
"I think there will be some groups that will try to convince parents to leave the system," Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said yesterday.
But Ms. Weingarten said she believed that voucher advocates were wrong if they thought there would be a groundswell of support in minority communities. She pointed to parents who rejected a bid by Edison Schools, the private management company, to take over five New York City schools last year.
"The Edison vote showed that if you could change public schools and make them better, parents would want the public schools," Ms. Weingarten said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL VOUCHERS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); MAYORS (89%); SUBURBS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); CITIES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



646 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Guard Roster Was Inflated 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
New York State systematically inflated troop strength figures for its Army National Guard in the late 1990's, in an attempt to make recruitment efforts appear more successful than they were, state officials reported yesterday.
 The state's Division of Military and Naval Affairs delayed discharging soldiers so that it could claim to other state offices and the Pentagon that its troop strength rose every week, according to a report by the state inspector general, Roslynn R. Mauskopf. The findings were confirmed by the Division of Military and Naval Affairs, the agency that includes the Army National Guard, Air National Guard and Naval Militia. 
 Division officials would not say whether any commanders would lose their jobs over the matter. The inspector general concluded that no criminal conduct was involved and did not refer the case to law enforcement agencies. 
One of Gov. George E. Pataki's chief goals when he took office in 1995 was to arrest a steep decline in the size of the National Guard. He succeeded, and troop strength has held roughly steady over the last eight years. The Guard has played an important role in disaster recovery, particularly after the Sept. 11 attacks, when thousands of part-time soldiers were called to active duty.
In 1996, the governor and the State Legislature began a program of offering to pay college tuition for new recruits. Ms. Mauskopf's report suggests that top Guard commanders were so committed to the tuition program that they set out to prove that it had succeeded, even if it meant manipulating the strength figures. 
At the peak of the practice, the division was exaggerating its numbers by more than 400 soldiers, or about 4 percent of its total, the report said. The misrepresentation ended in 1999, when the Pentagon began its own inquiry into the figures, Ms. Mauskopf's office found.
The Division of Military and Naval Affairs "has accepted the findings of the inspector general's report, and immediately initiated changes in the collection and reporting of force strength data, and the processing of soldier discharges," said Scott Sandman, spokesman for the division.
Michael McKeon, Mr. Pataki's communications director, said, "It's important to remember that the National Guard has proved itself time and time again, especially in the last nine months, when they've done a tremendous job."
Officials at the Pentagon said that they were not sure what became of the 1999 inquiry, and whether it, too, concluded that the figures were inflated. Though the Defense Department pays National Guard salaries and expenses, officials there and in Albany said it appeared that the inflation of troop strength numbers did not involve any unwarranted money from Washington.
The falsification of numbers began in late 1996 or early 1997, the inspector general's office found. In the next 2 1/2 years, there were only two times when the Guard's weekly reports to the Pentagon failed to show an increase in troop strength from the previous week.
The report says that Col. Robert Schnurr, then chief of staff of the Army National Guard, and an officer below him admitted to investigators that they had knowingly inflated the figures. Colonel Schnurr said he did so at the direction of Brig. Gen. William C. Martin, the deputy adjutant general, or second-in-command, of the Division of Military and Naval Affairs. General Martin denied the charge to investigators, and did not respond yesterday to a request to be interviewed.
Colonel Schnurr told Guard staff "to begin delaying discharges in order to ensure regular and consistent reporting of gains," Ms. Mauskopf's report says. "According to Schnurr, he took this action following a discussion with Martin in which Martin told him 'he did not want to entertain a negative week until he told me to show a negative week. I considered that to be an order.' "
"Schnurr said he believed Martin wanted only positive strength reports so he, Martin, could report that the newly implemented tuition assistance program was accomplishing its goal," the report said.
Under the program, the state offers to pay up to $3,400 a year in college tuition -- the full tuition at a State University of New York campus -- for anyone who enlists. The program has proved so popular, with about 1,900 people enrolled, that last fall it appeared there would not be enough money to cover all the students who signed up. The Legislature and the governor allocated more money to ensure that all the eligible soldiers would be covered.
Delaying Guard discharges to show growth every week quickly produced a backlog of overdue discharges that grew to 400 to 500 people, Ms. Mauskopf's office found.
The practice ended abruptly when the Guard reported a net decline of 156 soldiers for the week ended April 10, 1999. "Thereafter, net losses were reported for most weeks through May 31, 1999, as more than 550 discharges were processed," the report said. "These sudden and substantial net losses coincided with the initiation of a federal military investigation of allegations" that the Guard was deliberately delaying discharges.
New York's Army National Guard had more than 20,000 troops as recently as the late 1980's, but had about 11,000 by the time Mr. Pataki took office, and officials predicted that the decline would continue. Instead, the number has held steady around 11,000 -- even after adjusting for the manipulation of the figures -- at a time when most states' troop strength was declining.
People who enlist in the Guard generally serve one weekend a month, and a few weeks a year, though they can be called to much longer active-duty stints during a crisis. They are paid only for the days they actually serve, so the delaying of discharge papers would not have meant soldiers being paid for work they did not do, officials said.
Ms. Mauskopf, a Pataki appointee and the state's chief internal watchdog, has come under fire from Democrats for not being tougher on the administration. She is awaiting Senate action on her nomination by President Bush as United States attorney for Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and Long Island. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); MISCONDUCT (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TUITION FEES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



647 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Trying to Make the Books Fit the Earnings Forecasts
Each quarter, analysts forecast the earnings per share of the companies they cover. Shares of companies whose earnings fall short can be severely punished, so companies try to make sure they do not miss the estimate. Instead of figuring out their sales and subtracting expenses to calculate the profit, they work backward, starting with the profit investors are expecting and manipulating sales and expenses to make sure the numbers come.
 In last decade's boom, as executive pay was increasingly based on how a company's stock performed, backing in became widespread. Just how much so is only now becoming clear. Page A1. 

Mexico Changes Strategy of Plants
The closing of more than 350 foreign-owned assembly plants in Mexico is a reflection of the harsh economics of globalization. Cheap as Mexico's labor is, it is not as cheap as that in Asia or Eastern Europe. So to compete, Mexico is trying to attract factories that require more skilled workers. A3.

Consumer Confidence Slips in May
The index of consumer confidence fell to 92.4 in June from 96.9 in May. The drop was the second in three months and compares with a low of 81.8 in September. The Commerce Department reported that personal income rose 0.3 percent in May but that consumer spending dropped 0.1 percent. C5.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 26.66 points, at 9,243.26. The Dow suffered its sixth consecutive weekly decline. The Nasdaq composite index rose 5.73 points, to 1,464.93, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.82 points, to 989.82. C5.

Drug Bill Is Part of a Major Shift
A House vote to help elderly people buy prescription drugs was a major moment for American health care and politics. The vote foreshadows a deepening federal commitment to the elderly and the aging baby boom generation, as well as a significant expansion in the role of government. News Analysis. A11.

Banks Sued for S. Africa Dealings
Three banks are facing a legal challenge over their financial assistance to South Africa's former apartheid government. A lawsuit filed in Manhattan against Credit Suisse Group, Citigroup and UBS contends that the banks' financial dealings prolonged the white-only rule in violation of international law. C4.

Internet Group Approves Overhaul
The group that manages the Internet's address system has approved the outline of a plan intended to streamline operations and allow for faster decision-making. But the efforts to reorganize have sparked a debate over how the group should deal with policy questions regarding domain names. C4.

Major Central Banks Sell Yen
The Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan sold yen on behalf of the Japanese government in an effort to stem a rally that threatens a recovery in Japan. The sales only drove the yen down briefly against the dollar. C5.

In Russia, Illness or Conspiracy?
Instead of triumphantly conducting the yearly meeting of shareholders of Gazprom, the chief executive, Alexei Miller, never showed up. Mr. Miller was ill, according to a dryly worded statement. But in a country where illnesses, real or imagined, have often served as a cover for political maneuvering, the announcement raised eyebrows. C4.

2 Companies Share F.A.A. Project
Raytheon and Lockheed Martin will share two Federal Aviation Administration contracts with a value of $2.7 billion to settle a complaint over the handling of a project. The deal gives Raytheon a piece of a $1 billion project to improve software in 20 F.A.A. centers that direct planes at high altitudes. C5.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,243.26 down 26.66Nasdaq composite -- 1,463.21 up 4.0110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.81% down 0.01The euro -- $0.9918 up 0.0029The dollar -- 119.66 yen up 0.39 Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar since June 2001. Graph tracks personal income since December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); AGING (62%); DOMAIN NAMES (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (51%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (81%); CS (NYSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (91%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



648 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Her Cart's Wheels Slow to a Halt; 
A Fixture at the Fish Market May Not Make the Move

BYLINE:  By JASON BEGAY

 BODY:
This is Annie's life.
 Awake and on the waterfront, long before the ripples of the East River even begin to reflect any sign of the sun. She is hunched over a red, wire-frame shopping cart yelling at the fish market workers who trickle around her to buy newspapers, socks, underwear, bandannas and -- Annie's biggest seller, much to her regret -- cigarettes. 
 "Don't smoke," she yells out, as she throws a book of matches on a box. 
Every morning for half a century, Annie has walked in the morning dark, selling to the fish-lugging men at the Fulton Fish Market. The market is the largest of its kind nationwide, with 59 wholesalers selling hundreds of thousands of pounds of seafood every week. 
But Annie's life, as she has known it for so long, will be changing in the next two years. The market is set to relocate to Hunt's Point in the Bronx, into a large indoor refrigerated facility. As it stands now, much of the market consists of rows of iced boxes stacked neatly across the parking lots along both sides of South Street, violating federal regulations about selling seafood outdoors.
"Look at this," said Robert Smith, vice president for Arrow Seafood, with slight revulsion. "Do you sell food anywhere in the northern hemisphere out on the street?"
Construction has already begun on a new, $85 million, 400,000-square-foot indoor facility at Hunt's Point. Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the new building should be complete in late 2004 and that all 59 wholesalers have already staked a lease plan. The fish market, which will then be known as the Fulton Fish Market at Hunt's Point, will be bright and hygienic.
But Annie may not be there. She says she may be too old to travel every day to the Bronx from her apartment in the East Village. How old is too old? Sorry, she won't give her age, though she hints that she might be in her late 70's. Annie, also called Shopping Bag Annie, or South Street Annie, is reticent about other details: no last names, no current pictures (not her face, anyway).
"That's not important," she said, blunt and solid. "Let them guess."
But it's obvious that she has been at the Fulton Fish Market longer than most of its current employees. Ask anyone, and they will say that Annie was there when they started: Joe (Tuna) Centrone, 23 years ago; Bobby (Tuna) DiGregorio, from the early 80's; Steve (Coffee), who preferred not to give his last name, despite his "better than 20 years" there; and Frank Fogliano of Fair Fish Company, who remembers seeing her at the market in 1957.
The fish workers, almost entirely men, are loud, often spewing obscenities. Annie can be just as loud and just as vulgar.
"Have you ever seen anyone like me?" she asked one morning recently. "Even I'm old, they still respond to me. They respond to a hug, or a kiss, or a joke. So I make jokes."
In its nighttime version, the four blocks of bricks and asphalt on South Street are crowded with vans, forklifts and merchants. It's hard to imagine the thick, metallic smell of fish that saturates the wet street. It is especially hard to imagine during the hours when the street, which intersects the South Street Seaport, is a tourist haven for bright restaurants, bars and clothing stores.
"Look at this place," Annie said one morning, as fishmongers, some with knives, others with hooks over their shoulders, crowded the four blocks pushing handcarts. "It's so full of life." 
There was a young journeyman digging through her cart who looked at Annie. He wouldn't give his name, but he is one of the few of the fishmongers willing to admit that this predawn society is bound for the Bronx. Most are like Mr. Smith and Joe Tuna, who doubt that the move will happen in their lifetimes. 
"It's not going to be the same at Hunt's Point," the journeyman said. 
Annie, appalled at the notion, replied, "Get out of here with that." 
If she is in a reflective mood, Annie will consider the notion of a displaced fish market. "I'm getting old," she said. "To tell the truth, I might not be around." She paused. "In the best case scenario, I would go with them."
Age and fatigue are burdens for her. But when Annie laughs, or cracks a lewd joke or screams an angry reminder of the money owed her, she is without age. "You become what you act like," she said. "If you're vibrant, you become youthful. There's no age as far as the boys are concerned."
Annie has a simple schedule, beginning about 4 a.m. when her bus drops her near the market. She will sit at Arrow Seafood to talk with Joe Tuna and Steve Coffee, who sells coffee and pastries. Around 5:30 a.m., Annie starts her first round down both sides of the market's two-block stretch.
Her greeting is quick and high-pitched: "Woohoo!"
She tries to acknowledge everyone, if not by name then by national origin. "All nationalities work here," she said, pointing out a Portuguese immigrant pushing a handcart; he had just received his citizenship document. "It's wonderful," she said.
Annie buys a stack of about 50 copies of the The Daily News and The New York Post about 6:30 a.m. and sells them for $1 each. She leaves the market around 8 a.m. By this time she is usually exhausted.
Annie makes enough in sales to regularly send money to both her daughters in California. She has no pension beyond Social Security. All she has, she said, is "a good feeling I'm going to survive."
She actually has more than that.
In 1999, Joe Tuna and Steve Coffee collected a retirement fund for Annie, raising more than $3,000, an amount that Annie recalled with wide eyes and a loud can-you-believe-that tone. She moved to Los Angeles.
But retirement didn't take. "You don't know how it is to lay there when you're retired, like an old dog," she said. "Here, I'm young. They all like me." Nine months after she left, Annie was on a plane back to New York on a ticket she says was bought by her fish market friends. 
After Sept. 11, the market moved out of the red zone to Hunt's Point. Two weeks passed. Annie's customers, her friends, were still on the wrong side of the East River. "I waited and waited, they never came back," she said. "So I went to them." She took a cab to Hunt's Point, paying $20 a day. They said: "Annie's here. Now the Fish Market is complete."
There is a picture hanging in a plastic frame in the office of Fair Fish Company that Annie says was taken sometime in the 1940's during a three-month bicycle tip from New York to Fairbanks, Alaska. It is a color photocopy, enlarged from a faded, discolored wallet-size image. The young woman is running barefoot on the dirt road that would become the Alcan Highway from British Columbia into Alaska.
"People look at that picture and can't believe it's her," said Frank Fogliano, who sits in that office. "She's an angel."
Joe Tuna, a thick, menacingly quiet salesman, has no qualms calling Annie an "an angel in rags." 
"Do you believe in angels?" he asked. "Do you think an angel is going to be dressed in a three-piece Armani suit?"
Joe Tuna chewed on his cigar and sharpened his pencil with a knife. "You never know," he added. "You just never know."

GRAPHIC: Photos: For half a century, Annie has been selling her wares from a cart at the Fulton Fish Market. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1); A photograph in the office of Fair Fish Company that Shopping Bag Annie says was taken of her during a trip to Alaska in the 1940's. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (89%); RELOCATIONS (72%); REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



649 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Pentagon Pushes to Renew Aid to Indonesia's Army
The Pentagon is pressing hard to resume assistance to the Indonesian military in an effort to re-establish American influence in the world's most populous Muslim nation. Washington has kept its distance from the Indonesian Army for nearly a decade because of human rights abuses. A1

Israeli Action in Hebron
The Israeli military leveled a Palestinian Authority building in an bid to end a four-day standoff with 15 Palestinian militants thought to be inside. Earlier, a former Palestinian minister went inside to negotiate but emerged saying he had found no one. A6

Bid to Ease Russian Draft Law
The lower house of Parliament passed legislation that would offer some young Russian men an alternative to the military draft, but only under conditions that liberals and advocates of military reform have called onerous and possibly dangerous. A7

Firm U.S. Stand Against Court
The United States has refused to budge in its demand to exempt American peacekeepers from the jurisdiction of a new International Criminal Court, raising the possibility that the United Nations mandate for the international forces in Bosnia will expire at midnight tomorrow. A6

Search for Fighters in Pakistan
Pakistani troops combed the hills near the Afghan border, searching for suspected Qaeda fighters who killed 10 soldiers this week. Residents near the battlefield said the fighters had fled to Afghanistan. A7

Explosion in Afghanistan
At least 19 people were killed and dozens were injured by an explosion at an ammunition dump in the border town of Spinbaldak. The local Afghan commander said a rocket attack was responsible. A7

Close of Americas Talks
The presidents of Mexico and Central America reiterated a commitment to Plan Puebla-Panama, a regional plan intended to stimulate their struggling economies, as they ended a two-day meeting in Yucatan. A3

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A8-13

U.S. Sets New Policy On Using Anthrax Vaccine
The Bush administration announced a new anthrax vaccination policy, including plans to continue vaccinating some military personnel and to stockpile for civilian use a large portion of all the anthrax vaccine being produced for the Pentagon. A1

Closed Hearings, for Now
The Supreme Court allowed secret deportation hearings for people arrested after Sept. 11 to continue while the government appealed a judge's order to open the hearings. A10

Weighing Immigrants' Rights
The Supreme Court agreed to decide a question on the rights of immigrants facing deportation proceedings under the strict rules of the 1996 revision of immigration law. The court will also hear arguments on Maine's effort to force drug makers to reduce their prices, and on doctors' access as providers to H.M.O.'s. A10

Amtrak Agrees to Loan Terms
Amtrak agreed to the Bush administration's terms for a $100 million loan that would avert an immediate shutdown, promising to find $100 million in cuts from next year's budget. A13

Bush to Step Aside Briefly
President Bush said he would transfer the powers of the presidency to Vice President Dick Cheney for a short time today while Mr. Bush is sedated for a colonoscopy. A1

Manson Follower Denied Parole
Leslie Van Houten, 52, was denied parole for the 14th time, despite a California judge's admonishment to the parole board that it must consider her 30-year model-prisoner record and not just her role in the Manson family's cult killings of Rosemary and Leno LaBianca in 1969. A8

A Return to Mormon Roots
Mormon worshipers gathered to dedicate a new limestone temple in Nauvoo, Ill., a river town their ancestors fled 156 years ago under religious persecution, leaving behind their temple, which arsonists later burned. A8

Religion Journal A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Federal Aid Agency Broadens 9/11 Pool
The Federal Emergency Management Agency said it was changing eligibility criteria to allow aid to many more people who suffered economic hardship as a result of Sept. 11. The agency has been criticized for missteps and delays in dispensing aid. A1

Radiation Detectors Deployed
The police commissioner said radiation detectors would be installed outside several city buildings as part of the department's measures to guard against potential terrorism. B1

City Softens on Recycling Rules
The Bloomberg administration is stepping back from a policy of leaving improperly sorted trash on the streets while people adjust to major changes in recycling that take on Monday. B1

Guard Rolls Were Inflated
New York State systematically inflated troop strength figures for its Army National Guard in the late 1990's in a bid to make recruitment efforts appear more successful. B1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-17

EDUCATION

Vouchers' New York Hurdles
Supporters and opponents say there is strong language in the state Constitution prohibiting government aid -- direct or indirect -- to religious education. And New York City's powerful teachers' union opposes vouchers. B1

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES C18

I. W. Burnham II
A financier whose surname has been on the front door of a Wall Street firm since the Depression, he was 93. C18

Choi Hong Hi
The former South Korean general, acknowledged as the founder of the martial art tae kwon do, was 83. C18

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Xerox Restates Its Restatement
Xerox, which had agreed in an S.E.C. settlement to reclassify about $2 billion in revenue, said the figure would be $6.4 billion. The move lowers revenue and profits in 1997, 1998 and 1999 and raises them in 2000 and 2001. C1

WorldCom May Be on the Block
WorldCom's bankers are said to be contacting investors and competitors to gauge interest in their buying major pieces of the embattled telecommunications company and to assess what those pieces might be worth. C1

WorldCom's downfall is swelling the exodus of workers from the telecommunications industry, which has accounted for more than one of every 10 jobs lost since March 2001. C1

Martha Stewart Inquiry's Focus
The S.E.C. inquiry into Martha Stewart's sale of ImClone shares in December centers on what her stockbroker may have told her just before the stock was sold, a lawyer said. C1

No World Cup Bonanza
The World Cup, the world's most heavily watched sporting event, which concludes in Japan tomorrow, has not helped reinvigorate the Japanese economy, as backers had hoped. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The politics of embarrassment; closing the door to public scrutiny; Enron's Connecticut connection; full justice for Ulster killings.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B15
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); VACCINES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); ANTHRAX (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); DEPORTATION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); JUDGES (67%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (66%); ARRESTS (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); APPEALS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); PANAMA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



650 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dismal Second Quarter Ends With Day of Mixed Results

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a terrible quarter with a whimper yesterday when shares retreated from a solid advance early in the day and ended the session mixed. Blue chips pulled back, while technology shares posted a slim gain. 
 Although stocks gave up gains, the market showed some resilience, having risen despite news of more accounting problems, this time at Xerox. 
 "We know there are problems in some corporations in America; so, this is more bad news, but not new bad news," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. 
Investors also looked past a decline in consumer spending for May, largely because it was a smaller-than-expected decrease. 
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 26.66 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 9,243.26. 
The broader market was mixed. The Nasdaq composite index rose 4.01 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,463.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.82 point, to 989.82. 
The Nasdaq and S.& P. managed to break their five-week losing streaks.
But analysts said the gains were largely because of bargain hunting. Investors were tempted by lower prices, but they were also wary of committing to the market given the accounting woes and uncertain outlook for earnings. 
Ned Riley, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors, also attributed the modest advances to technical factors like window dressing, the end-of-quarter strategy of institutional investors who buy shares to make their portfolios look more impressive in reports to shareholders. 
But it is impossible to disguise what was a dismal second quarter, with stocks pummeled by bleak earnings prospects, fears of terrorism and a series of revelations about improper accounting. The indexes suffered double-digit percentage drops with the Nasdaq falling 20.7 percent. The S.& P. had a loss of 13.7 percent; the Dow, 11.2 percent. 
Yesterday the market shrugged off news that Xerox had improperly recorded $3 billion in revenue from 1997 through 2000, and that it would restate as much as $1.9 billion in earnings for those years. 
While shares of Xerox fell $1.03, to $6.97, analysts say accounting problems have already been factored into the market's prices after a string of disclosures beginning with Enron's collapse in December and including a $3.8 billion disclosure this week at WorldCom. 
Xerox's problems are also not surprising. In April, the Securities and Exchange Commission said accounting improprieties at Xerox increased profits by $1.5 billion from 1997 through 2000. Xerox is paying a $10 million penalty. 
Among yesterday's winners, shares in General Motors rose $1.95, to $53.45, recouping the $1.58 it lost Thursday on rumors, denied by G.M., of irregular accounting. 
Shares of Electronic Data Systems fell 15 cents, to $37.15, adding to losses from Thursday on worries about its exposure to WorldCom, which is a customer. 
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasuries rose slightly yesterday as investors sought the safety of government debt.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 2/32, to 100 16/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.81 percent from 4.82 percent on Thursday. 
The 30-year bond rose 1/32, to 98 1/32. Its yield was unchanged at 5.51 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.817
High Yield: 2.970%
Low Yield: 2.839%
Median Yield: 2.900%
Accepted at low price: 69%
Total applied for: $42,484,491
Accepted: $34,046,543
Noncompetitive: $1,142,627
Interest set at: 2 7/8

The 2-year notes mature June 30, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); INTEREST RATES (59%); TERRORISM (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (71%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



651 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Hosts' Big Hopes Are Let Down By World Cup

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 28 

 BODY:
As the World Cup, the world's most heavily watched sporting event, closes Sunday hopes that it would help reinvigorate the Japanese economy failed to come true.
 There were corporate and government winners and losers, of course. Among the winners were agile companies with enough goods on hand to ride a fad. As Japan's team inspired the nation, for instance, lines 100 yards long formed at a Tokyo sporting goods store stocked with the coveted authentic Japan team shirts, with fans desperate to surrender $125 for an Adidas team shirt. 
 After selling more than 600,000 team jerseys and 1.5 million soccer balls, Christophe Bezu, the president of Adidas Japan, forecast that the World Cup was propelling Japan into second place, after the United States, as a sporting goods market for the German company. "This has been a very successful World Cup," he said. 
Among big sponsors, Yahoo recorded more than a billion visits to its Web site and MasterCard International Inc. expects to win two million new credit card customers, many carrying cards with the image of Pele doing his famous bicycle kick.
"We get a card in their wallet that might not be there otherwise," said John Stuart, MasterCard's senior vice president for global sponsorship.
Losers were companies and government officials that put too much stock in pie-in-the-sky estimates that the World Cup would generate $9 billion worth of economic activity for Korea and $26 billion for Japan, the co-hosts.
Economists from outside the region say that given the economic activity displaced by the World Cup and the stadium construction bills, the additional economic benefit could be close to zero, or even negative.
"Hosting major events is one of the most inefficient ways of stimulating an economy," said Stefan A. Szymanski, a sports economics professor at the Imperial College of Management in London. 
"The impact of these kinds of events will not show up, and have never shown up in the past," he said.
Hotels in Yokohama, the site of the final on Sunday, were blindsided in late April by cancellations of about 40,000 hotel rooms by a World Cup coordinating company. By one count, half a million World Cup-related hotel reservations were made and canceled in the months before the games, and some hotels managed to maintain occupancy levels only by offering steep discounts.
"I can imagine the countries are disappointed by the lack of foreign visitors," Michel Zen-Ruffinen, general secretary of FIFA, the international organizing body, told reporters today. (Mr. Zen-Ruffinen, who is leaving his post July 4 after clashing with Joseph S. Blatter, the head of FIFA, has said that FIFA itself could lose as much as $82 million by staging the World Cup.)
A few days before the May 31 kickoff in Seoul, China placed financial and bureaucratic obstacles on Chinese fans. The moves were meant to prevent the embarrassment of having Chinese tourists overstay their visas, but also had the effect of cutting the number visiting Korea to one-quarter of the original estimate of 50,000. One Korean city, Kwangju, found itself paying for platoons of idle Chinese interpreters and for Chinese opera singers playing to empty chairs.
When the numbers are added up, South Korea may have received only 450,000 foreign visitors in June, near last June's level but about a third less than the 640,000 expected. Despite the huge rallies of millions of soccer fans in Seoul, downtown hotel occupancies and duty-free store sales were down about 20 percent from normal.
Many foreign fans were scared away by the distance and the cost.
"More Ecuadorians went to the World Cup in '94 in the U.S., even though our team wasn't even in it," said Marcello Cruz, a car dealer from Quito who came to Japan with his family to see Ecuador play. "For Japan, it was fear of the language, fear of the cost. We go two blocks in a taxi in Tokyo and it is $5."
The dearth of foreigners resulted in rows of empty seats at many early games. At least 94 percent of the 3.15 million seats were sold, but many were sold to foreign soccer associations that failed to find fans who wanted to travel to Korea or Japan, Mr. Zen-Ruffinen said.
Still, the tournament did have some big effects on discretionary spending. Domino's Pizza Japan recorded some of its busiest days of the year on Japan game days. The Hite Brewery Company of Korea reported a 30 percent jump in sales of bottled beer and a 70 percent jump in sales of kegs in June.
But the Skylark Company, Japan's largest family restaurant chain, reported a 20 percent drop in sales.
"The negative impacts are that people sat home and watched TV rather than going out shopping, going to Disneyland, or going to restaurants," said Garry Evans, a chief strategist for HSBC Securities (Japan) Ltd.
Sales of overseas tours in both countries were down, but sales of DVD players, camcorders and high-definition TV's and the number of cable TV hookups soared.
The World Cup proved, once again, to be a huge money-making enterprise for television. Cutting into samurai dramas and soap operas, the World Cup consistently drew huge audiences in Japan.
In both Japan and Korea, the big audiences were attributed to the strong performance of both teams and the unexpected drama of teams from small countries dethroning the major soccer powers. In China, China Central Television has enjoyed such high audiences and such large commercial support that it has almost recouped the $24 million it paid for the rights to broadcast this year's World Cup and the 2006 World Cup.
Although Japan has received a psychological boost by seeing its players win contests on a worldwide playing field, South Korea probably benefited more from being a host country as the games helped bring a marked increase in global awareness of Korea's new economic and technological prowess.
Visitors who funneled through Seoul's $5 billion airport passed an array of 103 high-definition televisions made in Korea and rental counters offering the latest generation of Korean-made cellphones. Then they checked into hotels most likely equipped with the kind of broadband Internet service that is now in 54 percent of the country's households.
To capitalize on the world's new awareness of Korea, later this year President Kim Dae Jung plans to send trade and investment missions to Europe, Africa and the Americas.
"Japan is big enough that it does not need branding," Andy Xie, chief Asia economist for Morgan Stanley Ltd., said from Hong Kong. "But Korea can take advantage of the good vibes, showing that Korea is embracing globalization; showing international businesspeople that maybe the time is right to come over, take a look, do business."
From London, Mr. Szymanski, the sports economic professor, agreed, adding that countries should stop inventing economic benefits from sporting events, and simply treat them as expenses, or investments, in national promotion.
That may be some solace to the taxpayers who are paying for the new stadiums -- $4.6 billion in Japan and $2.7 billion in South Korea. By some estimates, only 2 of Japan's 10 World Cup stadiums will be economically viable in the future. "They are fantastic stadiums, built for 45,000 people, that are in the middle of nowhere, in the midst of rice paddies," Mr. Evans of HSBC said. 
"They are fantastic stadiums, but real white elephants."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adidas sold more than 600,000 team jerseys and 1.5 million soccer balls during the World Cup. (Stuart Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times)(pg. C4); Japanese shoppers flocked to the Sunwalk shopping mall in Tokyo to buy official souvenirs, team shirts and accessories as Japan's team inspired the nation. (Stuart Isett/Gamma, for The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SOCCER (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (76%); TRENDS (74%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); WEB SITES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (92%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%)

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) JAPAN (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



652 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: THE WORK FORCE; 
Job Cuts Take Heavy Toll on Telecom Industry

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
WorldCom's downfall is swelling the exodus of workers from the telecommunications industry, which alone has accounted for more than one out of every 10 jobs lost in the United States since the recession began in March last year.
 Most of this rapid job shrinkage in telecommunications has come through layoffs, buyouts and forced retirements. Indeed, telecommunications companies have exceeded any other industry in the number of publicly announced job cuts over the last 18 months. 
 The cuts have come from the dozens of companies that build and operate the nation's networks for telephone service, cable television, the Internet, e-mail and data transmission. Having wildly overexpanded in the 1990's, the companies have been rushing to shrink ever since, serving as a drag on the economic recovery. 
"They have to cut another 10 percent of their employees to get down to where they should be," said Kenneth McGee, a telecommunications expert at Gartner, the research firm. "And in the next economic expansion they won't need those people back." 
Not all job losses are prominently announced, of course. In total, the nation has lost 1.5 million jobs since the recession began in March of last year, with the telecommunications industry contributing 167,000 to that loss through April, according to the latest industry breakdown from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Employment is so important to well-being that some economists are reluctant to declare a new expansion firmly under way until a revival in the job market is clearly happening.
While telecommunications companies continue to eliminate jobs, many other industries appear to have stopped doing so. Since April, national employment has even begun to grow a bit, although so far adding back only 40,000 jobs.
"I have not heard the phrase jobless recovery applied yet to our current experience but it is very much to the point," said Robert Hall, a Stanford economist and the chairman of the committee of economists that designates when recessions and recoveries begin and end. "We have regained almost none of the lost jobs; we are still very stalled." 
This time the rehiring and job creation must take place without help from telecommunications companies, industry executives insist. The jobs that are being eliminated in the industry will not have to be recreated, they say. Once the downsizing is over, the industry may level off at fewer than 1.2 million employees. Some of the lost jobs represented overstaffing, even in good times, to build more capacity into wireless and fiber optic networks than the nation will be able to use for a long time, said Scott Cleland, a telecommunications expert and chief executive of the Precursor Group, an investment research firm.
"Everyone overbuilt," he said, "and telecom companies will not be spending appreciably for expansion for years to come."
Other jobs are being lost to labor- saving technology, many in the industry argue, and to changes in the way the companies now operate, given that cellphones are cutting into the more labor-intensive regular phone service. Moreover, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 has forced the Baby Bells to share their local phone monopolies with "resellers" that lease circuits at wholesale prices from the Bells and resell them to households and companies.
"In some small markets, we have lost 50 percent of our customers," Jeff Battcher, a BellSouth executive, said.
If past recoveries are a guide, the men and women who have lost their jobs in telecommunications will eventually find work in other industries. But that is not happening quickly for Roy Abrahamsen, a technician at an AT&T maintenance center at 33 Thomas Street in Manhattan -- until that center was closed in March.
Told to choose between a buyout package or a transfer to an office in White Plains, Mr. Abrahamsen, 56 and a Brooklyn resident, took the buyout.
That was partly to avoid the two-hour commute versus his previous 35 minutes, Mr. Abrahamsen said, and partly out of fear that AT&T would soon close the White Plains office, laying him off without a buyout. Now he is looking for a job at places like Home Depot, hoping that a skill in carpentry will help him recover some of the $57,000 in salary that he lost. As part of the buyout, AT&T is continuing his health insurance and is paying him the $22,000-a-year pension that he normally would have received in his 60's.
"I miss the routines of work very much," he said. "I wake up at the same time every morning, and I cannot always fill my days. It sounds strange but I enjoyed working and I enjoyed my job."
Until WorldCom came along with its announcement this week that it would eliminate 17,000 jobs on top of the 6,000 it cut last year -- drastically shrinking a work force that totaled 85,000 in January -- few companies in the telecommunications industry had drawn more attention for job shedding than AT&T. Since the beginning of 2001, it has announced more than 20,000 cuts, or roughly 16 percent of its job slots.
But while AT&T cites efficiency gains through technology as a main reason for its actions, Mr. Abrahamsen says that technology is only part of the explanation for consolidating the Thomas Street maintenance center, where he worked, with a similar operation in White Plains. 
Using a computer, he performed remote repairs on telephone lines and data circuits leased to business customers -- American Express and Avis, for example -- or he pinpointed the trouble so others could make the repair. The staff doing this maintenance by computer had dwindled since early last year from 70 to 60. Fifty of the 60 made the transfer. 
"With fewer people, the time needed to make a repair grew longer," Mr. Abrahamsen said. "There was not a specific moment when this happened or a directive, but little by little it happened. Customer service declined." 
From January through May, job- cut announcements in the telecommunications industry reached 135,385, or nearly 29 percent of all such announcements, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a consulting firm that tracks this data. That was up from 102,366 in the same period last year.
The downsizing varies. Faced with a sharp dropoff in orders, Lucent Technologies, the manufacturer of switches and other communications equipment, has in effect sold three major factories to independent "contract manufacturers," transferring many of its factory workers in the bargain. Lucent now buys from the contractors only the amount of equipment that it can sell. The Lucent payroll has shrunk to 56,000 from 62,000 on Jan. 1. 
"We anticipate that by the end of September, it will be close to 50,000," said Mary Ward, a Lucent spokeswoman. 
BellSouth has announced that 4,000 to 5,000 jobs will be eliminated this year from its payroll of 85,740, which in turn has declined from 97,000 a year ago. "We feel we will then be at the right number of people to handle a quick and fast economic recovery," Mr. Battcher said.
Beyond the competition from resellers, he lists some other reasons the cutbacks are likely to be long term. Cellphones, for example, are less labor intensive than standard telephones and rather than order another phone line for a teenager's bedroom, many parents are giving their children cellphones. And while demand is huge for high-speed Internet D.S.L. service, the labor requirement is small. 
"We have self-install," Mr. Battcher said. "A customer asks for D.S.L. and we can mail them out a do-it-yourself disc. It is simple for them and simple for us, and it saves us money."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Saturday with an article about the loss of jobs in the telecommunications industry referred imprecisely to a protest by employees at Verizon Communications in late May. They were demonstrating against the company's declaration that it could lay off employees as a last resort, not an announcement of actual layoffs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gamaliel Thomas packed up yesterday after being laid off by WorldCom in Iowa City. (Associated Press)(pg. C2); Verizon workers in New York took to the streets in May to protest the company's announcement of layoffs. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "After the Boom . . . the Bust"Leading telecommunications companies, forced to cut back after an over-expansion that has left the industry wallowing in excess capacity, have eliminated tens of thousands of jobs in recent years. Employment at the telephone companiesEmployees in thousands Lucent2000 -- 106.02001 -- 77.02002 -- 50.0*2000-2002 CHANGE -- 52.8 WorldCom2000 -- 86.12001 -- 85.02002 -- 68.0*2000-2002 CHANGE -- 21.0 AT&T2000 -- 136.82001 -- 117.82002 -- 114.02000-2002 CHANGE -- 16.7 Qwest Communications2000 -- 67.02001 -- 62.02002 -- 57.02000-2002 CHANGE -- 14.9 SBC Communications2000 -- 220.12001 -- 193.42002 -- 189.02000-2002 CHANGE -- 14.1 Sprint2000 -- 84.12001 -- 83.72002 -- 78.02000-2002 CHANGE -- 7.3 BellSouth2000 -- 92.22001 -- 87.92002 -- 85.72000-2002 CHANGE -- 7.0 Verizon2000 -- 263.02001 -- 247.02002 -- 248.02000-2002 CHANGE -- 5.7 *Based on most recent layoff announcements.(Sources: Company reports)(pg. C1) Graph: "Fewer Phone Workers"WorldCom's new layoffs are only the latest in a string of announcements of job cuts from the industry every month since the beginning of last year. Graph tracks Layoffs in the telecommunications industry since Jan., 2000.(Sources: Challenger, Gray & Christmas)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (96%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); STATISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



653 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: An Air of Inevitability 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
When the House voted early today to help elderly people buy prescription medicines, it was a major moment in the history of American health care and politics. The vote foreshadows a deepening federal commitment to the elderly and the aging baby boom generation, as well as a significant expansion in the role of government.
 Both parties laid claim to the title of being the best protectors of the elderly. Republicans hope to impose fiscal discipline on the proposed new program, but that will not be easy. 
 The Republican bill, to add drug benefits to Medicare, was passed by a vote of 221 to 208 at 2:30 a.m. after five and a half hours of debate.
Conventional wisdom holds that the bill is going nowhere this year and that the debate was just politics, an effort by Republicans to secure political cover in the November elections as Democrats exploit the issue in a bid to regain control of the House.
Predictions of an impasse may be borne out. Asked today about prospects for enacting Medicare drug legislation this year, Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota and the majority leader, said, "The odds are against us."
But the House debate suggested that expansion of Medicare to cover prescription drugs was becoming inevitable. Democrats were eager to pour $800 billion to $1 trillion more into Medicare over the next decade.
The move to expand Medicare seems inconsistent with the conservative Republican philosophy of limited government. But most Republicans voted enthusiastically for a $320 billion prescription drug program -- much bigger than the one they pushed through the House on June 28, 2000. Reviled by Democrats as cheapskates, House Republicans boasted -- yes, boasted -- that they were creating a new entitlement program.
The cost of adding drug benefits to Medicare rises each year Congress defers action. Public expectations, drug prices and the number of prescriptions dispensed to the elderly are continually increasing.
Pharmaceuticals, one of the most promising tools of modern medicine, prolong life and improve its quality. A huge increase in federal spending on biomedical research, combined with investment by drug and biotechnology companies, is producing new drugs to treat cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's, osteoporosis, arthritis and other diseases of aging.
Medicare would help pay for these drugs under all the major Republican and Democratic proposals pending in Congress.
Congressional decisions will affect the economy because drug companies, by their own account, have been one of the nation's most innovative and profitable industries. Elderly people account for more than one-third of prescription drugs sold in the United States.
Carl B. Feldbaum, president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group, said: "In the context of dismal financial markets, today's vote was a positive development. The House and Senate are unlikely to agree this year, but eventually some legislation will have to pass because of pressure from seniors for relief. 
"That prospect should help restore the confidence of investors who want to know how biotech products, many of them still in development, will be reimbursed."
Medicare, the federal health insurance program for 40 million elderly and disabled people, generally does not cover outpatient drugs. One-third of beneficiaries have no coverage for such costs. Others have spotty or unreliable coverage. So there is almost surely pent-up demand, or unmet need.
In analyzing the House bill this week, the Congressional Budget Office said, "Adding or expanding insurance coverage for prescription drugs is expected to increase both the use and price of drugs."
With House action completed, the focus shifts now to the Senate, where Mr. Daschle plans to call up a Democratic bill for floor debate next month. The debate will be not just about money, how much to spend on drug benefits, but also about the proper role of government in managing benefits and controlling costs.
Mr. Daschle did not mince words in assessing the House measure today. "The bill is a terrible bill," he said. "It's a sham. It is awful." The bill, he asserted, "was written by drug companies and will be administered by insurance companies."
In providing drug benefits, Republicans are determined to avoid what they consider the mistakes of Medicare's traditional fee-for-service program, which regulates the prices paid for heart surgery, bedpans, wheelchairs and other coverages. 
Under the House bill, the government would pay subsidies to insurance companies to encourage them to provide drug coverage for the elderly. Democrats say drug benefits are too important to be left to the vagaries of the insurance market.
Representative Jay Inslee, Democrat of Washington, said the Republican plan was "a big gamble" because "no insurance companies exist on the face of this planet today to provide the service." Representative Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said, "The Republican bill begins the process of privatizing Medicare."
Republicans say insurance companies and market forces can control costs better than the government. 
The House Republican bill says the government may not set drug prices or "interfere in any way with negotiations" between insurers and drug manufacturers or suppliers. That ban could fade with time, just like a section of the original 1965 Medicare law, which said the federal government must not "exercise any supervision or control over the practice of medicine or the manner in which medical services are provided."
Democrats and some Republicans say it is absurd for the government to establish a program of benefits without taking steps to limit drug costs. Without such limits, they say, the program will be unsustainable.
Senate Democrats will push two plans House Republican leaders avoided. One would alter patent laws, making it easier for low-cost generic drugs to compete with brand-name medicines. The other would allow pharmacists and wholesalers to import drugs from Canada and Europe, where prices are held down by government regulation. Both ideas are anathema to brand-name drug makers.
Clearly, Mr. Daschle can engineer votes that help Democrats running for Congress this year. Whether he can get a bill through the Senate is unclear. He has not divulged his strategy even to other Democratic senators. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); MEDICARE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (89%); AGING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CANCER (75%); DRUG PRICES (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); OSTEOPOROSIS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (63%); ONCOLOGY (61%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); DRUG POLICY (55%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (58%) PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



654 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: German Leader Hopes Soccer Will Lift His Standing in Polls 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 28 

 BODY:
Although the German election is still nearly three months away, there is anxiety in the camp of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, whose Social Democrats continue to trail their conservative opponents, led by Edmund Stoiber, in the polls.
 Mr. Schroder, renowned as a good campaigner with sure populist instincts, has seized on Germany's unexpectedly good showing in the World Cup soccer championships to try to associate himself with the team's grit and success. John V. Lindsay did much the same with the "Miracle Mets" in 1969, riding New Yorkers' euphoria about the Mets' winning the World Series that year to a surprising re-election as mayor. 
 Mr. Schroder hitched a ride for himself to Japan today, after the Group of 8 summit meeting in Canada, on the official plane of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, to see the Germans play Brazil in the final match on Sunday in Yokohama.
The German government has also chartered a plane to take senior leaders and politicians to the championship match. 
Not to be outdone, Mr. Stoiber is going, too, and then returning to Germany with the team. That brought some sniffs from one of Mr. Schroder's spokesmen, Bela Anda, who said, "The chancellor firmly believes that the team has earned the right to celebrate on its own and that politicians should keep their distance."
Mr. Stoiber, the candidate of the Christian Democratic Union and Christian Social Union, emphasized that he was traveling at his own expense.
The newspaper Handelsblatt had the inevitable cartoon showing the two candidates, in German soccer uniforms, racing from an airplane. The candidates are bound to overshadow President Johannes Rau, Germany's official representative, who had been scheduled to attend because Germany will be the host of the next World Cup, in 2006.
But the soccer pitch is not the only current battleground. Mr. Schroder is trying to take the initiative on more substantive issues, too, in a campaign that so far centers on unemployment and economic competence -- areas where Mr. Stoiber, however stiff, is thought to have the advantage.
Mr. Schroder has sought to counter the stain of having four million people unemployed by embracing an official commission on labor-market reform -- and ensuring that its findings were publicized even before their scheduled publication in mid-August.
The commission is run by Peter Hartz, personnel director of Volkswagen, a company on whose board Mr. Schroder used to sit. As leaked and then discussed by Mr. Hartz in interviews, the proposals are advertised as being able to cut unemployment by half in three years and the cost of unemployment benefits by two-thirds.
The central idea is to use the government's regional employment offices as employers, functioning as agencies for temporary workers. Anyone who remains unemployed after looking for a job for six months would work for the employment office, subject to assignment for short-term labor, or lose benefits.
The commission also wants to simplify the payment of unemployment benefits and reduce them for the long-term unemployed, proposals that have generated some protest. 
Mr. Schroder praised the proposals in general, saying, "This is a great chance to bring movement to the German labor market without a risk to social cohesion."
But he was careful not to endorse the whole report, saying he opposed cutting unemployment benefits. He needs the support of labor unions, which have been striking for pay increases beyond inflation levels.
"This is clearly a public relations campaign coming out of the chancellor's office to try to regain the initiative on labor issues," said Peter Losche, a political scientist at Gottingen University. "Schroder is trying to go on the offensive and show voters that he has a concept to reduce unemployment." 
But the mood in the chancellor's office, Mr. Losche said, is "graying and pessimistic, and I think they've made a number of mistakes." The worst, he said, was to misjudge Mr. Stoiber. "They ridiculously thought he would go to the right instead of doing the sensible thing, moving to the center."
Mr. Stoiber, who favors deregulation, called the promise to halve unemployment in three years "the biggest bluff there is," while endorsing the thrust of the proposals. 
Mr. Stoiber sought to take advantage of another report, issued by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, that ranked the German states in terms of education programs, which come under state jurisdiction. The state he runs, Bavaria, came first, followed by another conservative-run state, Baden-Wurttemberg. Saxony and Thuringia, two eastern states run by the conservatives, also did well. Northern states, generally run by the Social Democrats, did not.
For Mr. Losche, the school report was not so important. The election remains to be won, he said. But with Mr. Stoiber's conservatives still keeping a lead of five to seven percentage points in the polls, he said that Chancellor Schroder "cannot simply sit back and wait for Stoiber to make big mistakes" or depend on his winning personality in television debates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi bid farewell to the Group of 8 before flying to Japan for the World Cup final. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SOCCER (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (61%) ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (83%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (54%); CHRISTIAN SOCIAL UNION (54%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (92%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (99%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%) GERMANY; BRAZIL; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



655 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Looking for X In the Algebra Of Leadership; 
Is Impact the Criterion or Charisma? Experts Ransack Leaders' Psyches

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN 

 BODY:
Sigmund Freud may have been the first to put an American president on the couch. He collaborated on a psychoanalytic study of Woodrow Wilson with an American diplomat, William C. Bullitt. (The book, which made a case for Wilson's "Christ Complex," was deemed such an embarrassment when it was finally published in 1967, however, that some critics doubted whether Freud had all that much to do with the project.)
 Now Dr. Arnold M. Ludwig, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at the University of Kentucky, has come along with his "Political Greatness Scale" -- the latest in a long line of scholarly attempts to measure political leadership with the cool objectivity of science. 
 Dr. Ludwig devoted 18 years of research to the effort. He says his study of 377 rulers from the last 100 years -- published last month as "King of the Mountain: The Nature of Political Leadership" (University of Kentucky Press) -- is certainly ambitious. He insists that his Political Greatness Scale -- in which rulers are awarded points for, among other things, creating or liberating countries, winning wars, expanding territory, improving the economy, promoting an original ideology, staying in power and serving as a moral exemplar -- is a reliable, bias-free tool for comparing leaders' achievements. 
On this scale, Yasir Arafat scores 17 out of a possible 37 points, placing him a couple notches above Bill Clinton and on a par with Dwight D. Eisenhower and Francois Mitterrand. The scale's real overachievers, however, are for the most part a motley crew of despots and tyrants, including Hitler (25), Mussolini (26), Stalin (29), Mao (30) and Kemal Ataturk of Turkey (31), as well as a lone American president, Franklin D. Roosevelt (30). 
Dr. Ludwig says the numbers reflect a leader's impact on the world, not his personal virtue. On this scale, for example, warmongering turns out to be critical to one's long-term historical standing. "No American president can be regarded as great unless they've been involved in war and been responsible for the death of many," Dr. Ludwig said.
The belief that dominant personalities shape the course of history is known as Great Man theory, after the Victorian writer Thomas Carlyle, who argued that "the history of the world is but the biography of great men." And in the fledgling discipline of leadership studies, Great Man theory -- like almost everything else about the field -- is hotly contested.
There are now more than 900 leadership studies programs at American colleges and universities, many less than 10 years old. But the discipline remains an amorphous jumble of methods and theories, with scholars scattered across political science, psychology, anthropology, history and philosophy departments and unable to agree on even basic definitions or objectives. 
"The study of leadership is so fragmented, it's almost pulverized," said James MacGregor Burns, the 83-year-old political scientist and Roosevelt biographer, whose 1978 book, "Leadership," is regarded as one of the field's founding texts. While some leadership scholars try to plumb the depths of rulers' psyches -- or measure specific traits like charisma, motivation and emotional intelligence -- others ignore personality altogether, emphasizing political systems and institutions, the reciprocal benefits of leader-follower interactions or any number of economic and social variables. 
The first important modern studies of the American presidency, for example, implicitly endorsed a Great Man approach. In books like "Presidential Power" (1960) and "Presidential Character" (1972) the political scientists Richard E. Neustadt and James David Barber argued that personality made all the difference: given the built-in limits on American presidential power, the most successful first executives were the ones who capitalized on personal charisma and a talent for persuasion. 
The body of scholarship devoted to the first executive's psyche continues to grow. At the University of Michigan, for example, David G. Winter, a psychology professor, uses an elaborate scoring system to rate presidential speeches and statements for their "motivational" content. (Speechwriters are only a minor impediment, he says.) He has scored inaugural addresses by every American president, including George W. Bush, whose "motive profile," he says, "suggested a more aggressive and less entrepreneurial version of his father."
In Mr. Winter's assessment, the presidency may be best suited to those who get greater satisfaction from exercising power and socializing than from achieving policy goals. "Based on past research about presidential motives and performance, we can predict that Bush will enjoy being president," Mr. Winter wrote in his analysis of the speech. (Mr. Bush also distinguished himself by using the word "not" almost 17 times per 1,000 words -- more than any previous president -- which Mr. Winter says is a measure of "activity inhibition," typically high in people who have given up alcohol or do not drink.)
Mr. Winter also studies the minds of foreign leaders. His current project involves scoring statements by senior officials in India and Pakistan to determine the likely outcome of the crisis in Kashmir. He said his analysis was still incomplete. "Like all academics, we're going to predict whether war will occur or not a couple of months after it did or didn't," he said. 
In the early 1970's, the American government expressed its enthusiasm for psychological theory by inaugurating a Center for the Analysis of Personality and Political Behavior at the C.I.A. Dr. Jerrold Post, a psychiatrist who is now director of the political psychology program at George Washington University, founded the C.I.A. center, advising presidents and state department officials on the psychological quirks of foreign leaders. Assisted by a staff of nearly two dozen at its peak in the mid-1980's, Dr. Post said he would conduct interviews and pore over speeches, memoirs and other documents, compiling the long-distance mental assessments deemed crucial at summit meetings and in times of crisis. 
For Ronald Reagan, the center produced leader profiles on video accompanied by mood music. Jimmy Carter mentions the C.I.A.'s profiles of Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat in his memoirs, which he used to prepare for the summit at Camp David. And according to some accounts, the psychological profile of Saddam Hussein that Dr. Post presented to members of Congress in 1990 was what convinced previously reluctant lawmakers to support the Persian Gulf war. 
C.I.A. analyses have also been cause for embarrassment: a 1993 profile of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's president in exile, erroneously claimed he had been treated for manic depression in a Montreal hospital.
The C.I.A. center is no longer in operation today, though a government official acknowledged that the "capability still exists." Dr. Post said he did not know to what extent the Bush administration relies on profiles. Nevertheless, he added, "with the current focus on Iraq, to believe you can analyze its decisions without taking into account Saddam Hussein is an absurdity." 
Such remarks don't sit well with struturalists like Terry M. Moe, a political scientist at Stanford University, who argues that leadership has much less to do with the personality quirks of great men than with the organizational bureaucracy that surrounds them. "I would see presidents as fundamentally similar," he said. "They may have different goals, ideologies and personalities, but the institutional foundations of their powers is basically the same."
Try convincing the public of that. As Mr. Moe pointed out: "It's easy to personify leadership. You can see the guy. He's something concrete. And the media is obsessed with personality. Structure is much more difficult to put your finger on." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dwight D. Eisenhower meets the warrior test of greatness.; Mao Zedong, an ideologue who made China Marxist.; Yasir Arafat, ranked above Bill Clinton by one expert.; Stalin and Hitler were both ruthless killers on the grand scale. (Associated Press); Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the subject of a C.I.A. mistake. (David Scull/The New York Times)(pg. B7); (Illustration by Jack Ohman)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); RELIGION (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (83%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) EAKIN, EMILY; LUDWIG, ARNOLD M (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: KING OF THE MOUNTAIN: THE NATURE OF POLITICAL LEADERSHIP (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



656 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: After Criticism, U.S. Broadens 9/11 Aid Pool 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
After months of criticism about its missteps and delays in distributing financial help to New Yorkers affected by the Sept. 11 terror attack, the Federal Emergency Management Agency announced yesterday that it was formally changing its eligibility criteria to allow aid to thousands more people who suffered economic hardship as a result of the disaster.
 Under the new guidelines, the agency said, anyone who lived or worked in Manhattan and suffered financially because of the attack may now be eligible for the financial assistance needed to avoid being evicted from an apartment or home. Others in the surrounding boroughs who worked for businesses that were economically dependent on Lower Manhattan, from cabdrivers to factory workers, may also be eligible. 
 Previously, the agency had demanded that those applying for aid demonstrate that their economic hardship was a "direct result" of the attack, a standard that many regarded as needlessly restrictive and that agency officials conceded broke with its usual formula. 
The agency's reversal comes months after problems with its assistance programs became apparent and after senior lawmakers in New York and New Jersey began a fierce campaign to get the agency to reconsider thousands of the applications for aid it had previously denied. Agency officials based in New York had even criticized their superiors' decisions in Washington on the handling of the aid, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat from New York, had pushed legislation through the Senate that, with the approval of the House, would have compelled the agency to widen its eligibility standards.
In a statement, Joseph M. Allbaugh, the emergency agency's director, said yesterday, "In the spirit of President Bush's call to do 'whatever it takes' to help New York recover, and after a midstream review of the program, I have directed the most creative and expansive use of the Mortgage and Rental Assistance Program in FEMA's history."
Mr. Schumer, who had met with agency officials regularly in recent weeks, said he believed that the agency changed its policy after being prompted by the White House and the Office of Management and Budget.
"I think there's been a lot of interplay between the White House, O.M.B. and FEMA," Mr. Schumer said. "Unequivocally, they had the green light from higher sources."
Even so, some politicians and organizations working to help those hurt and endangered economically by the attacks said they were skeptical about the practical effects of yesterday's changes.
To qualify for the aid, people still have to demonstrate that they are in danger of eviction, that they had a lawful reason for being in New York and that they lost at least a quarter of their income because of the disaster's effect on jobs and businesses.
"FEMA's motto seems to be, keep promising to fix the program until we get it right, and I just hope they can deliver this time," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Democrat from Manhattan. "People affected by 9/11 heard FEMA's promise two months ago that it would review 7,200 wrongly denied applications, but only 85 more people were granted awards, so there's more than a little skepticism at this point."
In the months after the Sept. 11 attack, many politicians and relief organizations denounced the emergency agency for doling out a fraction of what it normally does after major catastrophes. People were most upset, though, about one more rarely used program and its administration: the Mortgage and Rental Assistance Program, which covers up to 18 months of mortgage or rent payments for anyone who lost income "as a result" of a disaster.
In principle, the program seemed well suited to the circumstances. Much of the damage to New York was economic -- the losses totaling about 75,000 jobs and $4.5 billion in income. Those affected included taxi drivers, seamstresses in Chinatown, hotel workers in Lower Manhattan, and manufacturers in Brooklyn who could not survive the transportation problems that gripped much of the region for months.
When evaluating eligibility, FEMA changed its usual phrase "as a result" to "as a direct result," which significantly raised the burden of proof on jobless workers and others trying to qualify. 
As a result, 7 of every 10 applicants were rejected, a rate that far exceeded that in other major relief efforts.
Moreover, those evaluating the claims were in Texas and other locales outside the Northeast and so were often not exactly knowledgeable about New York. One evaluator, for instance, did not know that 1 Liberty Plaza was in Lower Manhattan, much less adjacent to the World Trade Center, when it was cited in an application as the address of a badly damaged and long-closed workplace.
The pressure on the agency to alter its policies mounted recently, as evidenced by news reports, Mr. Schumer's legislation and regular demonstrations by community groups outside the federal emergency agency's office in Lower Manhattan.
"We got the message loud and clear," said Brad Gair, the agency's federal recovery officer in New York, who urged residents to call the agency's special line, (800) 462-9029.
Now, with the new guidelines, the agency promises to work more closely with local volunteer agencies like the New York Immigration Coalition and the Sept. 11 Fund to reach tens of thousands of additional residents. The application forms, previously available only in English, will soon be available in Chinese, Spanish and other languages. 
The application deadline has been extended from Sept. 30 to Jan. 31, 2003.
Still, some community groups said they doubted that the agency could properly assess the complexities and nuances of the claims. They were also uncomfortable about the agency's requirement that New Yorkers who worked outside Manhattan had to prove that their employers conducted a sizable portion of their business in Manhattan.
"We've been talking with FEMA for months in an effort to get them to improve this program, and we're cautiously optimistic about this announcement," said Joshua Gotbaum, chief executive of the Sept. 11 Fund. "But of course the proof is not in the promise, but in the performance." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); POLITICS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



657 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL AT WORLDCOM: THE PRESIDENT; 
Bush Issues Call for Honesty in Corporate America

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that American executives had the responsibility to be honest about their balance sheets, as the White House announced that Mr. Bush would make a major speech on corporate responsibility July 9 on Wall Street. 
 "Corporate America has got to understand there's a higher calling than trying to fudge the numbers, trying to slip a billion here or a billion there and may hope nobody notices," Mr. Bush said today at a fund-raiser here for Representative Connie Morella, Republican of Maryland. 
 Mr. Bush's remarks were yet another presidential criticism of WorldCom, the nation's second-largest long-distance provider, whose financial collapse this week has left the White House and Republicans struggling to limit the political risks. Today was the third straight day that Mr. Bush had spoken out about WorldCom, the latest in a string of corporate financial scandals.
Mr. Bush promised again that there would be consequences for those engaged in wrongdoing. "Our Justice Department will hold people accountable," Mr. Bush said. He added that "we expect high standards in our schools, we expect high standards in corporate America as well."
In another move showing the administration's eagerness to hold corporate executives responsible for their actions, the Securities and Exchange Commission today published a list of companies with reported annual revenue of more than $1.2 billion that will have to meet new reporting requirements. Chief executives and chief financial officers from those 945 companies must personally certify under oath that their most recent reports filed with the S.E.C. are complete and accurate, the commission said.
The list of companies has been posted on the commission's Web site, www.sec.gov. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); SCANDALS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); COMPANY REVENUES (65%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; CORPORATIONS; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



658 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Raises Money in Limelight, and Wields Power Behind Scenes 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., June 28 

 BODY:
Dick Cheney was called a curious pick as George W. Bush's running mate even by many Republicans during the 2000 election because -- despite his stature in government -- he was never known as impressive on the stump.
 But Mr. Cheney has demonstrated once again that vice presidents are star attractions on the campaign trail. At event after event, Mr. Cheney is drawing packed crowds and raking in millions of dollars for Republican candidates. 
 Today, just a few days after lending a critical hand in shaping President Bush's speech on the Middle East, Mr. Cheney slipped into his job as vice fund-raiser-in-chief, speaking to 300 Republican faithful at a $500-a-plate luncheon for Elizabeth Dole, the likely Republican nominee to replace retiring Senator Jesse Helms. 
 In this midterm election year, Mr. Cheney has become not only a marquee attraction but also a critical behind-the-scenes player in Republican electoral politics. He often squeezes in two to three events a week -- Mrs. Dole is his highest-profile candidate to date -- and he has raised more than $11 million at some 30 events so far.
 Mr. Bush usually pulls in much more money per event, but Republican donors and officials say the president and vice president have different kinds of star power. To be sure, most of Mr. Cheney's appearances are before partisan audiences who pay money to see him. Still, the excitement is obvious.
"When people meet George W. Bush, they get giddy," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "When they meet Cheney, it's more reverence. It's the difference between meeting Britney Spears and meeting the pope."
Political analysts say Mr. Cheney seems to be campaigning slightly less than many of his predecessors, who have typically used the prosaic vice presidential fund-raising duty to help build their own political bases and presidential aspirations. (Al Gore, for example, got into political trouble for his fund-raising calls from the White House.) Neither is true of Mr. Cheney, who has said he is not interested in the presidency.
Indeed, after today's 18-minute stump speech, in which Mr. Cheney gave his plug for Mrs. Dole, lauded Mr. Bush's handling of the economy and war on terrorism, and scolded the Senate for not acting faster to approve the president's nominations for federal judgeships, several listeners said the vice president lived up to his billing.
"I feel safer with him," said Laurie Payne, 42, a Republican campaign worker from Raleigh. "He's the man."
 Russell Capps, a state legislator, added, "It's an honor to be in his presence."
Mr. Cheney was not on the ground here more than three hours. Before the luncheon, he met with large donors for a private round-table discussion and photo session. After speaking, he paid a private visit to Mr. Helms, who is recuperating from open-heart surgery, and then moved on to Charlotte, where he spoke to the Southern Republican Leadership Conference.
Predictably, Republican officials say Mr. Cheney's role as perhaps the most influential vice president ever is improving their chances for maintaining control of the House, regaining the Senate and stemming a loss of Republican governors.
 But some independent analysts and Democrats say Mr. Cheney may have a few chinks in his political armor.
"Most vice presidents play this campaigning role reluctantly because it feels demeaning to them, but they do it to prove themselves to the president and White House staff, and increase their influence," said Paul Light, a government scholar at the Brookings Institution. "I call Cheney the vice president in reverse. He started out at the pinnacle of vice-presidential power, but since the transition he's been coming back to Earth. He's still very influential, but he's not the super vice president he was before."
Indeed, with corporate scandals erupting almost every week, Democrats sense that Mr. Cheney's background as a former chief executive of the Halliburton Company, the oil services giant, could make him vulnerable to political attack.
"I do think there will be big questions raised about his role at Halliburton as the country looks at the lack of leadership on the economy and cracking down on corporate problems," said Jenny Backus, a spokeswoman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
Not surprisingly, Republican strategists and Mr. Cheney's aides scoff at such talk.
 "Next to the president, he's the hottest ticket in American politics today," said Rich Bond, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee.
White House political strategists said they consult with Mr. Cheney's aides about where to dispatch him to help candidates, but Mr. Cheney does not usually get directly involved.
 "This is not a vice president who's going around looking at precinct results," said Ken Mehlman, the White House political director. "The test is where he can be decisive. There's been a tremendous clamor for him."
 On Monday in Portland, Ore., Mr. Cheney raised $300,000 for Senator Gordon Smith, a Republican who is facing a stiff challenge in a state that Al Gore narrowly won two years ago. Mr. Smith not only banked some badly needed cash, but also hitched a ride back to Washington with Mr. Cheney on Air Force Two, and used the time to discuss problems facing Oregon, such as water shortages and the risk of forest fires.
 As a former five-term congressman from Wyoming and House Republican leader, Mr. Cheney remains popular among lawmakers.
 "He's a great asset for the administration, especially in dealing with the House," said Representative Jerry Lewis, a California Republican who was elected to the House in 1978 with Mr. Cheney and lunched with him on Capitol Hill this week. "He's always been a really great person to deal with legislators. He knows them well and has their confidence."
 Mr. Cheney's credentials as a former Secretary of Defense and member of the House Intelligence Committee also play well with Republicans in relation to the war on terrorism.
 "He's not the president, but he's a close second," said Richard Wadhams, campaign manager for Senator Wayne Allard, a Colorado Republican for whom Mr. Cheney raised $400,000 at a dinner in Denver in April. "With national security rising in prominence in terms of what people care about, Vice President Cheney is a very hot commodity."
 Indeed, Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, the ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee, did not figure to face a tough re-election this year, but just to make sure, he wanted to build a war chest large enough to scare away any serious Democratic contenders. Mr. Cheney raised $350,0000 in March for Mr. Warner, and the challenge disappeared.
 As a party elder, Mr. Cheney has been called upon by the White House to sort out messy, interparty squabbles.
 Last year, when the White House sought to avert a divisive Republican Senate primary in Minnesota that could ruin plans to unseat Senator Paul Wellstone, a Democrat, Mr. Cheney was asked to intervene.
 Two hours before one of the contenders, Tim Pawlenty, the majority leader of the Minnesota House, planned to announce his intention to run, he received a call from Mr. Cheney urging him to abandon the race, to clear the field for Norm Coleman, a former mayor of St. Paul. Mr. Pawlenty quickly bowed out and is now running for governor instead.
 The White House has scheduled Mr. Cheney to appear at 60 to 70 fund-raisers, and aides say he has not tired of a routine that has four months to go.
 "It's something I enjoy doing," Mr. Cheney said in February while discussing the traditional vice presidential job of hitting the hustings in an interview during a campaign swing through California.
 "It's good for business, shall we say, in terms of a lot of what I have to do on the Hill," he said. "The members care a lot about it. They know you're out there lending a hand to maintain or build a majority that's running the bank politically."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Dole greeted Vice President Dick Cheney yesterday at a Republican fund-raiser in Raleigh, N.C., where he helped raise $250,000. (Associated Press) Chart: "ALMANAC: Cheney's Political Travels"Vice President Dick Cheney has helped to raise at least $11.2 milllion for Republican candidates and the party this year. DATE -- LOCATION -- BENEFITING -- APPROXIMATE AMOUNT RAISEDJan. 25 -- Cincinnati Rep. -- Rob Portman -- $400,000Feb. 6 -- Evansville, Ind. -- Rep. John Hostettler -- $200,000Feb. 7 -- Hopkinsville, Ky. -- Rep. Edward Whitfield -- 100,000Feb. 7 -- Louisville, Ky. -- Rep. Anne M. Northup -- 300,000Feb. 19 -- Los Angeles California -- state party -- 1,000,000Feb. 20 -- Pleasanton, Calif. -- Rep. Richard W. Pombo -- 300,000Feb. 21 -- Sacramento -- Rep. John T. Doolittle -- 140,000March 4 -- McLean, Va. -- Senator John W. Warner -- $350,000April 3 -- DenverSenator -- Wayne Allard -- $400,000April 4 -- Fayetteville, Ark. -- Senator Tim Hutchinson -- 190,000April 4 -- Kansas City, Mo. -- Rep. Sam Graves -- 150,000April 5 -- Jackson, Miss. -- Rep. Charles W. Pickering Jr. -- 150,000April 12 -- Richmond, Va. -- Rep. J. Randy Forbes -- 15,000April 12 -- Charleston, W.Va. -- Rep. Shelley Moore Capito -- 250,000April 15 -- Collinsville, Ill. -- Rep. John Shimkus -- 200,000April 19 -- Islandia, N.Y. -- Rep. Felix J. Grucci Jr. -- 250,000April 19 -- Allentown, Pa. -- Rep. Patrick J. Toomey -- 150,000April 22 -- Orlando, Fla. Florida -- state party -- not disclosedApril 22 -- Orlando, Fla. -- Rep. Ric Keller -- 225,000April 22 -- Fort Lauderdale, Fla. -- Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr. -- 450,000May 2 -- South Bend, Ind. -- Chris Chocola (House ) -- $250,000May 9 -- Minneapolis -- Rep. Mark Kennedy -- 225,000May 9 -- Minneapolis Minnesota -- state party -- not disclosedMay 11 -- Jackson Hole, Wyo. Wyoming -- state party -- 20,000May 16 -- New York House -- campaign committee -- 1,500,000May 21 -- Boston Massachusetts -- state party and Mitt Romney (governor) -- 650,000May 29 -- Nashville Tennessee -- state party -- 1,000,000June 7 -- Lower Paxton Township, Pa. -- Rep. George W. Gekas -- $200,000June 14 -- Columbia, S.C. South Carolina -- state party and Rep. Lindsey Graham (Senate) -- 400,000June 20 -- Dayton, Ohio -- Mike Turner (House) -- 200,000June 20 -- Detroit Michigan -- state party -- 1,000,000June 24 -- Portland, Ore. -- Oregon state party and Senator Gordon H. Smith -- 300,000June 28 -- Raleigh, N.C. -- Elizabeth Dole (Senate) -- 250,000 (Sources: Office of the Vice President; Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); JUDGES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); APPROVALS (65%); TERRORISM (50%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ELIZABETH DOLE (90%); JOHN WARNER (79%); JOHN SHIMKUS (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN T DOOLITTLE (79%); ED WHITFIELD (73%); RIC KELLER (73%); WAYNE ALLARD (58%); AL GORE (58%); SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO (58%); GORDON SMITH (58%); J RANDY FORBES (58%); MICHAEL R TURNER (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%); SAM GRAVES (58%); PAT TOOMEY (58%); CHARLES W PICKERING (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%) CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); SCHMITT, ERIC; DOLE, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (74%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (74%); DAYTON, OH, USA (59%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (59%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002 



659 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2179 words

HEADLINE: Dostoyevsky: The Mellow Years 

BYLINE:  By Michael Scammell; Michael Scammell, who teaches nonfiction writing in the School of the Arts at Columbia University, is the author of "Solzhenitsyn," a biography, and is completing a biography of Arthur Koestler.

 BODY:
 DOSTOEVSKY
The Mantle of the Prophet, 1871-1881.
By Joseph Frank.
Illustrated. 784 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press. $35.
 Half a century ago, the Princeton literary scholar Joseph Frank read "Notes From the Underground" for a study of existentialism, concentrating on what he took to be "the irrationalism and amoralism" of Dostoyevsky's underground man. Later, dissatisfied with this approach, he took a second look, and spent the next 20 years steeping himself in Russian language and culture. In 1976, he published the first volume of a biographical study of the author that was meant to run four volumes and grew to five, of which the final volume has just appeared, some 26 years after the first. Whatever else one may think, it is a monumental achievement, and appears, among other things, to have edged out Leon Edel's five-volume work on Henry James as the longest literary biography in English. Edel's work (in my edition) comes to just over 2,000 pages; Frank's is almost 25 percent longer. 
Frank's final volume follows the pattern of his earlier ones, covering a relatively short period of the author's life in painstaking detail, in this case
the years of Dostoyevsky's last decade. "Dostoevsky: The Mantle of the Prophet, 1871-1881" opens with him returning to Russia after an absence of four years in Western Europe, whither he had fled partly in search of a treatment for his epilepsy, and partly to escape being thrown into a debtors' prison. In those four tumultuous years he almost gambled himself to death, but also established himself as one of Russia's greatest writers: "Crime and Punishment" appeared on the very eve of his departure, "The Insulted and Injured" and "The Idiot" both came out while he was abroad, and "The Devils" was being serialized at the time of his return. That novel, despite the controversy surrounding Dostoyevsky's hostile treatment of revolutionary movements in its pages, consolidated his reputation as one of the two or three greatest novelists then writing in Russian. 
It was a relatively happy period for the tormented author. His practical young wife (and former stenographer), Anna Grigoryevna, took over his financial affairs, and they were able to purchase a house in the quiet provincial town of Staraya Russa, where much of "The Brothers Karamazov" was written. He was introduced to Czar Alexander II, who asked him to act as a spiritual guide to his younger sons, and he became close friends with the reactionary Konstantin Pobedonostsev, tutor to the czarevitch Alexander (and later notorious as the procurator of the Holy Synod). In the vain hope of assuring himself financial security, Dostoyevsky also agreed to edit the conservative weekly The Citizen, but the work schedule proved so punishing and the pay so poor that, with the encouragement of Anna Grigoryevna, he decided to start a monthly journal of his own. This became The Diary of a Writer, which appeared regularly in 1873, 1876 and 1877, and fitfully in 1880 and 1881. 
The Diary has certainly received its fair share of attention from the critics, but Frank goes one better, treating it as a major literary and political achievement and devoting four full chapters to it, in addition to copious mentions in other chapters. It was a unique enterprise, a felicitous combination of reminiscences, dramatic sketches, essays, short stories and opinion pieces that enabled Dostoyevsky to enter into an informal dialogue with his readers that reached far beyond the scope of even the most conversational or capacious of his novels. In effect, it allowed him to extend the arguments of the novels by other means -- to editorialize and express opinions on all the great topics of the day.
True to his earlier, more liberal convictions, Dostoyevsky continued to support the consequences of the emancipation of the serfs in 1861, but he was resolutely opposed to Russia's adopting a Western-style constitution. He deeply admired the spiritual qualities of the Russian Orthodox Church, which he regarded as vastly superior to Roman Catholicism, and enthusiastically supported the Russian war against Turkey, which he saw not as an imperialist adventure but as a holy war to liberate the Orthodox Slavs of the Balkans from the Turkish yoke. Dostoyevsky was also an unrepentant anti-Semite, and he was deeply preoccupied by the startlingly relevant (to us) issue of what to do about terrorism. Repeated attempts by the Nihilists to assassinate the czar seemed, in fact, to confirm the fictional scenario laid out in "The Devils."
FRANK is at his impressive best setting out Dostoyevsky's intellectual positions in the context of Russian politics and trends in the late 19th century. These were years when the chief opposition to the czar came from members of the Populist movement, successors to the radical "new men" and revolutionaries of the 1840's, men with whom Dostoyevsky himself had been allied before he was sent to Siberia and was then reborn as a mystical conservative. Dostoyevsky now opposed most of the Populist program, but that did not stop him from opportunistically publishing his short novel "A Raw Youth" in the chief Populist journal of the day, an ambiguous gesture that baffled friends and enemies alike. Frank, however, is able to show that just as Dostoyevsky had clung to his Christian faith even at moments of youthful revolutionary fervor, so now in crusty maturity did he harbor a lingering attachment to the radical friends (notably the Populist poet Nikolai Nekrasov) and utopian beliefs of his Socialist youth.
True, the main goal of the Populists and that of the increasingly reactionary Dostoyevsky were similar -- to realize the greatest happiness for the greatest number of their fellow citizens -- but their programs were poles apart. The Populists advocated political and economic reform and a constitution, whereas Dostoyevsky looked to the spiritual transformation of the individual, based on the inherent saintliness of the Russian character and the compassion of the czar.
Important as these debates were, the heart of Dostoyevsky's achievement during these years was to be found in his literary works. Frank does full justice to the excellent short stories that found their way into The Diary of a Writer, and to his last and greatest novel, "The Brothers Karamazov." True to his method of close critical analysis and what the French call explication de texte, Frank devotes a further eight chapters (and portions of several others) to a minute dissection of the novel's 12 parts. He demonstrates how it grew out of a lifetime of reading and meditation, and argues that it represents the apotheosis of Dostoyevsky's thinking on "the great theme that had preoccupied him since 'Notes From Underground': the conflict between reason and Christian faith." 
Dostoyevsky, in Frank's view, is comparable to Dante, Shakespeare and Milton in the grandeur of his thought and the power of his spiritual vision. His goal in this novel, Frank says, was both to portray the breakdown of social and family life (the principal theme of the much weaker "Raw Youth") and to warn, through the three Karamazov brothers, Ivan, Dimitri and Alyosha, and their corrupt father, Fyodor, against the impending collapse of Western civilization, which was inevitable unless humankind embraced a return to the (Orthodox) Christian faith.
Frank rarely stoops to the literary gossip that is the staple of so many literary biographies these days, but he does track some aspects of the rivalry between Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy (who never met), and the literary and political rivalry between the Slavophile Dostoyevsky and the Westernizing Turgenev, which came to a rousing climax at the weeklong Pushkin festivities in Moscow in June 1880. The occasion was the unveiling of a new statue of Pushkin. In his own speech, the cosmopolitan Turgenev unwisely suggested that Pushkin might not quite be a universal genius on the level of Shakespeare, Goethe and Moliere, and showed how out of touch he was with the patriotic mood then gripping the country. Dostoyevsky proclaimed Pushkin "a prophet," and hailed him as "the poetic herald of the glorious mission" that Russia had been "called upon to accomplish on behalf of humanity," thus enlisting the classic poet (quite falsely) as "a symbol of his own Russian messianism" and giving the crowd exactly what it wanted to hear. When Dostoyevsky concluded his peroration, it provoked "hysterical effusions" in his listeners reminiscent of a religious revival meeting. 
The Dostoyevsky-Turgenev episodes illustrate some strengths and weaknesses of Frank's approach. His great strength is the scrupulousness with which he disentangles the intellectual arguments of the Westernizers and Slavophiles and charts the ebb and flow of the rivalry between these two great writers; another is the skill with which he portrays the debate through the prism of Dostoyevsky's own ideas and emotions at the time. But Frank's avowed partisanship entails a certain loss of credibility, while his painstaking scholarly digressions exact a heavy price in loss of readability. The rich drama of the clash of the two titans at the Pushkin Festival almost disappears in a welter of mostly superfluous detail.
Similarly, to take another example, at the start of Chapter 10, Frank neatly summarizes the few virtues and multiple defects of "A Raw Youth" in a couple of terse pages. But he then persists for 24 pages more in dissecting the novel chapter by chapter and scene by scene -- this after devoting the entire previous chapter to the notes for the novel. The writer's notes, indeed, are meat and drink to Frank: he pounces on them like a hungry cat, seeming more interested in the plans for a book than in the quality of the finished product; one can almost hear the pathos when he remarks on the regrettable paucity of author's notes for "The Brothers Karamazov."
Frank's reverent devotion to his hero presumably explains why the familiar Dostoyevsky is entirely missing from these pages. Gone is the agonized, pathological gambler of legend, the sadomasochistic lover, the demanding friend and splenetic adversary collapsing in epileptic convulsions on the floor at moments of emotional intensity. In their place we get a kindly patriarch, loving husband and father, loyal friend and patient editor and correspondent. Such revisionism is not unwelcome, particularly since Dostoyevsky undoubtedly mellowed in later years, but again it brings problems in its train.
In his discussion of The Diary of a Writer, for example, Frank is obliged to acknowledge Dostoyevsky's "ugly anti-Semitism" and "deep-rooted xenophobia." But he attempts to mitigate them with the comment that Dostoyevsky was merely exhibiting "the prejudices that prevailed in Russian society," which were "not particularly abusive if judged by the standards of his time and place." Describing Dostoyevsky's notoriously prejudiced essay "The Jewish Question," Frank is at pains to suggest that its conclusion nevertheless "holds out the hope of a resolution" through the operations of human charity and benevolence. He then wraps the subject up by citing a letter from one of Dostoyevsky's Jewish correspondents, who generously attributes the author's anti-Semitism to "thoughtlessness."
FRANK'S literary style, it has to be said, is no better than workmanlike, marred by a plethora of "thuses" and double-barreled adjectives ("social-political," "moral-philosophical" and so on) that have a mildly soporific effect. He is no Leon Edel, searching for the figure in the carpet, attempting to honor art with a biographical work of art -- but nor, in all fairness, does he aspire to be. At the very outset of his enterprise he wrote that Dostoyevsky's personal life interested him only to the degree that it could be shown to illuminate his books. "My work is thus not a biography, or if so, only in a special sense -- for I do not go from the life to the work, but rather the other way round." And in this final volume he is even more explicit. What he has written is not so much about Dostoyevsky as an individual as it is "a condensed history of 19th-century Russian culture, with Dostoyevsky at the center." 
The description is accurate. This is not a literary biography in the usual sense of the term, nor does it offer a portrait of the whole man. It is, rather, an exhaustive history of Dostoyevsky's mind, an encyclopedic account of the author as major novelist and thinker, essayist and editor, journalist and polemicist. The result is a vast structure that surpasses (in length and detail, at least) the creations of the great man himself. Wrought with tireless love and boundless ingenuity, it has a slightly musty air about it, like some huge mausoleum with innumerable rooms for the wondering visitor to wander through and admire at leisure. It is a Brobdingnagian of a book, intended to be picked up, browsed in and put down: a multifaceted tribute from an erudite and penetrating cultural critic to one of the great masters of 19th-century fiction.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Bandsuch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (93%); LITERATURE (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); EPILEPSY (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: SCAMMELL, MICHAEL; FRANK, JOSEPH; DOSTOYEVSKY, FYODOR (1821-81) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (54%); WESTERN EUROPE (54%)

TITLE: DOSTOEVSKY: THE MANTLE OF THE PROPHET, 1871-1881 (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



660 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Capitalist Tool 

BYLINE:  By Lisa Zeidner; Lisa Zeidner is the author of four novels, most recently "Layover." She directs the graduate program in English at Rutgers University in Camden.

 BODY:
 MORAL HAZARD
By Kate Jennings.
175 pp. New York:
Fourth Estate. $21.95.
 ASIDE from the western and the hard-boiled mystery, there may not be a more macho genre than the business novel. Novelists concerned with finance have typically produced big, brawny books -- volumes so dense with detail, so steroid-stuffed with muscular facts, that you can heft them like barbells. The casts are mammoth, the character development often commensurately thin -- and very few of the characters are women. After all, as the heroine of Kate Jennings's elegant second novel, "Moral Hazard," notes, Wall Street men borrow their stance "in equal parts from the Marines, the C.I.A. and Las Vegas." Among the suits, women find themselves "about as welcome as fleas in a sleeping bag." 
Jennings sets out to challenge the boys' club. Her novel's Sunday-in-the-park pace and poetic structure make it strikingly different from the typical treatment of the business world. Indeed, part of what makes "Moral Hazard" so seductive is the fresh style with which it engages its topic: the ethical jungles of high finance.
The novel's middle-aged heroine, Cath, works as a speechwriter for a Wall Street investment bank that is "not quite top tier but bumping against Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley." She struggles to make the arcane business of global markets comprehensible -- no easy feat, since she knows almost nothing about finance. But she can't afford to work in an artsy field like publishing. Her beloved husband, Bailey, 25 years her senior, has just learned he has Alzheimer's, and Cath must earn major money to afford his care.
As a "bedrock feminist" and an "unreconstructed left-winger," Cath feels more than a little uncomfortable putting a cheerful spin on the bank's treacherous fiscal high jinks in the mid-90's. She loathes her supervisor, a fat sycophant who "produced corporate propaganda with the efficiency of a sausage machine." When she begins the job, she's outraged by Wall Street's stupidity and greed. In this "modern-day equivalent of the court of Louis XVI," she muses, "impossible sums of money were heaped on people who were no more deserving of it than any other kind of professional. Sure, they put in long hours in a Darwinian environment, but the same could be said of New York City public school teachers." The more she learns, however, the more her principles are shaken and tested. 
Her smoking buddy Mike, a brilliant Marxist turned executive manager, provides her with an "education in modern finance," leading her through the labyrinths of derivatives and hedge funds and predicting that she'll soon be a patriotic capitalist. Cath also listens to the cryptic economic wisdom of Horace, the head of investment banking, an Englishman and "a free-market fundamentalist" who gives her an insider's view of the bank's secret politics. 
Cath learns while her husband forgets. As Bailey's condition deteriorates, Cath must commit him to a nursing home and deal with a "bureaucratic vise" to maintain her Medicaid benefits. She has her husband labeled "Do Not Resuscitate," but as his decline becomes uglier she wrestles with the idea of an assisted suicide. Jennings draws a parallel between Cath's moral hazard and the bank's. When irresponsible foreign traders cause a crisis, should the bank leave those funds to their own sorry fates? Does "structured finance," which is "all aimed at neutralizing risk by parceling it up," function like the net of doctors and rules that keep a patient from a natural death?
Readers looking to "Moral Hazard" for a crash course in investment will be disappointed. Jennings's author's note provides some recommendations for those "wanting to know more about the subject than a short novel can bear." The Australian-born Jennings herself did a stint as a Wall Street speechwriter, and her approach to the "hellishly complicated" business is unabashedly an outsider's. "You know what the guys selling this bells-and-whistles stuff call it? 'YDWTK. You Don't Want to Know.' Muddier than the Mississippi." 
Nor does "Moral Hazard" offer one of those rollicking, panoramic plots in which secrets are revealed, fortunes made and lost. Mike muses that he'd love to write just such a Grishamesque thriller: "All the investment banks have C.I.A. or State Department guys working for them. Filled with spooks! Being a banker is a good cover. The stories I've heard." "Moral Hazard" is a meditation, not a page turner -- a tone poem about "the real nature of the global financial markets: perilous, jerry-built, mortared with spit and cupidity." 
The novel works when Jennings's writing is that lively and precise. She's at her best describing the gray grimness of the working drone's daily life: skyscrapers as "infestations of middle managers, tortuous chains of command, stupor-inducing meetings, ever-widening gyres of e-mail." There are depictions of shoppers at Century 21 ("like being let loose in a costume museum") or cab rides up the F.D.R. Drive ("by the Lower East Side playing fields and their antiquated stadium lighting banked in uneven clusters and resembling graying dowager diamonds") that should delight New Yorkers.
The material about Bailey's battle with Alzheimer's is somewhat less successful. Jennings carefully avoids sentimentality about the death of her protagonist's "darling husband," but Cath's stiff-upper-lip forbearance can wear thin. Further, there may be a little problem in the extended metaphor about Alzheimer's and Wall Street. There's only one way that Bailey's story can end, as end it must. The financial markets, on the other hand, have "been around, in one form or another, since the Sumerians." In documenting the Street's ugly will to self-preservation, its grisly plus ca change, Jennings is at her most convincing. 
In one scene, Cath disparages a pep talk for midlevel women managers. She notes how badly the men wear their suits, how studiously the women flash their diamond wedding rings, how deluded the women are in their belief that they're soaring to the top of the bank's hierarchy. "At the back of the room," Cath confesses, "I felt like the Ancient Mariner." Luckily, she makes a pretty droll Mariner; it's a pleasure to witness her snide asides.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter O. Zierlein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); ETHICS (79%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); STEROIDS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: ZEIDNER, LISA; JENNINGS, KATE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: MORAL HAZARD (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



661 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Endangered Landscape 

BYLINE:  By Darcy Frey; Darcy Frey is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article was on global warming.

 BODY:
Landscapes, no less than people, are transformed by the eyes that behold them. When an environmentalist travels the Jack Morrow Hills, in Wyoming's Red Desert, he sees a near-perfect ecosystem of soaring buttes, badlands and shifting sand dunes, while desert elk and pronghorn antelope hoof across the sands, pausing to drink from tiny ponds formed when the winter snows melt between the dunes. At 600,000 acres, the Jack Morrow Hills are part of this country's largest untouched high-elevation desert, indeed one of the largest roadless areas of any kind in the U.S. -- what Mac Blewer of the Wyoming Outdoor Council likes to call "the wild heart of the West." When an energy developer treads that same path, however, he often sees with a kind of seismic vision, sensing beneath those same geologic sands a portion of the approximately 137 trillion cubic feet of natural gas that is believed to lie within the Rocky Mountain region. 
 Now that the Bush administration's efforts to drill for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska have been defeated in the Senate, the Bush-Cheney energy team is shifting its focus to the Rocky Mountain West. From New Mexico to the Canadian border, scores of new drilling sites are being proposed. (In Wyoming's Powder River Basin alone, the Department of the Interior is hoping to lease up to 50,000 new well sites, a move that would nearly double all active oil and gas wells on American public lands.) Unlike the fight over the Arctic refuge, an iconic place in the midst of a national debate, the Rocky Mountain energy battles will be fought in some cases in little-known places across a diffuse geographic area. And while the refuge had Congressional protection, only regulatory changes by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management would be needed for industry to gain a greater foothold across much of the American West. But just as it did when the White House proposed drilling for oil in America's most pristine wildlife refuge, the country will once again be faced with a choice over how to use some of its most mineral-rich lands -- places that are all the more threatened because of their beautiful anonymity. 
 When the Bush administration unveiled its energy task force plan last year, its central argument was that fossil-fuel development and environmental stewardship were not mutually exclusive. In the Arctic refuge, it was argued, the 70's-era technology that turned swaths of Alaska's North Slope into a seething industrial zone was a thing of the past; ice roads, as well as high-tech drilling techniques, could limit the industrial "footprint" of a particular drilling site to just a few acres. Likewise, concerns that drilling on the refuge's delicate coastal plain could threaten a 130,000-strong Porcupine River caribou herd were addressed with charts and graphs showing that in the more than 30 years since oil was first discovered in Prudhoe Bay, caribou populations had soared; oil was "caribou viagra," according to lobbyists, who handed out photos of massive, full-antlered bulls grazing contentedly in the shadow of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. 
To those and other statements, environmentalists suggested that industry put its money where its mouth was. Robert Costanza, one of a growing number of "ecological economists," proposed the idea that if oil companies wanted to drill in environmentally sensitive areas, they should be required to post an assurance bond, just as a building contractor often does, large enough to cover the "worst-case damages from their activity." If indeed the industrial footprint was going to be so small, he argued, how could an oil company object to posting a refundable bond to cover the cost of, say, cleaning up thousands of barrels of oil spilled across the tundra? The debate over what to do with the Jack Morrow Hills and other sites along the Great Divide Basin has generally hewed to the same terms, with energy interests promising minimal impact and environmentalists seeking to hold them to their word. (The Bureau of Land Management is scheduled to release an environmental-impact statement for the Jack Morrow Hills in September.) 
One of the Bush administration's main arguments is that so much American public land has been locked up by environmental regulation that its energy plan merely restores a sense of balance to the debate. But in fact, at last count, more than 90 percent of B.L.M. land in the Rocky Mountain region was potentially available to oil and gas leasing. The terms of the debate have narrowed. While the old school of conservationists used to fight for true wilderness -- land free and clear of the industrial hand of man -- today's environmental activists are largely left trying to limit industry's pervasive reach, ensuring that caribou can thrive near pipelines and desert elk can negotiate the gravel of the drilling pad. Hardly anyone poses the larger question, as Margaret Murie did in her Congressional testimony some 20 years ago on behalf of expanding the original Arctic refuge: "Having been the basis of all our sophisticated society, doesn't wilderness itself have a right to live on?" 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Jack Morrow Hills area in Wyoming, where the deer and the antelope may soon have less room to play.; Points of View Environmentalists and energy developers see different things when they look at large, pristine swaths of the American West, like these diverse ecosystems in and around the Jack Morrow Hills. (Karin Apollonia Mueller/Focus, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); MAMMALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); OIL EXTRACTION (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); DESERTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); RIVERS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (59%) FOREST SERVICE (US); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%) FREY, DARCY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%) ROCKY MOUNTAINS; WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



662 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: This Year, the Action Is Just Off the Highway 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON with SUSAN CATTO; PHILIP SHENON is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The Times. SUSAN CATTO contributes to The Times from Toronto.

 BODY:
MAYBE it's patriotism. Maybe it's fear of terrorism. But for many Americans planning a summer vacation, the destination this year will probably be closer to home, and it is more likely to be reached by car, offering some welcome news to the tourism industry in parts of the United States where drive-in tourism came close to collapse in the weeks and months after Sept. 11.
 From South Dakota, where state tourism officials are predicting a crush of visitors to gaze on the stony presidential profiles at Mount Rushmore, to the Green Mountains of Vermont, where bed-and-breakfast inns are reporting a surge of summer reservations, there is relief over opinion surveys showing that Americans are eager to travel again, especially within this country. 
 Because business travel across the nation is still in a slump, due both to Sept. 11 and to the economic downturn, the leisure travelers hitting the nation's highways will be especially welcome. 
"The fact is that we've had significantly more demand from vacation leisure guests," said Craig Jacobs, marketing director of the Hotel del Coronado, in Coronado, Calif., the fabled 114-year-old ocean-front resort across the bay from San Diego. And most of the new visitors, he said, are "coming from our region, which is to say San Diego, Orange County, Los Angeles, also from San Francisco."
He said that while the information was anecdotal, his reservations agents were being told by guests that they wanted summer vacations closer to home instead of long holidays to exotic locations.
Other visitors, he said, were motivated to find a destination that could be reached by car because of a perception that the nation's airports have been transformed into armed camps as a result of tightened security. "Even more than the fear of flying because of terrorism, the thing that's motivating people is hassle avoidance," he said. 
After the national trauma of the last year, many travelers are reporting a need for a vacation destination this summer that focuses on relaxation and a sense of escaping to nature.
Darcie McCann, executive director of the Northeast Kingdom Chamber of Commerce, the picturesque three-county region in northeastern Vermont that is a hub of the state's tourism industry, said that many people planning visits to Vermont this summer say they are determined to find a destination "removed from everything else." While the chamber does not have detailed tourism projections for the summer, she said that the visits to its tourism Web site have more than doubled since last year.
"People are coming here to relax, to do outdoor activities," she said. "We're having a lot more people coming into the area to hike or bike -- that's really popular right now." 
At the Mississquoi Riverbend bed-and-breakfast in Troy, Vt., Paul Becker, the owner, reports that his reservations are up 30 percent from last year, and neighboring inns are equally optimistic about the summer tourism season.
At Twin Farms, the luxury country inn in Barnard, Vt., where rates begin at $900 a night, business has held steady, despite a drop-off in visitors arriving by air.
"Knock wood, we haven't really been adversely affected by anything that's gone on," said Anne Black Cone, a spokeswoman for the resort, where occupancy rates usually run at about 80 percent year round. "One thing we do find is that because people are wanting to travel more via car or train, we're seeing a lot more last-minute reservations because they don't need to book a flight."
The National Park Service said that it was expecting full campgrounds at most major parks this year, typical of years past. But in terms of the overall number of visitors, the forecasts are mixed. 
"We get 286 million visitors a year, and about 40 million are international, and that has been down since Sept. 11," said David Barna, the Park Service's chief of public affairs.
He said there had been a dramatic decrease in the number of visitors at parks that tend to be destinations for foreign travelers, like Yosemite and Grand Canyon, but that the number of visitors had jumped at parks easy to reach by car from major population centers, for example, Shenandoah National Park, not far from Washington.
Various opinion polls conducted in recent weeks by the travel industry support the trend toward travel closer to home. 
A survey released in mid-May by the nonprofit Travel Industry Association of America, found that 47 percent of the 1,300 people interviewed said they planned to stick closer to home this summer. RoperASW, the New York research firm, found in its summer travel survey that two-thirds of Americans were planning spring and summer vacations this year, and that 82 percent of them planned to stay within the continental United States. 
American Express found in its annual summer travel survey that 52 percent of the people it surveyed planned to spend vacation time with family and friends, up 3 percent from last year, and that there would be more short weekend trips. The survey found that the average American traveler planned to travel four weekends this year, up from three last year. 
Accenture, the consulting firm, found that 77 percent of the people it surveyed planned to drive during some part of their trip, up 22 percent from a year ago. The emphasis on road travel may explain why car-rental rates have risen sharply across much of the country.
The Accenture survey of 1,000 people also reported a large jump in the number of travelers who planned to stay in economy hotels, a reflection of economic conditions and of the location of lower-priced hotels, which tend to be closer to highways and major roads than their luxury competitors. The survey found that one-fifth of its respondents planned to stay in an economy hotel chain this summer, up 49 percent over 2001; 38 percent of the people surveyed planned to stay in mid-priced hotels, an increase of 30 percent.
Wayne Wielgus, senior vice president of Choice Hotels International, the parent company of several economy hotel chains, including Comfort Inns, Sleep Inns and Rodeway Inns, characterizes the company's mood as cautiously optimistic. He said it hoped for occupancy to match that of last year, and possibly be a bit better. 
"We've started to see a continual climb in reservations volume over the last few weeks," he said. "People are out on the road, close to our hotels."
Among foreign destinations, Canada and Mexico are expected to benefit from the growing preference for car travel, and for vacations closer to home.
The Canadian Tourism Commission said that in the first quarter of the year, the number of American visitors to Canada increased by 8.2 percent over the same three-month period last year, while the number of overnight visitors arriving by car was up 11 percent in February, the latest month for which figures were available. 
"Americans view Canada as the safest destination," said Jim Watson, head of the commission. "There's a comfort level. The language is the same and it's not too far away."
The projections are not so rosy for destinations within the United States that are heavily dependent on air travel, like Hawaii, Las Vegas and some of the theme parks in Orlando. New York City is continuing to struggle to attract big-spending visitors; hotel occupancy is returning to normal levels, but average daily rates have dropped by 10 percent or more in recent months, to $192 a night in April.
Many luxury hotels in other major cities are also expecting a difficult summer, since they are more dependent on business travelers and on visitors who arrive by plane. Some of the best vacation values in the country are available in Northern California, especially San Francisco, which was hammered long before Sept. 11 by the drop-off in business travel caused by the dot-com bust.
The Internet hotel site www .hotelres.com, which specializes in San Francisco hotels, has recently posted budget rates through the summer at luxury, even legendary hotels, including the Westin St. Francis (as low as $115 a night) on Union Square and the Mark Hopkins ($159 a night) at the top of Nob Hill.
In Southern California, the outlook is brighter, in part because of the region's more varied economic base and the much larger local population.
Shutters on the Beach, a luxury oceanside hotel in Santa Monica, is reporting a 19 percent jump in domestic visitors to the hotel this year over 2001. 
"Phoenix and San Francisco are new feeder markets for us," said Armella Stepan, the general manager. "California has a lot to offer, and I think Californians have just figured out that they should check out their own backyard for a change."
Shannon Turner Brooks, communications manager at the Santa Barbara Conference and Visitors Bureau, said that she was delighted by the news that a large convention had decided to shift its location this fall from Monaco to Santa Barbara because of concern about overseas travel. "Trading the French Riviera for the American Riviera was a win-win situation for the client and for our destination," she said.
Across town, Tom Beedon, the general manager of the Santa Barbara Inn, said that he was aiming his marketing campaign this year at local travelers who would come by car. 
"I think people feel just like I do," he said. "I was thinking about taking a vacation to Hawaii this summer but now I'm reconsidering and thinking of going camping in Yosemite. I'd rather stay close to home. Don't ask me why. I just would. Wouldn't you?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: American travel to Canada has risen. These hikers are in Banff, Alberta. San Francisco offers vacation bargains. (Rick Rudnick/Lonely Planet Images); (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LODGING (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TOURISM (89%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HIKING (77%); COUNTIES (76%); MOUNTAINS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AIRPORTS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CATTO, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



663 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
 Summer is when families need a price break on travel. Consider these:

HAWAIIAN CONNECTION -- The 521-room Outrigger Wailea Resort on the southern coast of Maui offers two connecting rooms for the price of one, as well as free meals for children 12 and under through Aug. 15. Children can also take advantage of the daily Kids' Club program, as well as five pools. The Kids Connect Free and Eat Free program is $425 to $525 a night per pair of rooms, plus tax. Availability is limited and there is no minimum stay required. Information: (800) 367-2960 or www.outriggerwailea.com.

EUROPE BY RAIL -- Kids love trains, and the faster the better. Rail Europe has two fare plans this summer that cater to them. On the high-speed Thalys train, which connects major cities in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany, one adult traveling in first class can take along up to four children 12 or younger at no extra charge, from July 15 to Aug. 31. This applies to certain routes only, and tickets must be issued in North America by Aug. 31. One-way first-class fares include $116 between Paris and Brussels, $156 between Paris and Amsterdam. The other Rail Europe children's special is on the 186-mile-an-hour Eurostar, which links London with Paris and Brussels. Passengers younger than 18 can travel one way in first class for $50 when accompanied by an adult using a full-fare ($269) or Leisure fare ($219) first-class ticket. The regular first-class fare for ages 4 to 11 is $109 (children under 4 are free unless they occupy a seat). Tickets must be issued in North America by July 31 for travel through Aug. 31. Information: (800) 387-6782 or www.raileurope.com.

CANADA BY RAIL -- So your kids love trains, but you aren't going to Europe. VIA Rail Canada offers an option closer to home: Through Aug. 31, adults with a regular economy-class ticket can take a child age 2 to 11 free. Typical one-way fares from Montreal are $78 to Toronto and $42 to Quebec (at $1.56 Canadian to the U.S. dollar). Reservations must be made at least five days ahead, and other conditions apply; (888) 842-7245 or www.viarail.ca/offers.

HYATT OFFER -- Through August, 16 Hyatt resorts in the United States and the Caribbean have a variety of add-ons. At the Hyatt Regency Maui, the seventh night is free (rates start at $315 a night), or get a second room from $157.50. The Hyatt Regency Coconut Point near Naples, Fla., gives the third night free (rates from $200 a night), and a second room is $100. In Puerto Rico, the fifth night is free at the Hyatt Cerromar (rates from $210 a night), with a second room $105. Other extras are free meals for children under 12 dining with an adult and free golf for those under 17 with a paying adult. Details: www.hyatt .com; reservations: (800) 554-9288. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (79%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (74%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (74%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (74%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (74%)

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); NAPLES, FL, USA (78%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (53%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (53%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (69%); QUEBEC, CANADA (53%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (91%); CANADA (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



664 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Play Dates With Destiny

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN; Virginia Heffernan is a senior editor at Harper's Magazine and the television columnist for Slate.com.

 BODY:
ON Wednesday, a trio of speedy mini-heroes flies off television sets to invade the summer matinee. Make way for "The Powerpuff Girls Movie." But who are these strange creatures that mesmerize little girls?
 The Powerpuff Girls are high-minded Blossom, hot-tempered Buttercup and sweetie-pie Bubbles -- sister supertots who fight crime in a cartoon metropolis called Townsville. Round, bug-eyed and knee high, they look, happily, nothing like the pop idols Britney Spears and Mandy Moore. They don't talk about lip gloss and working out -- and they are unlikely to try low-slung jeans on their circular, op-art bodies. Instead, the Powerpuff Girls enjoy airborne antics, saving their city and then wrecking it again. 
 Although the movie's writer, director and producer, Craig McCracken, says he created the Girls when he was a student at the California Institute of the Arts in 1993, fans of the animated television show know better. Onscreen, the Powerpuff Girls were synthesized in a laboratory by a chipper loner named Professor Utonium. More Darrin Stephens than Albert Einstein, the Professor mixed sugar, spice and everything nice with an accidental dose of Chemical X. Whammo! Out of his basement lab fly three cheery children shaped like balloon creations: one blonde, one brunette, one redhead.
In its broad outlines, the PG-rated "Powerpuff Girls Movie" is child-friendly. The Girls get into trouble playing tag, enlist the help of a down-and-out monkey to make amends, get into still more trouble, and finally use their might and wits to set things right.
On the screen, however, this is very rough stuff. The game of tag causes near-nuclear destruction in Townsville, tearing holes in skyscrapers and leveling city blocks with fire. The tyrannical monkey, Mojo Jojo, seems to belong in the dystopias of H. G. Wells or Aldous Huxley. And the Girls inadvertently bring their city to the brink of apocalypse. 
Mr. McCracken's Townsville seems built to be destroyed. When intact, it resembles Tomorrowland or Atlanta; it radiates edge-city efficiency and peace. The mayor, wearing spats, is bumbling and good-natured. Even the villains, who rob banks and build evil lairs, seem to help the local economy. Moreover, when Townsville is smashed to rubble, it readily springs back to life. The girls slide under their quilt by bedtime, ready to destroy the city again in the sequel.
The movie's cute, oval patterns derive in part from Japanese anime and manga -- and the ubiquitous Hello Kitty cartoons. But its violent, snickering style is pure Americana. Mr. McCracken cites the animated "Underdog," Rocky and Bullwinkle and, above all, the live-action "Batman" of the 60's, which was loaded with double-entendres. "I remember watching that show with my parents and they were laughing, and I was wondering what they were laughing at," he says. "Now I watch it and still can't believe what the show got away with."
"The Powerpuff Girls Movie" does evoke that outlandish classic: bright color, wacky angles and villains who seem to be getting drunk on the set. There is even a hint of Playboy Mansion in the form of Sara Bellum, the mayor's assistant, who is literally all hair and curves. She is built to shock and seduce, as when she lasciviously sharpens her boss's pencils. This is another eye-winking kids' film, an introduction to satire, camp and innuendo.
All the leers and explosions suggest that the movie might have a sleeper audience: older boys. " 'The Powerpuff Girls' were never fully designed to appeal to kids," Mr. McCracken acknowledges. Originally, back at Cal Arts, "Chemical X" was a substance designed to turn girls into street-fighters, not city saviors. "We had to change it for obvious reasons."
To kids, as to parents, the movie may come as a welcome break in today's inescapable girl culture, which is pervaded by bare-bellied teenagers warbling about how to get a man. The Powerpuff Girls are witty, superstrong and as fast as light. True, they are not sweet summer beach bunnies. But who needs the powers of tanness and blondeness when you can fly?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bubbles, left, Blossom and Buttercup rescue Professor Utonium in "The Powerpuff Girls Movie." (Cartoon Network/Warner Brothers Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); ANIMATION (78%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CHILDREN (70%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (55%) HEFFERNAN, VIRGINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

TITLE: POWERPUFF GIRLS MOVIE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



665 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO; 
A Story of Hope and Horror on Romania's Streets

BYLINE:  By NANCY RAMSEY 

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT the summer of 1999, in a quiet 11th-floor editing room in Manhattan, Edet Belzberg and Jonathan Oppenheim -- director and editor of "Children Underground," a documentary about street children in Romania -- sorted through 100 hours of video Ms. Belzberg had shot in Bucharest. It reflected the chaos and horror in the lives of a handful of children living together in the center of the city.
 Mr. Oppenheim watched as children mutilated themselves, slashing their arms with broken glass, out of desperation or anger; he watched as they were beaten by shopkeepers; he watched as a beautiful girl with large, vulnerable eyes sniffed Aurolac, a metallic paint, from a bag. 
 "What Edet first showed me was so horrifying, so raw, so alien and so unremitting, I didn't think there was a film there," Mr. Oppenheim said. "How do you tell a story about people who are only involved in meeting their primitive, basic needs on the street? But after about 10 hours of footage, the doors of their individual lives opened." 
What emerged in "Children Underground," which was nominated for an Academy Award this year and will be shown on Cinemax on July 9, was the story of five children, ages 8 to 16. Their beds were flattened-out cardboard boxes, their home a subway station whose name, Piata Victoriei, or Victory Square, provided a grim, sardonic commentary on Romanian society following the end of the brutal regime of Nicolae Ceausescu, who was executed in 1989. To increase the country's work force, Ceausescu had outlawed contraception and abortion, with the result that thousands of unwanted children were put in crude state-run orphanages, from which many fled. In the 90's, as the economy collapsed, poverty, abuse, neglect and alcoholism sent a second wave of children onto the streets, fleeing their families.
"I wanted the film to show what a struggle the children's daily lives are -- to get up, to get food, to be safe for a few hours," Ms. Belzberg said a few weeks ago, taking a break from work on a new documentary about three female American gymnasts preparing for the 2000 Olympics. "I wanted to show the horror and the moments of hope, the moments when the children could have been helped."
Ms. Belzberg, who lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, has shoulder-length brown hair, dresses simply but elegantly in black or grey and, at 32, conveys enough youthfulness that it's not hard to understand why a street child in Bucharest once asked her where she slept. She first went to Romania in 1997, after earning a master's degree from Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and reading an article about street children. She decided to address the subject in film, and called several agencies, including Childhope International, which provides help to organizations working with street children. Marilyn Rocky, Childhope's executive director, supplied her with contacts in Romania.
"There had been stories about the orphanages, but the issue of street children was just emerging," said Ms. Rocky, who estimates that Bucharest today has up to 3,000 children living on the street and up to 10,000 who work on the street but go home at night.
On her first trip, Ms. Belzberg visited children in day clinics and scoured abandoned buildings, street corners and subway stations. The following spring she returned, with financing from the Soros Foundation. A day before her cameraman, Wolfgang Held, arrived from New York, she met a blonde girl named Ana, 10, at a day clinic. Ana introduced Ms. Belzberg to her brother, Marian, 8; both lived in Piata Victoriei among a group of children led by Christina, a 16-year-old girl who shaved her head, dressed as a boy and made money by unloading sodas for kiosk operators. Ana was more or less second in command. "Ana was cunning and street-smart, but childlike," Ms. Belzberg said. "She always wanted to hold someone's hand. When she would smile or laugh, her laughter was like that of a child anywhere, it wasn't weighted by anything."
There were children living in subway stations all over the city, but part of what made this group approachable, Mr. Held said, was the fact that "it was run by girls and was less violent. Once you got into the territory of prostitution and harder drugs, kids had knives, and now I'm sure they have guns."
For Ms. Belzberg, the children at Piata Victoriei had "this undying spirit." She and Mr. Held spent six weeks filming -- a typical day began at 9:30 a.m. and ended at 2 or 3 the next morning -- trying to capture that spirit, and the horrors, on tape.
In addition to Christina, Ana and Marian, the documentary focuses on Macarena, 14, and Mihai, 12. Macarena, who like Christina grew up in an orphange, introduces herself by explaining the origins of her name: "In the streets and in the orphanage . . . I dance too much to the Macarena. I am the most street child. The most Aurolac kid. If I get one bottle, I'm no longer hungry. It's like paradise."
Mihai liked poetry and science, didn't inhale Aurolac and tried to attend school regularly. His father once chained him to the radiator to prevent his running away. "I want good to happen to me, not evil," he says.
Ana, Marian and Mihai were part of the second wave of children living on the streets of Bucharest, those who had run away from families hit by the economy's collapse in the early 90's. "The children feel it's safer on the streets, that they have more control over their lives," said Sheldon Levy, a clinical psychologist at Brown University's medical school, who has worked with Childhope. "Bad things have happened to them within four walls."
Yet on the street "there were often three or four crises happening at one time," said Mr. Held, who contracted tuberculosis while in Bucharest (Ms. Belzberg got lice and scabies). Added Ms. Belzberg, "Everything is a moment away from igniting." Although the crew would step in before a child was seriously hurt -- in the film we see the translator grab Mihai as he cuts himself -- they refrained in most cases. Those sequences, when a moment ignites, when a child is beaten, are the most painful to watch, and Ms. Belzberg has been questioned at festivals about her decision not to intervene.
"The film is a fraction of what these children endure," she said. "They have been abandoned by their parents, ignored by society. If I intervened one time, 10 times, a hundred times, it would have made very little difference. My greatest power was to show what was happening to them, to have people see them as individuals, not as subhuman or as animals, which is how they were treated. I remember that after a man beat Macarena, I said to Wolfgang, 'Get his face on camera.' "
Mostly, the film has drawn praise. In addition to the Oscar nomination, it won the special jury prize for documentaries at the Sundance Film Festival last year, and it has been shown at many other festivals.
Ms. Belzberg has returned to Romania three times since 1998 -- twice in 1999 (sequences shot then became the film's epilogue) and once in the summer of 2001. "That summer, you didn't see paint stains on the children, but needle marks," she said. "And girls were pregnant. Now you see families living on the street." Christina was using heroin; she now has a baby. The word on the street was that Ana was pregnant and prostituting herself; Ms. Belzberg couldn't find her and never learned if the reports were true, though she recently received a photograph of Ana with her mother and her mother's new twins. Marian is in a residential home. Mihai has been in and out of homes, but is now on the street. Macarena -- who when she met Ms. Belzberg in 1998 had said, "Please show people what is happening here" -- is still on the streets, getting high on Aurolac.
"I think what you see in the film are the best years of the children's lives," Ms. Belzberg said. "The children were still innocent. They still had hope. Their feeling was, tomorrow we could go to the park. Tomorrow we could go to the pool. Even though we were beaten three times today, tomorrow might be better."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edet Belzberg, left, documented the lives of five Romanian street children, including the runaways Marian, 8, and his sister Ana, 10, in "Children Underground," which was nominated for an Academy Award. (Edet Belzberg); (HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); FAMILY (77%); FILM (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); ABORTION (64%); LABOR FORCE (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (62%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (62%); ATHLETES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: RAMSEY, NANCY; BELZBERG, EDET; OPPENHEIM, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) ROMANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) ROMANIA

TITLE: CHILDREN UNDERGROUND (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



666 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Their Stage Is a Box, Their Music Exquisite

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BECKERMAN 

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, Calif. 

 BODY:
CHRISTIAN ERIC takes out a musical snuffbox by Nicoles Freres, probably from the early 1820's. It is a perfect example of the Nicole brothers' craft. Consisting of a barrel some three inches long and a shiny steel comb with 65 teeth, it is an inch and three-quarters wide and less than an inch tall. It plays for 45 seconds or more.
 The music starts, and we hear a simple arrangement of the French children's song "Au Claire de la Lune." But wait. There's an astonishing little flourish before the final phrase and a repeat with variation. The tune drops an octave, with virtuoso scale passages on top and charming harmonic turns to the minor. It is a miniature masterpiece. 
 Mr. Eric, along with his wife, Kathleen, is the proprietor of Antique Music Box Restoration. He fixes, restores and collects mechanical music-making devices. His home in this city south of Los Angeles is part turtle habitat, part music-box workshop and part private museum. Exquisite rarities are carefully filed on shelves; others lie about, seemingly at random. They may have as much to say about the Classical era as many a composed masterwork. 
The makers had to find a way to get these musical instruments into the marketplace, and the primary vehicle was the snuffbox. The one first heard is No. 1,363 -- the 1,363rd instrument made by the Nicoles. Mr. Eric holds up another snuffbox, a small tortoise-shell object that looks as if it were made yesterday. The technology of these cylinder music boxes probably did not exist before 1805; the first historical mention of the music box was 1796.
But what about the musical clock, for which Mozart wrote his Adagio and Allegro (K. 594) and Andante (K. 616) some five years earlier? Mr. Eric points to his left without looking. That one over there was the kind Mozart used. It was made in 1780, but in Switzerland, so it's unlikely that he used this particular one. Musical clocks use a different technology, Mr. Eric explains, and are, in fact, organs or sometimes carillons.
It is jarring to find this elegant yet informal collection here, hard by superhighways, Disneyland and upscale shopping malls. Yet the mall is not a bad place to ponder the modern fate of the music box, which has been reborn as an ersatz vintage collectible in this age of nostalgia. In greeting-card stores around the country, people buy knockoff boxes that play "Home Sweet Home" (the commonest music-box theme, Mr. Eric says), "Lara's Theme" from "Dr. Zhivago" and almost anything else you can imagine, usually in tinny sound. Thousands of Christmas boxes, often combined with snow globes, play seasonal music as Snow White or Santa spins slowly.
Kathleen Eric, herself a gifted woodcarver, music-box technician and collector, loathes snow globes. "What I really hate," she says, "is when someone comes to the store asking me to put water back in their snow globe."
Christian Eric, though soft-spoken, also has his betes noires. "My biggest gripe," he said, "is when a decorator arrives with 10 grand to spend, finds a stunning old music box and says: 'That's just what I want. Do you have it in a different color?' "
Reaching into a large display case, he points to the works of a music box about a foot long with a huge cylinder. It has 201 notes and can play a two-and-a-half-minute overture. It was made by Francois Nicole, a distant relative of the brothers Nicole. It dates from about 1825 and represents a great advance over the little snuffboxes.
He touches a lever, and out comes the fugue from Mozart's "Magic Flute" Overture, as if Papageno had suddenly taken a smart potion and were tinkling out the overture on his magic bells. Here is a vastly different conception from the snuffbox; suddenly we are listening to an extended passage of serious music. This is possibly the oldest overture music box ever made. And Francois Nicole devised the technology for it.
Mr. Eric plays another box, from a musical clock. A thin sound comes out. It doesn't compare musically, having fewer teeth on the comb and far fewer bass notes. Francois Nicole invented the damper that allowed bass notes to be played without extraneous noise. The 1830's proved the high point of the music-box industry, not in volume but in virtuosity.
What do we know about these early music-box pioneers? Lots, it turns out, but there is much that we don't know. They were obviously excellent musicians. You cannot produce a thing like this without being a musician. Many who thought they would like to get into the music-box business gave up, because too much musicianship was involved.
Mr. Eric says that the mechanical aspect, which most people would consider complicated, is actually the simplest part. Clockmakers have known for centuries how to produce such mechanisms and count the gearing. The hard part is laying out the music, producing a musical comb and tuning it accurately. You have to figure out where each note of a measure of music fits on the surface of the cylinder and then carefully dimple the spot to be drilled. If you have repeated notes, you may need several teeth playing the same note. All this must be meticulously planned long before you get out your tiny drill press to create places for the pins.
Mr. Eric pulls out an old piece of manuscript paper. (He has perhaps the largest collection of music-box manuscripts in the world.) It shows "Che bell'istoria," an aria from Meyerbeer's "Robert le Diable." He patiently shows how the arranger creates the scale of notes to be used (the gamme) and plans the exact length of the piece. Manuscript measures are numbered, because only X number of measures will fit in a rotation of a given cylinder. To add measures, you have to increase their speed.
One is struck by the range of styles and shapes of boxes. There are musical harps, huge clocks and tiny watches, snuffboxes, patch-boxes and sewing kits called "necessaires." (One of these, from the beginning of the 19th century, plays a haunting Irish folk song.) There are bird boxes that chirp, musical automatons and an endless variety of musical trinkets. Mr. Eric takes out a ladies' brooch from 1815 in the shape of a watch, with a little disc called a "sur plateau" movement. It plays a tiny march.
Mr. Eric wants us to know that the phonograph is a reproducing machine. But the music box is a musical instrument. Every time you play a music box it gives a fresh performance. He pulls down an African thumb piano, the only other instrument in the world that uses the same principle to make sound.
We walk past mechanical birds in mechanical cages, eight-foot-tall musical disc players, an English street organ from the last century, a three-foot-tall model of a Gothic cathedral, hand-carved in wood and tremendously detailed. "I think the sound of this one is unique," Mr. Eric said, lifting the church off its base to expose the works. "The farther you walk away from it, the more it sounds like an organ. It is what we call a 'supermandolin' box. It is also known as an 'organocleide.' "
I point to a strange-looking contraption with metal discs. The discs are the oldest surviving playable recordings of sound. The phonograph was made in 1878 by Augustus Stroh, a German watchmaker who spent most of his life in London. He hooked up with William Preece, who was in charge of the Royal Telegraph Engineers and represented the cutting-edge technology of the time. Preece employed Stroh to produce a machine that would analyze and synthetically reproduce vowel sounds.
Each disc has the sound engraved into the edge and is played with a stylus and a diaphragm. Mr. Eric turns the little crank at the end. A vague blur of sound. He tries again, now faster, now slower. Finally "papa" comes out. "Papa, papa, papa." There are discs for mama as well, and for a large number of vowel sounds. It is a primitive machine, and seeing it sit innocently amid all the stunning musical technology, one may forget that it eventually killed the music-box industry deader than a doornail, until its pale resurrection as a kitsch collectible.
As we leave the room, Mr. Eric points to a small, ornate object. This is a gold snuffbox that Napoleon ordered for one of his generals just after the Austrian campaign in 1809. It is extraordinary: a watch as well as a music box. The watch chimes every 15 minutes, and the separate music box plays either as an alarm or on command. The device turned up in Moscow, where the general was probably killed in Napoleon's ill-fated Russian offensive.
A century ago, music boxes accounted for a full 10 percent of the Swiss economy. Would it be feasible to make one of comparable quality today? Mr. Eric shakes his head. "We have to appreciate how labor-intensive the process is," he said. "The larger ones you see would have taken anywhere from 500 to 2,000 hours to make. If you spend that long making a machine, how can it ever be worth it to the maker? Even at minimum wage, these boxes today could cost tens of thousands in labor alone."
As it is, the finer historic boxes sell in the tens of thousands. More commonplace instruments start at around $1,500.
Out on the freeway, driving past the beaches and megamalls, I remember Mr. Eric's first words: "They were working within a specific compass of music and a short duration of time, and they had to be clever to make that tiny bit of music interesting." Then, as now, some things were better than others. But turn the keys or pull the levers to wind the mainsprings of the best of them. Switch them on, let them play, and listen carefully. What comes out is the only bona fide live musical performance from the early 19th century you will ever hear.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An early-19th-century musical snuffbox made by Nicoles Freres. (Christian Eric)(pg. 34); Christian Eric, above, collects and restores mechanical music-making devices, like a "super-mandolin" musical clock, right, circa 1870, and a gold snuffbox, below, ordered by Napoleon. (Christian Eric); (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (88%); CHRISTMAS (79%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (67%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (64%); RETAILERS (60%) MUSIC BOXES; ANTIQUES 

ORGANIZATION: ANTIQUE MUSIC BOX RESTORATION (CO) 

PERSON: ERIC, CHRISTIAN; BECKERMAN, MICHAEL; ERIC, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%); SWITZERLAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



667 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2109 words

HEADLINE: A Harlem Renaissance With Broadway Partners 

BYLINE:  By PETER MARKS 

 BODY:
AMID the excruciating stops and starts of a technical rehearsal, as lights were being adjusted and missing actors located and musical cues played over and over, the director George C. Wolfe paused to take in the view. Climbing out of the darkness of the orchestra, he mounted a tiny staircase and planted himself at center stage of one of the most celebrated theaters in the world, the Apollo.
 "Come and take a look up here," Mr. Wolfe said to a visitor as he stared wide-eyed out into the expanse of the 89-year-old Harlem landmark. "Isn't it fabulous? Isn't it a perfect house?" 
 It is the house that Ella built. And the Duke and the Count and Sarah Vaughan and Pearl Bailey and Moms Mabley and James Brown and Stevie Wonder. And now, fittingly, Mr. Wolfe, who is also producer of the Joseph Papp Public Theater, was in the house. He had come uptown on a mission: to write and direct an original musical about Harlem, in Harlem, a show that would give the Apollo a Broadway kind of swagger -- and maybe, too, a vast new audience. 
The idea behind "Harlem Song," a 90-minute production that through music and dance tells the story of the artistic and social changes that have taken place in Harlem over the past century, is revolutionary for the theater. Mr. Wolfe is relying on his team from two of his Broadway hits, "Bring in da Noise, Bring in da Funk" and "Jelly's Last Jam." How often have Broadway writers, composers and designers developed a big, brash musical for someplace other than Broadway? 
The scale of the $4 million musical, which begins performances at the Apollo on Saturday, is also revolutionary for Harlem. Opening as the theater completes a $13 million makeover, and at a time of robust expectation for the economic and cultural revitalization of the neighborhood, the musical has become a symbol of rebirth.
A consortium of Harlem institutions, from the Harlem Boys Choir to the Dance Theater of Harlem, has agreed to cross-promote "Harlem Song" with their own programs. Tour groups are adding the musical to their Manhattan packages. Even celebrities with an interest in Harlem's artistic invigoration have invested in the show or are lending their voices in support.
"I cannot recall since the 1930's an attempt like this being made," declared Harry Belafonte, who has enlisted as an ambassador for the show to the schools. "When the leading black director in America says he wants to reach into his wealth of knowledge and artistry, trying to establish a rhythm with this community, then we have to pull out all the stops to help."
"Harlem Song" is a money-making enterprise, of course. Its producing team includes concert promoters, Broadway producers, the actress Whoopi Goldberg and the musician Herb Alpert. But it arrives at a significant moment in the redevelopment of Harlem, a process that has been going on for a decade or more. Block after block of brownstones are being reclaimed, and mainstream chains like Starbucks and Old Navy have moved in. Bill Clinton has an office there. 
Plans are being discussed for other retail and entertainment complexes; jazz festivals and multi-screen movie theaters have sprung up, and tourists from Europe and Japan are hopping off subways and tour buses in ever growing numbers to sample gospel services and soul food.
"From the streets being torn up and new technology being placed underground, to buildings that were old and abandoned being opened up, to people looking for new loft space, I think it's all dramatic and very real," said Patricia Cruz, executive director of Aaron Davis Hall, a performing arts center on the campus of the City College of New York between 133rd and 135th Streets.
Aaron Davis Hall is one of nine members of the Harlem Strategic Cultural Collaborative, the consortium that is working with the musical. In return, the umbrella group receives $1 from each ticket sold. To Ms. Cruz, however, the show's biggest contribution to the community may be as a messenger to the world, a showcase for the artistic richness of Harlem. It is almost as if the production itself were an agent for urban renewal.
"We have been enduring a bad rap for too long a time," Ms. Cruz said. "Unfortunately, culture, and cultures, are very much put in the context of real estate and economic value. And we have struggled for a long time to gain recognition for what organizations and individuals here have done. We saw 'Harlem Song' as a production that will enable people to come up here, and see."
Mr. Wolfe is staging the production on a spare, bilevel set. In a series of musical numbers that proceed chronologically, the 14-member cast, which includes Broadway veterans like B. J. Crosby and newcomers like David St. Louis and Queen Esther, tells the intertwining stories of a culture's contributions and a community's struggle, from the Jazz Age to the civil rights era. Overhead are a pair of screens onto which vintage photos are projected. Between numbers, the screens are used for "testimonials" -- filmed interviews with longtime Harlem residents, a la the work of the documentary filmmaker Ken Burns.
"Harlem Song" was born on the lips of a businessman. John Schreiber, a longtime rock promoter, a co-founder of the Toyota Comedy Festival and sometime Broadway producer, had just produced a series on VH-1, "Hard Rock Live," when he fell into conversation with David Goodman, an executive from Warner Brothers' television division. Mr. Goodman mentioned the involvement of AOL Time Warner, his parent company, in rehabilitating the Apollo.
"He said, 'Do you see what is going on uptown with Time Warner being involved with the Apollo?' " Mr. Schreiber said, recalling his talk with Mr. Goodman. "I said, 'Wouldn't it be great to do something at the Apollo that could leverage all this activity?' "
Mr. Goodman eventually became a partner of Mr. Schreiber in the project. AOL Time Warner's chief executive, Richard D. Parsons, heads the board of the Apollo Theater Foundation, and the company, along with other major corporations, has taken a leading role in supporting the theater, which is publicly owned, as it tries to recover from longstanding financial problems.
The Apollo was in desperate need of improvements. "We've made a number of aesthetic enhancements," said David D. Rodriguez, executive director of the foundation, which operates the theater. Holes in the walls were repaired, lighting and audio systems replaced and new carpeting and upholstery installed. Work is now being done on the facade.
After Mr. Schreiber made his pitch, the Apollo, accustomed to short engagements, took an unusual step: it agreed to an open-ended one. But it stipulated that the show would have to confine a seven-performance schedule to three days a week: Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays. (The producers say their intention is to run the show until Dec. 31, and that potentially it could run for years.)
The musical must remove the sets every week and put them in storage. On the remaining days, the theater will be available for other attractions, like the amateur nights on Wednesdays that have been a fixture since the 1930's.
"We wanted to take advantage of the fact that Harlem is such a popular tourist destination," Mr. Schreiber explained. "But we had the space before we had the show. And so then the question was, 'What's the show?' " 
Enter Mr. Wolfe, whom Mr. Schreiber had approached for advice on possible directors. "A day later," Mr. Schreiber recalled, "he came back and said, 'How about me?' "
Mr. Wolfe was an easy fit. The intersection of black history and entertainment has been a specialty of his. In "Noise/Funk," for which he won a Tony Award for direction of a musical, the smothering of the dreams of black America was chronicled in rhythm and blues: a lynching victim tap-dances his final moments in one scene; in another, a black movie actor plays a demeaning second banana to a Shirley Temple mannequin. In an earlier work, his 1986 play, "The Colored Museum," he skewered the conventions of black kitchen-sink dramas like "A Raisin in the Sun."
For "Harlem Song" his approach was to be slightly less irreverent. "The exercise for me," Mr. Wolfe said, "is to make a populist piece of theater that is very theatrical and entertaining and includes the texture of historical events."
His notion was to put the music, dance and literature of Harlem into a larger context, to make a statement about the scope of the contributions of African- Americans over the decades of the 20th Century.
To Mr. Wolfe, 47, who grew up in Frankfort, Ky., and first visited New York when he was 12, Harlem remains at the vortex of black culture. The writers of the Harlem renaissance, the rise of jazz, the explosion of rap and hip-hop, all had roots there. "Black American culture is not a regional phenomenon," Mr. Wolfe said. "It's a world culture. Once, I was on some tiny peninsula in Greece, and what did I hear them playing? Whitney Houston. That's what this piece had to deal with: the world keeps coming to Harlem."
That's what the producers are counting on. "Tourism is really built on consistency, on the idea of people thinking that something is always there," said Charles Flateman, former president and owner of Gray Line, the sightseeing company, and now one of Mr. Schreiber's partners on "Harlem Song."
Mr. Flateman had long been aware of Harlem's pull for tourists, particularly those from overseas: it's one of the top destinations in New York, along with mainstays like the Statue of Liberty and Times Square. For years, the Gray Line tour guides would point out the Apollo from passing buses. What the theater lacked, he said, was a solid, marketable show that could stick around: "To make it a magnet of economic development, it needed a permanent resident theater attraction."
THERE is, of course, the question of who will come. Mr. Schreiber says the goal is a true mix: African-Americans, foreign tourists, avid theatergoers, families that come to New York four of five times a year for special attractions. In an effort to appeal to those of modest means, tickets will be available for as little as $17.50 (and as much as $60). The Gray Line will provide bus service to the theater from Times Square. Suburbanites will be wooed with the promise of free parking at a nearby garage, and a concierge will be stationed in the theater, to help ticketholders with transportation and restaurant reservations. Months ago, the producers also began an aggressive campaign to enlist those who arrange group ticket sales for black and Latino organizations, and last week they started running advertisements emphasizing Harlem as a destination.
"Hey, the Statue of Liberty is fabulous," Whoopi Goldberg says in a radio spot broadcast on five New York stations. "But can that girl sing and dance? I don't think so."
On a recent, sultry Friday, Mr. Wolfe sat in the orchestra of the Apollo as "Harlem Song" took shape. On the upper level of the two-tiered set designed by Riccardo Hernandez, the musical's opening sequence was being rehearsed. The nine-piece band struck up the first notes of a score that includes both original melodies (by Daryl Waters and Zane Mark) and a few period songs, some with new lyrics written by Mr. Wolfe.
In the opening moments, a pair of dancers, silhouetted on a white screen, performed an elegant cakewalk, setting the tone for a multi-media stroll through the 20th century. Milestones fly by in a series of songs: the birth of the Harlem renaissance is choreographed (by Ken Roberson) to a rag; the libertine 1920's come to life in a Cotton Club number; a jazz singer scats to the jabs and uppercuts delivered in the prizefight between Max Schmeling and Joe Louis; a 1943 riot is played out in the language of jive.
Mr. Wolfe is put off by the idea that the show might have grown out of some civic responsibility. "That's too cheap and suffocating," he said. What motivated him instead was the idea that a culture managed to thrive amid the suffering. "It's a feeling that I can't live inside yesterday's pain and I can't live without it," he said. "To me, what the piece is really about is the regenerative power of community."
Virtually all 14 members of the all-black cast are too young to remember many of the events depicted in "Harlem Song." Still, the musical is giving them a visceral feel for a century-long struggle.
"I'm thinking about the things that black people had to go through just to make it," said Queen Esther, a versatile actress who plays the roles of a Harlem gossip and a young woman evicted during the Depression. "I'm so moved by how much we survived."

Harlem Song
Apollo Theater,
253 West 125th Street.
Through Dec. 31.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Delandis McClam, Randy Andre' Davis, Queen Esther, Gabriel Croom and Keith Thomas with other cast members of "Harlem Song" at the Apollo Theater. Performances begin Saturday. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 1); George C. Wolfe, with arms raised, directing a rehearsal of "Harlem Song" at the Apollo Theater. (Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); DANCE (73%); WRITERS (72%) THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (91%) APOLLO THEATER (NYC) 

PERSON: WOLFE, GEORGE C; MARKS, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) HARLEM (NYC)

TITLE: HARLEM SONG (REVUE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



668 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS; 
A Beautiful Tree That Shows a Sinister Side

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
DANNY BLICKENSTAFF stood in the middle of an acre of 100 royal paulownia trees planted eight years ago on his hilly 55-acre farm. The trees -- about 40 feet tall, as straight as telephone poles and eight inches in diameter -- marched down the slope like rows of corn. Mr. Blickenstaff, 56, a retired federal employee, went through the grove, which is near Hagerstown, Md., knocking any shoots off the brown speckled trunks, because these trees bring a high price for lumber. The durable, light wood can bring as much as $4 a board-foot, compared with 70 cents for black walnut, 50 cents for oak or 30 cents for pine. So it is becoming a popular hobby crop for farmer-gardeners like Mr. Blickenstaff with a bit of land. 
 "We've lost about a third of our oaks in Maryland to the gypsy moth," Mr. Blickenstaff said. "And paulownia, right now, doesn't seem to have any disease or insect problems. A locust or grasshopper might chew its leaves, but it grows so fast, that doesn't matter." 
 A native of China, paulownia was introduced to this country from Europe in the 1840's, and grown as an ornamental. It is a member of the figwort family and has nine species. But only P. tomentosa is hardy to winters as cold as minus 5 degrees. You have probably seen this tree, which has widely naturalized from Maine to Texas, blooming along the highways, on the sunny edge of the woods, in mid-spring. 
Commonly called the Chinese empress tree, princess tree or kiri tree, paulownia can also be grown as a yard tree, if pruned at about four feet to allow a few lateral branches to curve out from the main trunk. Such pruning will slow its growth, and result in a full canopy of large, heart-shaped leaves. Its pyramidal 10-inch trusses of lavender-blue flowers bloom in mid-May and smell like honeysuckle. 
The tree also makes an odd-ball tropical-like ornamental in the garden, if coppiced, or cut back hard in the winter, to force new leaves to sprout every spring. If grown this way, the short trunk will soon grow green branches with huge, three-feet-wide heart-shaped leaves. 
Mr. Blickenstaff, however, like a growing number of foresters, sees this tree as a lucrative economic plant. 
"These trees grew about 15 feet the first year and another 20 feet the second year," Mr. Blickenstaff, the president of the American Paulownia Association, said, patting one of the round trunks. "That's 35 feet in two years." At about 40 feet, the tree starts to grow more slowly, with an umbrella-like canopy. But it bears all the marks of an invasive plant: wind-dispersed seeds that thrive in disturbed areas. If given plenty of sun and good drainage, they take off like a rocket. 
About half of the 6,000 to 10,000 acres of paulownia estimated to be growing in the United States are wild, or in this case, naturalized. "Those are in Appalachia," Mr. Blickenstaff said. "The rest are plantation grown." 
These so-called wild trees bring the highest price on the market: from $6 to $10 a board foot, because the more slow-growing wood is even more durable, with interesting patterns on its pale light wood. It makes fine furniture and doors, window frames, roof beams and trim for houses, and can be easily carved into canes, canoe paddles and dulcimers and such. It's great for model airplanes. Jimmy Carter grows about 13 acres of paulownia on his farm near Plains, Ga. Forest schools in the South, including Virginia Tech, North Carolina State University and the University of Tennessee, are growing this tree in field trials, because of its economic potential. 
But the National Park Service views it as an "ecological threat," due to its ability to grow "rapidly in disturbed natural areas, including forests, stream banks and steep rocky slopes (see www.nps.gov /plants/alien). The Tennessee Exotic Pest Plant Council lists it as an invasive species. Its ability to quickly colonize disturbed habitats, like forests defoliated by gypsy moths, or scoured riparian zones, indicates that it could compete with rare, native plants already under siege from pollution, insects and disease. Yet growers like Mr. Blickenstaff insist that paulownia is a valuable tree that can be easily controlled, if grown in the right place. 
"I grow it on these grassy hills, where the seeds don't easily germinate," he said. "I think park services call it invasive, because you can't cut a tree out of a national or state park unless you declare it as a non-native invasive species." With so-called wild paulownia selling for up to $10 a board-foot, he may have a point. But this tree is a gangbuster.
The American Paulownia Association, which started in 1992, has 350 members in 23 states. 
I would like to think that this quirky plant is not invasive, because I would love to see a couple short trees with those big leaves popping up around my perennial beds. But from everything I read, it is, so I don't think I'll plant one. I was tempted to, after seeing pictures of a very interesting 48-year-old specimen tree in Dover, Del.
Mr. Blickenstaff showed off a stack of paulownia logs cut from that tree. Its massive trunk was 5 feet across at its base, and 45 feet tall. 
"I expect 800 board-feet out of these logs," Mr. Blickenstaff said. He paid $850 for the tree, and has high hopes that the cream-colored wood inside its base will be striated with thin brown lines that look like rippling water. Such patterns are created by burls, or rounded knots that develop on the outside of a tree trunk; they are treasured by wood carvers and furniture makers. 
I have a sculptor friend who peels off the bark of the young trees' branches and lets them dry. They look like translucent snake skin. 
So is it a gawky weed tree, a valuable resource, a striking material for environmental art, a menace? 
Like beauty, which lies in the eyes of the beholder, it depends on your area. But before you plant paulownia, call your local agricultural extension service and ask if it's on the invasive plant list. What acts like a thug in Tennessee may be well-behaved on Long Island, but it looks iffy to me.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sasha Meret) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); GARDENING (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (72%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



669 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
The Battered Woman Next Door

BYLINE:  By ANDREA KOTT; Andrea Kott is a writer who lives in Sleepy Hollow.

 BODY:
THE oversize sunglasses said it all. She wore them so much of the time. On cloudy days; even after the sun went down. 
 It was hard to get a good look at her face, drawn and pale, framed by matted black hair. She kept it turned away, tilted down toward a place just behind her shoulder, as if checking for a shadow. Even when she was without him, which wasn't often, she kept her eyes fixed downward. She never looked up to smile or return a greeting. She would hurry into her house and shut the door. 
 Baggy sweat pants and a thick wrap sweater swallowed her up. Only when she stood right next to him, or to the large mutt they held on a choke chain, could you tell what a sliver of a woman she was. She hardly ever spoke. She just clutched her sweater and nodded in nervous agreement to anything he said.
He never turned on her in public, but the sound of him raging at her pierced the quiet of the night, sometimes all night. Then we wouldn't see her for days, until she reappeared, her head hung low, as if looking for something lost. Over time her body shrank, her hair thinned, and purple bruises emerged from beneath the shade of her glasses. We prayed she would leave and wondered why she didn't. No one understood that leaving was the most difficult -- even dangerous -- thing for her to do.
There are dozens of misperceptions and myths about battered women, and domestic violence, in general. One of those myths -- that domestic violence does not occur among educated, upper-income families -- was shattered when 6-year-old Lisa Steinberg was found beaten to death in the Greenwich Village apartment where she lived with her successful, cocaine-smoking parents: Joel Steinberg, a lawyer, and Hedda Nussbaum, an established children's book editor. Mr. Steinberg is serving 8 1/3 to 25 years for Lisa's murder. Ms. Nussbaum, a battered woman whose face is permanently disfigured after years of Mr. Steinberg's pummeling, was spared prison because of the years of abuse she had suffered and her willingness to testify against Mr. Steinberg.
The Steinberg case is tragic proof that domestic violence can occur anywhere, including a peaceful Westchester river town, regardless of race or class. Studies show that one out of every three to four women in the United States, will be physically abused by a husband or boyfriend at some point in her life. In Westchester alone, there have been four domestic homicides in the last 12 months. In the last eight years, the Westchester district attorney's office has worked with 21,000 domestic violence victims. And that figure is an underestimate, reflecting only those cases that have gone to the criminal justice system. The majority end up in family court or go unreported. 
Few of these cases become front-page news or become publicized at all; they are confined to the realm of "private matters." Yet, whenever I read about a woman who has been battered -- to death, sometimes -- I wonder just how private these matters should be. I'm not suggesting barging in on someone's benign marital spat, but rather, sounding an alarm when a woman's life is so clearly in danger. 
A handful of us, increasingly concerned about our battered neighbor, wanted to sound such an alarm, but we didn't know how. As a first step, I called My Sisters' Place, a private, nonprofit agency in White Plains dedicated to ending abuse and violence in families, by providing community outreach and education, counseling, legal assistance, life skills training, a 24-hour hot line (800-298-72333) and shelter.
I said I was calling on behalf of a battered woman whom I wanted to help. I made a point of giving my name and address; anonymity, I feared, would suggest I was calling for myself. 
The social worker I spoke with immediately cautioned me against trying to "save" my neighbor. She explained that battered women typically are trapped in a complicated web of low self-esteem, depression or other forms of mental illness, substance abuse and economic dependence, all of which make it nearly impossible for them to disentangle themselves from their abuser. Not only would my neighbor likely reject any help, the social worker said, the offer could also infuriate her abuser, who might retaliate with even harsher abuse.
Of those battered women who were killed, 75 percent were killed trying to leave.
The social worker mailed me a thick envelope full of information about domestic violence, as well as lists of phone numbers for shelters, hot lines, and other services for battered women. She said I could try giving it to the woman or leaving it in her mailbox -- if it seemed safe. But the best thing I could do, she said, would be to share the information with anyone willing to listen.
A greater understanding of domestic violence will enable more people to help women who can safely accept help. And hopefully it will foster compassion for them.
I never found an opportunity to safely pass along the information to my neighbor, and she and her husband have since moved away. Despite the social worker's thoughtful advice, I can't help but feel that I let my neighbor down. I just hope that someone drops the number of a shelter or a hot line into her mailbox, wherever it is, soon.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (90%); HOMICIDE (86%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (86%); FAMILY (86%); FAMILY LAW (69%); CHILDREN (69%); MURDER (67%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (67%); FAMILY COURTS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); COCAINE (50%) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE 

PERSON: KOTT, ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



670 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: A School on a Dump Site Divides Hamden 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
FOR years, parents and teachers have been trying to persuade school and city leaders to tear down Hamden Middle School because it was built in 1956 on an industrial dump site filled with toxic materials like lead, arsenic and other harmful chemicals.
 But just as the town finally appears to be ready to take action and demolish the building on Newhall Street and construct a new $36 million middle school on a plush golf course, a group of neighbors -- some who live on the dump site -- are fighting to save the school. 
 They say tearing down the school would devastate a poor neighborhood by taking away a site used for numerous community events and children's programs, and that losing the school would leave a gaping hole that would be difficult to replace.
A major battle to save the existing building has been started by Councilwoman Ann Altman, a Democrat who represents the town's Fifth District, and Joe Frazier, president and founder of the Newhallville Coalition, an ad hoc group representing 125 neighborhood residents.
Mr. Frazier said that if the existing middle school was closed, the Newhallville section may never recover from the loss of a community resource. He also said he did not believe the environmental problems would be resolved unless the school remained. 
Mr. Frazier said the toxic materials could be cleaned up, not only at the school site, but in other parts of the neighborhood as well.
"All the activities in the community are centered around the middle school, and yet the people who live there have been left completely out of the loop," said Mr. Frazier, who has lived in the neighborhood for more than 20 years and sent three children through the school system, including the middle school.
"If the town believes the site is not safe for the school and wants to move it out of here, then why is it safe for the residents who live here? We believe the school is a microcosm of the community and that every effort should be made to keep it at its present site."
Those trying to save the school are vowing to fight a recommendation made June 20 by the legislative council's School Building Committee for the Council to approve construction of a new 180,000 square-foot middle school in the center of town at the Meadowbrook Golf course.
The council will make its decision later this summer or in early fall, officials said.
Some council leaders and residents in the Newhallville section that borders New Haven said they believed the existing school can be expanded to accommodate its student body, which has reached 1,000. They also said the site can be remediated.
Armed with a report from the Olin Corporation of Norwalk, one of four entities the state ruled to be responsible for the contamination, advocates for saving the school argue that the environmental problems at the site can be cleaned up.
Ms. Altman said the Olin report "convinces us more than ever the site can be remediated. We are going to do everything in our power to convince the rest of the council to continue exploring how the existing building can be saved."
Ms. Altman, who is also chairwoman of Hamden Women for Honest Government, a political action committee that heard of presentation from Olin Corporation on June 20, the same night the building committee made its recommendation, added, "The fight is just beginning and it's gaining a lot of momentum.
"It would be absolutely devastating not only to the community, but to the entire town for that school to be closed and moved to Meadowbrook."
Tom O'Brien, the environmental sites manager for Olin Corporation, made a presentation in Hamden on June 20 about other contaminated sites in Connecticut that have been redeveloped and reused. He told a group of residents that the same type of remediation could occur at Hamden Middle School.
Stanley Williams, 77, who lives in a small Cape Cod style home that was built on the dump and a swamp two blocks from the school, said he was joining the fight to save the school.
"I know it may sound crazy to some people," he said, "but it's very simple: if that school is closed this neighborhood will die. It is the only school in this community and people depend on it. If it closes, I don't even want to think about what will happen here." 
Advocates for saving the existing school point out that in 1992 the council had originally approved expansion and remediation.
"We are going to start a petition drive and write-in campaign to convince the council that what the people really want is for the school to be remediated," said Elizabeth Hayes, who has lived in the area near the school and is a member of the Newhallville Coalition. "If so many people in the northern part of Hamden don't want the school in their backyard, why not keep it in the backyard where the people really want it?"
But school and town officials insist moving the school is not only the best option, but the only solution to problems that have made remediation all but impossible.
They also said concerns about loss of the school in the community are being overstated because once the site is remediated there will be some kind of economic replacement that could include a major industrial plant or bio-tech park that could create much-needed jobs.
Alida Begina, Hamden's superintendent of schools; Ed Beaudette, the Fourth District Councilman and chairman of the council's school building committee; and Alberta Mendenhall, the council's president, all strongly argue that the current building and location are no longer viable, that a new school is the only solution that makes sense.
"We have to do what is in the best interests of everyone, not just a few people who don't seem to understand that the present middle school has outlived its usefulness and must be replaced," said Ms. Mendenhall, who represents the Third District, where the school is situated.
She also said that while the community would miss the school, losing the building would not devastate the neighborhood as some believe.
"The town must change with the times," she said. "We owe it to the middle school staff, children and families to provide a better and safer school where they won't have to feel cramped and be worrying about environmental problems. I also really believe the community will be fine and will find a way to overcome the school's loss."
The building committee selected the Meadowbrook site over a family farm on Gilbert Avenue and a wooded area behind Old Coach Highway.
Mr. Beaudette said the committee made its decision to build a new school because expanding and remediating the existing school was estimated to cost nearly $36 million, compared with a new school that would cost around $43 million.
"But a new school would have a life expectancy of about 50 years, compared to 20 years for expanding the existing school," he said. 
Ms. Begina said: "We have outgrown the school and to expand it given the remediation that would have to occur is not economically or programmatically feasible."
Donna Richetelle, president of the Hamden Middle School P.T.A., said parents and teachers would be "terribly upset after being assured there would be a new school if the council decides to remediate the existing school."
"The majority of the parents and PTA believes very strongly that the school needs to be moved, that it can't be remediated," Ms. Richetelle said. "We believe every day the children and staff have to continue at that school they are in danger, and that we need to get everyone out of that building as soon as possible."
Carol Noble, the town's councilwoman for District Eight and the former chairwoman of the building committee, said she was convinced the existing school should be saved and expanded.
"For those who say the school won't last I want to remind them that in the late 1980's a tornado came through town and it didn't budge the school because it's on highlands," Ms. Noble said. "I believe it is structurally sound and that once expanded and renovated it will last a very long time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hamden Middle School, which Stanley Williams and Ann Altman are hoping they can save. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOLF (76%); CALENDARS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); APPROVALS (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES 

COMPANY: OLIN CORP (60%)

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (60%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: WEIZEL, RICHARD; ALTMAN, ANN (COUNCILWOMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%) HAMDEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



671 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In Bantam, Rebuilding From Scratch 

BYLINE:  By FRANCES CHAMBERLAIN 

 BODY:
WHEN B/E Aerospace announced last October that it would close its factory in Bantam, about 350 people knew they would soon be looking for new jobs. The company, which shut down Feb. 28, made airplane seats and was the biggest employer in Litchfield County.
 Months later, conversations in and around Bantam still quickly turn to B/E, with many people wondering how the former employees are faring. 
 Some of them made the decision to retire, some transferred to the company's plant in Winston-Salem, N.C., under a one-year contract, and some decided to move in a completely different career direction, including going back to school.
Because the production work that was done in Bantam is now done in Kilkenny, Ireland, the B/E employees were eligible for funds for schooling or training under the federal Trade Adjustment Act, which assists employees who are laid off when a company moves overseas. 
Michael Carr of Torrington, a 25-year veteran of B/E, is now studying massage therapy at the Galen Institute in Wethersfield. 
"I didn't want to stay with the company and move to North Carolina," said Mr. Carr, who started out in the general labor pool at B/E and eventually did engineering work.
"A friend at work asked me what I was going to do when I grew up, and I'm 48 years old. I thought, 'Maybe it's time.' "
Mr. Carr started taking classes at the Galen Institute a week before his departure from B/E. "As a displaced worker I was eligible for aid," he said. "The state and federal government is helping. It all happened so easily; it's almost like it was meant to be."
Mr. Carr will graduate from Galen on July 19, and with his wife, Theresa, who is studying reflexology, is planning to open a new business.
For Betty Stevens of New Milford, losing her job at B/E after 11 years meant going through a process of self-discovery. She signed up for aptitude and personality testing and came up with a plan to attend Brewster CompuLearn in Brewster, N.Y.
"I'm studying Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Quickbooks, Photoshop, anything that would benefit me in an office environment," she said. "The state is paying for this eight-week course that costs $3,000. I haven't even looked for a job yet, but I'm confident that I'll find something."
About being laid off she said: "I'm sad that this all happened. I thought I would retire from B/E, but the situation changed and I have to go on. I'm confident that it's going to work out well for me."
Janice Donahue of Torrington, who spent 12 years at B/E, considered going back to school to study occupational therapy, but now considers herself fortunate to have found another job in manufacturing.
Her son, Raymond, who worked at B/E as a supervisor, is working at an aircraft company in Newington as a general worker.
"Unfortunately, a lot of people don't have good stories to tell," she said. "There just isn't work out there."
Ms. Donahue, who had practiced what is known as "lean manufacturing" found herself in demand at Seitz Corporation in Torrington.
"This is about how to work smarter, not harder," she said. "It's how to be more efficient and eliminate waste in production. Seitz does injection molding and has assembly for diversified products like Xerox, Harley-Davidson and windshield wipers."
"At age 56 I didn't know if I could do this in another environment, but I don't have to know what the product is; I can see waste. You know you've embraced the concept when you become even more efficient at home."
"I wish I could hear of more people having better luck at finding work," she added. "B/E gave us all classes, seminars, but it's too hard to get re-educated. I think about those people every day. They became my 'day family.' I don't see them anymore, and I know some can't find jobs; it's really sad."
Although finding other jobs has been possible for some B/E employees, others are struggling.
John Campbell of Bantam was a model maker who did prototypes and experimental work at B/E. He grew up in Manhattan, but visited Litchfield County as a child. He has lived in Bantam for more than 20 years, has two teenagers and a wife who works in Litchfield, and he is not planning to move.
"I never had to do this before, and I don't know what I want to do," Mr. Campbell said. "I just want to do something different. I'm looking at utilities companies and looking in shops for different kinds of things. A lot of people still don't have jobs.
"I've been offered some lower-paying jobs, but I'm being very selective and I wouldn't even consider relocating. I know I'm going to be traveling to Waterbury, Naugatuck or Danbury. It used to take me six minutes to get to work. But we need two salaries to pay the bills. It just doesn't happen any other way."
Mr. Campbell, a volunteer firefighter who used to be assistant chief of the Bantam Volunteer Fire Department, said the impact of B/E's closing was being felt throughout the community.
"A lot of our daytime firemen were at B/E, some of them were ambulance volunteers, and one was a safety officer," he said. "Aerospace used to let us go for fire and ambulance calls. They had an excellent policy. There were a lot of people who worked there who will be traveling out of town now, and there will be fewer people around during the day.
He added: "I love this area. My friends, my kids' friends are here." 
A. Joseph Olsen of Torrington started as a welder at B/E 35 years ago. When he left in February, he got an offer from a company in Groton and one in Stafford Springs.
"I would have been making less and traveling some distance," he said. "I'm 60, diabetic, and I have a bad back and hips. I used to enjoy working, but now I think I want to do some traveling."
Mr. Olsen said he was pursuing disability and retirement rather than a new job with a big commute.
Nancy Thompson of New Milford who worked in the stock room for 12 years, counting parts and keeping track of inventory, decided to go into something different.
"I didn't need retraining; I hit it just right and found a job at New Milford Hospital in medical records," she said, after spending two months out of work. "B/E was a stressful place to work at times." 
Brenda Malerba of Torrington did data entry at B/E for three years and is still looking for something in her field. "I may go back to school to become a paralegal, and unemployment helps, but they also give you a lot of run-around," she said. 
In the meantime, Ms. Malerba said she would keep looking for another job. "We are all trying to get out of the atmosphere we were in, out of the factory," she said. 
Loretta Sali, 40, who worked in the stock room, has previous experience in secretarial work so she is going to pursue a degree in medical office technology at Naugatuck Valley Community Technical College.
"I was hoping to stay at B/E for the rest of my career," she said, "but this closing came so suddenly after Sept. 11. The older you get the harder it is to get work in a factory, and I thought the medical field would be a good thing because they are always hiring."
The Trade Adjustment Act, she added, will pay for everything except her cap and gown.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When B/E Aerospace in Bantam shut down, 350 people were laid off. The town is still feeling the effects.; Michael Carr, center, studying at the Galen Institute, where he enrolled for classes just before he was laid off by B/E Aerospace in February.; Mr. Carr is studying massage therapy and plans to start a new business. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE INTERIORS MFG (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; LABOR 

COMPANY: B/E AEROSPACE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: B E AEROSPACE INC 

TICKER: BEAV (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); SIC2396 AUTOMOTIVE TRIMMINGS, APPAREL FINDINGS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: CHAMBERLAIN, FRANCES 

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%) BANTAM (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



672 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Long Island City; 
Work Begins on Long-Awaited Queens Development

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
BRAUSE REALTY has begun work on a 280,000-square-foot addition to its existing 404,000-square-foot building facing the Queensboro Bridge in Long Island City that together will be occupied by up to 2,000 workers for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company who are leaving Manhattan. 
 The Museum of Modern Art has moved into the neighborhood for the next few years while its Manhattan home is renovated and expanded and will mount efforts to draw its regular clientele across the East River. 
 Last year, the city rezoned a 37-block area for more intense development than the low-rise industrial buildings that predominate in the area and added incentives that could be worth $10 to $15 a square foot a year for tenants who bring employees to the area.
But Long Island City, the long predicted fourth central business district in the city -- after midtown and downtown Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn -- is largely on hold, its momentum stopped cold by the events of Sept. 11.
"Everything looked pretty good prior to Sept. 11," said Sanford H. Zuckerbrot, president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot, a brokerage active in the area. "We were anticipating demand for space out here, but it did not happen." 
Although most companies displaced from downtown found space elsewhere in Manhattan, some did go to New Jersey and Brooklyn, but not Long Island City.
And now, a different package of incentives intended to revitalize downtown Manhattan is having the probably unintended effect of making locations in far western Queens seem less inviting economically, Mr. Zuckerbrot said. "Many people think downtown Manhattan is more attractive than Long Island City," he said.
But real estate executives say that many of the property owners in the rezoned area have invested for the long term and are willing to wait until the situation in lower Manhattan becomes clearer and the overall demand for office space improves. Then, they say, the inherent advantages of Long Island City -- notably its proximity to midtown Manhattan, its abundant transportation links and its independent power and telecommunications connections -- will become apparent and tenants will start signing the big leases that make development possible.
David Brause, vice president of Brause Realty, said his family took the long view when it bought the old Brewster carriage plant at 27-01 Queens Plaza North in 1980. At that time, it was largely occupied by garment companies, and it was not until the late 1990's that the company began to empty the building out to convert it, initially for telecommunications and finally as offices for MetLife, which is reducing its back office staff at its headquarters at 1 Madison Avenue at 23rd Street.
Similarly, Brause Realty has owned the land adjacent to the building for 20 years in anticipation that a tenant like MetLife would want to expand once its employees got used to working in the area. Since there are few amenities nearby, the existing building was renovated to stand alone, with a large cafeteria and other services for employees.
As a result, the towering new 12-story addition will be practically all office space, Mr. Brause said. The first six floors will line up with the floors of the Brewster building while the upper six will stand alone. The new space should be ready for occupancy by October or November of 2003, he said.
Meanwhile, other projects in Long Island City, even those in an advanced state of planning, remain frozen. An ambitious plan to build 3 million square feet of office space on both sides of Jackson Avenue at Queens Plaza South was set back when Louis Dreyfus Property Group, which has been a developer in the suburbs, withdrew after Sept. 11.
A plan by Edward J. Minskoff Equities to build a 15-story, 655,000-square-foot office building at 30-30 Northern Boulevard just north of Queens Plaza awaits the signing of an anchor tenant. 
A proposal to build a 30-story, 1-million-square-foot office building on Jackson Avenue near the area's only existing skyscraper, the Citicorp building, similarly needs a tenant to commit to about half the space.
Nevertheless, "Long Island City remains New York's antidote to New Jersey," said Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate, whose company is part of the development group that formerly included Louis Dreyfus. He said many of the development sites are ready to proceed and, because the area has few residences, there is little local opposition to development.
"The city government has to focus on the area and create momentum," Mr. Gosin said. "We need incentives to attract companies to the boroughs."
Long Island City is in the midst of a long transition from its industrial past to whatever it will become in the future, said David H. Inerfeld, a senior director of Sholom & Zuckerbrot. "Forty years ago there was the largest concentration of manufacturing and distribution here of anyplace in the United States. But manufacturing went south and overseas, and the large warehouses went to the New Jersey Meadowlands." Some manufacturing has been re-established by new immigrants, he said, in fields like food, printing and sewing, but the area is not likely to be an industrial powerhouse again.
ALTHOUGH the rezoning contemplates office development, art may be an important component of the future. Although the Modern is expected to use the old Swingline stapler factory as it main exhibition space for only a few years, the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center is already well established in the area, Mr. Zuckerbrot said, and private galleries are opening.
Galleries typically follow artists, who favor the inexpensive space and light available in old industrial buildings, as they did in the SoHo and, later, Chelsea neighborhoods of Manhattan.
Although most real estate executives agree that the area would benefit from an influx of restaurants and stores, many are skeptical that much will change until a solid base of customers is in place, either in office buildings or residential buildings. Gene P. Spiegelman, a retail specialist at Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company, said that while some big-box stores, like Toys "R" Us and Home Depot, have located on Northern Boulevard in nearby Astoria, attracting retailers to the Queens Plaza area now is a tough sell.
"It is not even a chicken and egg problem," he said. "You will never attract retailers there until there is a critical mass of people. But one day it will happen because the transportation network is so strong."
Once corporate growth resumes, Long Island City may become attractive to corporations seeking to spread out their operations as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks, said Richard Karson, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, another brokerage and services company. "Corporations that once were looking at campuses are now interested in spreading their operations around," he said. "Long Island City is a great location for companies located in Midtown, because it is only 10 minutes away."
Mr. Karson said that with incentives companies could find space in Long Island City for about $15 a square foot, about a third of what they would pay for most Manhattan locations. "Corporations have been on the sidelines, which means there is pent-up demand, he said. "That means Long Island City is well positioned when the cycle improves."
Although Long Island City is seen as a cheap alternative to Manhattan, most brokers concede that there is a psychological barrier for most people to crossing a river to get to work, even if the time involved is short. But some are beginning to think that may become something of an advantage in the post-Sept. 11 environment. "Companies are looking at geographic diversity and studying where there employees live and how they commute," said Paul Glickman, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield. He said most workers who currently commute into Manhattan could be diverted to Long Island City without much difficulty.
But he does not think lower rents will be the deciding factor in inducing companies to set up operations in that area. "People are looking for things in addition to the price deal," he said. "They are looking for undeveloped sites that are on a different electrical grid, redundant telecommunication and on the other side of the river."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, David H. Inerfeld and Sanford H. Zuckerbrot; construction machinery at site of new MetLife offices. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ZONING (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); HIJACKING (71%); TERRORISM (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (85%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



673 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS; 
A Beautiful Tree That Shows a Sinister Side

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER 

 BODY:
DANNY BLICKENSTAFF stood in the middle of an acre of 100 royal paulownia trees planted eight years ago on his hilly 55-acre farm. The trees -- about 40 feet tall, as straight as telephone poles and eight inches in diameter -- marched down the slope like rows of corn. Mr. Blickenstaff, 56, a retired federal employee, went through the grove, which is near Hagerstown, Md., knocking any shoots off the brown speckled trunks, because these trees bring a high price for lumber. The durable, light wood can bring as much as $4 a board-foot, compared with 70 cents for black walnut, 50 cents for oak or 30 cents for pine. So it is becoming a popular hobby crop for farmer-gardeners like Mr. Blickenstaff with a bit of land. 
 "We've lost about a third of our oaks in Maryland to the gypsy moth," Mr. Blickenstaff said. "And paulownia, right now, doesn't seem to have any disease or insect problems. A locust or grasshopper might chew its leaves, but it grows so fast, that doesn't matter." 
 A native of China, paulownia was introduced to this country from Europe in the 1840's, and grown as an ornamental. It is a member of the figwort family and has nine species. But only P. tomentosa is hardy to winters as cold as minus 5 degrees. You have probably seen this tree, which has widely naturalized from Maine to Texas, blooming along the highways, on the sunny edge of the woods, in mid-spring. 
Commonly called the Chinese empress tree, princess tree or kiri tree, paulownia can also be grown as a yard tree, if pruned at about four feet to allow a few lateral branches to curve out from the main trunk. Such pruning will slow its growth, and result in a full canopy of large, heart-shaped leaves. Its pyramidal 10-inch trusses of lavender-blue flowers bloom in mid-May and smell like honeysuckle. 
The tree also makes an odd-ball tropical-like ornamental in the garden, if coppiced, or cut back hard in the winter, to force new leaves to sprout every spring. If grown this way, the short trunk will soon grow green branches with huge, three-feet-wide heart-shaped leaves. 
Mr. Blickenstaff, however, like a growing number of foresters, sees this tree as a lucrative economic plant. 
"These trees grew about 15 feet the first year and another 20 feet the second year," Mr. Blickenstaff, the president of the American Paulownia Association, said, patting one of the round trunks. "That's 35 feet in two years." At about 40 feet, the tree starts to grow more slowly, with an umbrella-like canopy. But it bears all the marks of an invasive plant: wind-dispersed seeds that thrive in disturbed areas. If given plenty of sun and good drainage, they take off like a rocket. 
About half of the 6,000 to 10,000 acres of paulownia estimated to be growing in the United States are wild, or in this case, naturalized. "Those are in Appalachia," Mr. Blickenstaff said. "The rest are plantation grown." 
These so-called wild trees bring the highest price on the market: from $6 to $10 a board foot, because the more slow-growing wood is even more durable, with interesting patterns on its pale light wood. It makes fine furniture and doors, window frames, roof beams and trim for houses, and can be easily carved into canes, canoe paddles and dulcimers and such. It's great for model airplanes. Jimmy Carter grows about 13 acres of paulownia on his farm near Plains, Ga. Forest schools in the South, including Virginia Tech, North Carolina State University and the University of Tennessee, are growing this tree in field trials, because of its economic potential. 
But the National Park Service views it as an "ecological threat," due to its ability to grow "rapidly in disturbed natural areas, including forests, stream banks and steep rocky slopes (see www.nps.gov /plants/alien). The Tennessee Exotic Pest Plant Council lists it as an invasive species. Its ability to quickly colonize disturbed habitats, like forests defoliated by gypsy moths, or scoured riparian zones, indicates that it could compete with rare, native plants already under siege from pollution, insects and disease. Yet growers like Mr. Blickenstaff insist that paulownia is a valuable tree that can be easily controlled, if grown in the right place. 
"I grow it on these grassy hills, where the seeds don't easily germinate," he said. "I think park services call it invasive, because you can't cut a tree out of a national or state park unless you declare it as a non-native invasive species." With so-called wild paulownia selling for up to $10 a board-foot, he may have a point. But this tree is a gangbuster.
The American Paulownia Association, which started in 1992, has 350 members in 23 states. 
I would like to think that this quirky plant is not invasive, because I would love to see a couple short trees with those big leaves popping up around my perennial beds. But from everything I read, it is, so I don't think I'll plant one. I was tempted to, after seeing pictures of a very interesting 48-year-old specimen tree in Dover, Del.
Mr. Blickenstaff showed off a stack of paulownia logs cut from that tree. Its massive trunk was 5 feet across at its base, and 45 feet tall. 
"I expect 800 board-feet out of these logs," Mr. Blickenstaff said. He paid $850 for the tree, and has high hopes that the cream-colored wood inside its base will be striated with thin brown lines that look like rippling water. Such patterns are created by burls, or rounded knots that develop on the outside of a tree trunk; they are treasured by wood carvers and furniture makers. 
I have a sculptor friend who peels off the bark of the young trees' branches and lets them dry. They look like translucent snake skin. 
So is it a gawky weed tree, a valuable resource, a striking material for environmental art, a menace? 
Like beauty, which lies in the eyes of the beholder, it depends on your area. But before you plant paulownia, call your local agricultural extension service and ask if it's on the invasive plant list. What acts like a thug in Tennessee may be well-behaved on Long Island, but it looks iffy to me.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sasha Meret) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); GARDENING (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (70%) TREES AND SHRUBS; PAULOWNIA (TREE) 

PERSON: RAVER, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (72%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



674 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2396 words

HEADLINE: Designing Buildings To Resist Earthquakes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
IT not only can happen here, it has happened here. New Yorkers who imagine themselves insulated from the threat of earthquakes received a gently rumbling reminder to the contrary two months ago.
 Early in the morning of Saturday, April 20, a moderately powerful earthquake 15 miles southwest of Plattsburgh, N.Y., sent tremors as far south as Brooklyn -- where it felt like a passing subway train -- and beyond. Though it left the city undamaged, it underscored that New York is not immune from seismic activity. Indeed, minor earthquakes in January 2001 and October 2001 were centered in Manhattan itself. 
 Earthquake consciousness is growing in New York. Under the banner of the New York City Area Consortium for Earthquake Loss Mitigation, engineers and scientists are studying building and soil conditions in an effort to pinpoint where the greatest risks may lie and ultimately to plan the seismic retrofitting of vitally needed structures like firehouses and hospitals. 
New York City's six-year-old seismic code already dictates how structural elements are connected in new buildings, facades are held in place, masonry is reinforced and utility lines are run and how far buildings are spaced from one another. It requires seismic retrofitting of buildings under substantial renovation and has added to construction costs (though it may one day prove to save reconstruction costs).
After Sept. 11, the question is whether any lessons from earthquake-resistant design apply to what seems like the far more pressing threat of terrorism.
"Absolutely," said Patricia J. Lancaster, an architect who is the new commissioner of the New York City Buildings Department. "The redundancy and resilience that come from withstanding lateral forces due to an earthquake would also seem to be able to withstand the lateral forces associated with a bomb."
Had the 1970's Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City been constructed using current seismic design details, up to 80 percent of the structural damage in the 1995 bombing could have been prevented, Dr. W. Gene Corley, an engineer, told a House subcommittee four years ago. He testified on behalf of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
Dr. Michel Bruneau, deputy director of the Multidisciplinary Center for Earthquake Engineering Research, based at the State University of New York at Buffalo, believes that some techniques developed over the past 20 years to make structures seismically safe may also be used to make them more resistant to terrorist attacks. A conference on this topic, sponsored by the center, drew about 100 engineers last week to the CUNY Graduate Center in mid-Manhattan.
Specifically, Dr. Bruneau referred to dampers that absorb and reduce damaging vibrations and to structures in which surviving columns take up the additional load if other columns are lost or damaged.
"We witnessed the effects of a very large-scale attack on Sept. 11," he said. "But what's more likely to happen in the future is the explosion of a car bomb parked near a building or a bridge. Such an explosion pushes structural elements to their load-bearing limits, to the point where they fail. This is very similar to what happens in an earthquake."
The goal is not that structures ride out a trauma unscathed but that they remain standing, even in a damaged state, and allow people inside to get out safely. Ductility and redundancy are the watchwords; buildings that bend but do not break, with enough structural elements that no one failure causes a catastrophic collapse.
"What we have to do is make sure there are no singular weak links in the chain," said Guy J. P. Nordenson of Guy Nordenson & Associates, a structural engineer and a leading advocate of the seismic code, Local Law 17 of 1995. He said the law may help improve buildings' resistance to attack by requiring that all masonry walls be reinforced, that facade elements be securely anchored and that connections between beams and columns be ductile.
That said, however, there are critical differences between earthquakes and explosions, beginning with the force itself, which is almost entirely lateral in one case and spherical in the other. The forces are exerted in different ways across buildings (more uniformly in an earthquake, more locally in the case of a blast) and over different periods of time (minutes in one case, seconds in the other).
There is another important difference.
Ask an engineer how safe a building is and the engineer is likely to ask under what circumstance. "When we speak about earthquakes, one can actually calculate a certain probability," said Franz-Josef Ulm, associate professor of engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "We have no mathematical tools to evaluate the probability of a terrorist event."
Rather than trying to anticipate every possible assault on structural integrity, some engineers favor a multihazard approach. "You don't try to pick only one threat and design for it," said Thomas Z. Scarangello, a managing principal of Thornton-Tomasetti Engineers. "If you design a building in a way that it can resist a variety of potential threats -- environmental, wind, earthquake and blast -- it will perform better under all these cases."
Or as Mr. Nordenson put it, "You do think about every eventuality you can, knowing that you will never think of the thing that will happen." While an earthquake cannot be predicted, however, computer modeling can be used to describe its likely effects. That is what Mr. Nordenson is working on with Michael W. Tantala, a doctoral candidate in civil engineering at Princeton University, and Prof. George Deodatis of the civil engineering and engineering mechanics department at Columbia University.
In the third year of their project, which has been coordinated by the multidisciplinary center, they have projected the effects of earthquakes on 36,935 buildings in Manhattan, neighborhood by neighborhood. They are now preparing a similar analysis of the other boroughs, a total of 750,000 buildings, and the metropolitan region.
Their basic tool is an earthquake loss estimation software program known as Hazus, developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Default information is modified to reflect local building types (unreinforced masonry structures are the most vulnerable) and soil conditions (softer soils tend to amplify ground motion).
The researchers studied a variety of possibilities, some involving hypothetical earthquakes in a range of magnitudes at a specific location, others based on the probability of a certain ground motion occurring within a specified period of time.
The findings -- shown graphically on Page 1 -- assume an earthquake of 6.0 on the moment magnitude scale, somewhat similar to the Richter scale but based on the amount of energy released rather than on instrumental recordings. This hypothetical quake is centered near Rockaway Beach, Queens, the location of the strongest earthquake recorded within the modern boundardies of New York City, on Aug. 10, 1884.
In such an event, more than 1,000 buildings, almost 3 percent of the total, would be extensively or completely destroyed in Manhattan, the researchers found, most in the area south of 14th Street. Not coincidentally, the highest concentration of unreinforced masonry buildings is in Greenwich Village, Chinatown, Little Italy, SoHo and NoHo.
More than 22,000 buildings would escape undamaged, according to this projection.
Depending on the time of day, the researchers estimated that between 130 and 250 people would be killed or injured seriously enough to require hospitalization.
The researchers looked closely at hospitals, firehouses, police stations and schools. They concluded that on the first day of the 6.0-magnitude earthquake, the firefighting service would be taxed to more than five times its capacity, facing more than 100 blazes, with damaged firehouses and interruptions in power and water. The functioning ability of all the vital services would increase markedly as the days passed.
Such analysis is not meant as a scare tactic but might help the Fire Department identify which of its unreinforced firehouses it ought to retrofit first. "That's why this is a planning tool," Mr. Nordenson said.
Though useful illustratively, the 6.0-magnitude earthquake is one of the unlikeliest events studied by the researchers, with a probability that can be expressed as once in 19,500 years. That is not a short time, Mr. Tantala allowed, though he added, "That time could be up tomorrow."
New York has never experienced an earthquake on this scale. The Upper East Side quake on Jan. 17 last year (magnitude 2.4) and the Upper West Side quake on Oct. 27 (magnitude 2.6) were too small to do any damage, said Klaus H. Jacob, senior research scientist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University. Based on contemporary damage accounts, the 1884 earthquake was retroactively assigned an estimated magnitude of 4.9.
"Although New York City is a region with low seismic hazard (infrequent damaging earthquakes)," the study says, "it actually has high seismic risk, which results from concentrations of buildings and infrastructure built according to no seismic codes."
That is beginning to change as new structures are built under the seismic code, which took effect in 1996. Commissioner Lancaster declined to estimate how many buildings are now in compliance.
CONTRARY to one's intuitive sense that an earthquake code would dictate skyscraper design, it is actually far more influential in the design of lower-rise buildings. That is because tall towers are already designed to withstand the force of extremely strong winds and therefore exceed the engineering requirements for a less active seismic zone like New York.
Significantly, the law applies to alterations that enlarge the area of an existing building and require new or reinforced foundations. For an enlargement that does not require foundation work, the law applies if the addition costs more than 60 percent of the value of the existing building.
"The biggest impact of the seismic code is in retrofitting older, heavier masonry buildings," said Edward M. DePaola of Severud Associates, who is the president of the Structural Engineers Association of New York.
It has even affected the reconstruction of a 19th-century stone cottage from County Mayo, Ireland, as part of the Irish Hunger Memorial at Battery Park City, which is to be dedicated next month. Rather than its original rubble-stone core, the cottage had to be rebuilt with concrete behind its fieldstone facade, which is unchanged.
At the Jamaica Health Center, Jamaica Avenue and Parsons Boulevard, compliance was triggered by the planned addition of a third-floor tuberculosis clinic atop a 52-year-old, two-story building. That will require V-shaped bracing along three walls of the existing structure. "On both sides of this two- , soon to be three-story building, you have structures that are not designed for earthquake resistance," said an architect formerly associated with the project, who asked that his name not be used. He questioned the need for the extra seismic reinforcement. "In concept, it seemed to be an illogical procedure to follow," he said.
But Ms. Lancaster said that, building by building, "you have to at least be on the road to full compliance." And in some cases, she said, the benefit of seismic retrofits is that smaller buildings would not pound into their taller neighbors during an earthquake.
In a seismic collision, a taller building is at greater risk from a shorter one, said Carlos M. Dobryn, president of DeSimone Consulting Engineers.
To prevent pounding, the seismic code calls for a separation between buildings of one inch for every 50 feet of tower height. That affected the engineering of an addition to the 29-story Bush Building, 130 West 42nd Street, by DeSimone.
The addition will be six inches distant. Spanning that gap on each floor will be what amounts to a very short pedestrian bridge: a covered plate attached to the new tower and resting on a cushion in the older building. "When the buildings move, that plate is free to slide," Mr. Dobryn said.
Costas Kondylis, one of the more prolific architects in New York City, said the requirements of the seismic code had added to construction costs and subtly affected apartment layouts, by slightly increasing the thickness of walls and columns. But he added, "By now, we're all used to it."
It took seven years for the code to be enacted from the time in 1988 that Buildings Commissioner Charles M. Smith Jr. appointed a committee at the urging of engineers and scientists who had concluded that New York was at higher risk for earthquakes than had previously been estimated.
Three months ago, the Buildings Department convened its World Trade Center building code task force. Within a year, it is expected to recommend measures "to increase public safety in and around buildings during extreme events and conditions."
One change championed by Mr. Nordenson is peer review of large-scale structural engineering plans, rather than the existing self-certification system in which engineers vouch for their own work. Commissioner Lancaster said that the idea seemed good on the face of it and was under consideration but that there were questions as to how the agency could fairly and economically distribute applications for review.
The current task force confronts a different challenge than that faced by drafters of the seismic code, among them Richard L. Tomasetti, president of the Thornton-Tomasetti Group. "We learned from looking at every seismic event what the threats were," he said. "We don't really have a track record here. We don't know. What is the threat we're designing for?"
Mr. Tomasetti suggested there might be resistance to the codification of detailed blast-resistance measures, which could then be easily consulted by terrorists. "We have numerous private clients who are hardening their buildings that don't want that known," he said. "Not to be facetious but: 'Hey, read the book. You've got to knock out three columns. Two won't do it any more.' "
Ultimately, some engineers wonder just how much of an engineering solution there can be to terrorism. "Let's not be trying to design buildings for aircraft impact and huge explosions," Mr. DePaola said. "Let's keep the threat away from the building."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Michel Bruneau told a recent conference that there was a "natural synergy" between earthquake-and terror-resistant engineering.; But Dr. Richard L. Tomasetti told the conference that in the case of terrorism: "We don't know. What is the threat we're designing for?" (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart "Effects of a Hypothetical Major Earthquake" describes the different number of building types, zone location and the number of buildings by level of damage. Map of Manhattan highlights the locations of hospitals and fire stations. (Source: "Earthquake Loss Estimation Study for the New York City Area," New York City Area Consortium for Earthquake Loss Mitigation)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); TERRORISM (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (86%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%) EARTHQUAKES; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



675 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: ENVIRONMENT; 
Unfortunately, These Maples Are Spreading

BYLINE:  By JEREMY PEARCE 

DATELINE: MADISON 

 BODY:
UNWATCHED and not matching any known profile, the intruder slipped across borders, and then traveled stealthily and widely until it disrupted the lives of the natives around it.
 The Norway maple, a bossy immigrant with a Scandinavian accent, has flourished so extensively that it now threatens New Jersey's prized sugar maples and the forest-floor plants that depend on them. While still widely used as a suburban shade tree, the Norway maple is making the most-wanted lists of scientists who would like to see it rooted out. 
 "It makes me sad," said Dr. Sara Webb, a Drew University ecologist who studies the Norway maple. "If people had a clear idea they were about to wipe out native flora, they wouldn't plant it in the first place. When our canopy of beeches and oaks finally falls down, will they be replaced by other beeches and oaks? We are no longer sure." 
Muddling matters, the Norway maple closely resembles the sugar maple -- so closely that botanists are sometimes fooled -- but seems to outcompete it in nearly every way. The foreign species puts out leaves earlier, holds them longer and also carpets lawns and sidewalks with legions of seeds. It can be most easily identified by its leaves' shiny undersurface and the oozing of a milky sap when its stems are broken.
The hunt has begun to remove the intruder trees from Central Park in New York City, Fairmount Park in Philadelphia and countless smaller preserves, even as the trees thrive in New Jersey's yards.
At the Reeves-Reed Arboretum in Summit, however, an intense campaign has been under way for five years to clear a relatively small area of the Norway maples. Carolyn Lydon, a staff horticulturist, said the best results demanded ripping out smaller trees and girdling large ones -- cutting through bark to halt a tree's growth and hasten its end.
"It's to the point that it's a constant battle," Ms. Lydon said. "Norway maples have probably been our biggest problem."
Some naturalists suggest that the invasion has been so pervasive because state environmental and agricultural officials have disagreed about solutions. New Jersey does not yet have an official list of plant, insect and animal invaders, nor the regulations to ban sales of Norway maples or any other tree species. Other states -- Wisconsin, Minnesota and Illinois among them -- have assembled such lists as a first step toward warning the public about potential damages to local ecosystems.
"All that's green is not gold," said William Young, president of the Native Plant Society of New Jersey, which has compiled its own list of 40 invasive species. "Our state doesn't even have a formal strategy. This is an issue that we are going to have to face because, between deer and exotic species, we are not regenerating our native forest."
As state regulations stand, agriculture officials can declare quarantines to ban species during emergencies, although the measures usually concern food crops like potatoes that might affect public health, and not trees, vines or garden ornamentals. No regulations exist to govern species that may be causing lasting damage to forests and meadows. 
For the past two years, the state Department of Agriculture has been overseeing a panel, including farmers, nursery owners and state and federal officials, to anticipate natural threats in everything from Africanized bees to zebra mussels and to create a management plan intended to repel invaders.
"At this point, we haven't established a list, as many other states have done," said Robert J. Balaam, director of the agriculture department's division of plant industry and a member of the task force. "We've been a little slower, but we are also more focused. Other states have been quick to develop lists without determining the criteria of invasive species."
The main impediment to controlling the Norway maple is that nurseries sell a lot of them as shade trees.
"In some cases the nursery industry says, 'This is going to kill us, in terms of economics,' " Mr. Balaam said.
Still, some nursery owners say they are voluntarily avoiding the Norway maple and pointing clients toward oaks, beeches, sugar maples and other native trees. The New Jersey Nursery and Landscape Association has informed its members about invasive species and counseled against using some -- but not all -- of them. "An invasive plant in the right setting is not invasive," said Carl R. Nordstrom, the association's executive director.
Tom Taylor, garden designer with Caliper Farms Nursery in Belle Mead, said the case of the Norway maple had led to a more thorough consideration of plants used in the industry. "Every new plant that comes around, you have to look at," he said. "No one wants to put something in the ground that is going to become a problem later on."
Scientists say the chief danger from the Norway maple (Acer platanoides) is the suffocating effect it has on the plants below. The tree's leafy canopy is so luxuriant that it tends to block light from the forest floor. On a back lot of Drew University's campus in Madison, a stand of mature Norway maples towers over a single species prevailing underneath, a rich crop of Norway seedlings that don't seem to mind the lack of light.
"The clearest impact we see in the forest is a suppression of diversity," said Dr. Webb, who uses the lot as an outdoor laboratory. "We see the population of native plants just gets smaller and more fragmented."
Attacking the trees with herbicides could affect the aquifer beneath the campus, so the solution has been to cut the trees down and later prune new growth springing from the stumps. 
In Philadelphia, where it is believed that Norway maples were first imported to the New World in the 1700's, scientists are also trying to cope. The trees are hardy and seem to have adapted effortlessly from their original Eurasian range, which runs from Norway to northern Iran. An experiment in progress in Fairmount Park suggests that once maples are removed, native plants do indeed come back. But because the park is bordered by residences landscaped with Norway maples, progress might be short-lived.
"Removal is going to hinge on public education," said Dr. Margot Bram, an ecologist with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. "When people dump their lawn clippings on the park's edges, they're actually introducing maple seeds right back in."
A result, said Dr. Bram, can be an influx of other exotic and invasive species that exploit the Norway maple's new niche: Japanese honeysuckle, garlic mustard, Oriental bittersweet and kudzu, which advance to further challenge native species.
Sugar farmers in pursuit of maple syrup have found the Norway maples wanting. In fact, the lone situation in which scientists say the tree might be tolerable would be on city streets, surrounded by concrete and an environment where their fertile seeds are rendered harmless on sidewalks. As for the suburbs, the intruders are shouldering the natives aside.
"Norway maples are still in the books," said Christine Padula, nursery manager at Mendham Garden Center. "We can order them. They're always available. But I wouldn't exactly recommend them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The underside of the Norway maple leaf, top, is glossier than the sugar maple's.; Sara Webb, a Drew University ecologist, uses the campus as a laboratory to study Norway maples' effects on their surroundings. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); WILDLIFE (76%); HORTICULTURE (76%); PLANT CONSERVATION (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); BOTANY (76%); BIOLOGY (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); MAMMALS (75%); ANIMALS (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%) TREES AND SHRUBS; MAPLE TREES 

PERSON: PEARCE, JEREMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



676 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
New York: Comeback (After a Lag) Kid

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
DO you remember the last recession? Lots of New Yorkers don't. Some -- ah, youth! -- were still in school back in the early 1990's. And many of those old enough to have been employed back then have been happy to forget those dark economic days, along with grunge fashion, "Dances With Wolves" and Marilyn Quayle's hairdo.
 Which is why New York still needs Samuel M. Ehrenhalt. An economist who turns 77 today, Mr. Ehrenhalt studied New York City through half a century of booms and busts, until he retired as regional commissioner for the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics in 1995. So he has an unusual perspective on the city's current economic troubles: "The long view is the only view I have," he said last week. 
 What he has learned over the last 50 years suggests that, in the short term, the city's economy is likely to continue to suffer. But in the longer run, he said, the city will almost certainly bounce back. "We have a record of going through tough times and coming back stronger then ever," he said.
For most of the last half century, New York City has had what he calls a "roller coaster economy." In the 1950's, it fared well, but not as well in the suburbs. In the 60's, the economy started out very strong, but then went into a tailspin.
By the mid-70's, the city had lost 600,000 jobs -- a sixth of its employment base -- across almost every industry. "About when everyone had given up," he said, the economy turned up, making the 1980's "a decade of unexpected, remarkable, vigorous growth."
But in 1989, the city's economy went into free fall, more than a full year before the national recession began. And even after most of the country began to rebound in 1991, New York City didn't. "It was 1993 before we saw the light at the end of the tunnel," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. 
"That lag in recovery is typical of New York," he warned. "We've seen it in almost every recession I've ever worked on." Places where the total population is surging seem to be the first to rebound, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
The lag seems to be happening this time, too. For example, the national unemployment rate fell in May, to 5.8 percent from 6 percent, after adjustments for seasonal factors. But New York City's jobless rate continued to climb, rising to 8 percent from 7.7 percent. That's the highest it has been since May of 1998, when it was on its way down.
The employment picture is slightly better. As it does every spring, the city added jobs, especially at bars and restaurants, according to data from the New York State Department of Labor. Schools also hired people, at least temporarily, and construction jobs picked up. 
Still, the seasonal gains paled in comparison to those of boom years of the late 1990's and 2000. And the city has a huge loss to recover from -- over the past year, 104,000 private-sector jobs vanished. That works out to 3.3 percent of all the nongovernment jobs in the city, a decline more than twice as steep as the national loss of 1.6 percent.
Those statistics are rather grim for the roughly 267,000 people looking for work in the city (that's according to the state labor department). But New York City has a history of transforming its economy, Mr. Ehrenhalt said; after all, in 1961 its most important industries were wholesale trade, garment manufacturing and printing, none of which would make the Top 3 today.
And it has often confounded naysayers. He recalled a headline from the mid-60's, which read, basically, "Greatest City in the World and Everything Is Wrong With It." In 1980, a blue-chip group of economists predicted that in the coming decade, the city would experience absolutely no job growth. In the early 1990's, "people were saying we'd never see jobs on Wall Street like those of the 1980's," he said.
None of this turned out to be accurate. "The moral of that story is, don't sell New York short," he said.
Since he retired, Mr. Ehrenhalt has stopped poring over the reams of statistics he used to revel in. But he has his own ways of gauging the economy.
Earlier this month, he walked down Broadway among crowds of tourists who have returned to the city and thought, "That's New York doing its thing," he said. "As soon as there is a flicker of hope, New York comes back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel M. Ehrenhalt is a retired economist who studied New York City for 50 years. "We have a record of going through tough times and coming back stronger then ever," he said. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); TRENDS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); STATISTICS (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; EHRENHALT, SAMUEL M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



677 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS; 
A Beautiful Tree That Shows a Sinister Side

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
DANNY BLICKENSTAFF stood in the middle of an acre of 100 royal paulownia trees planted eight years ago on his hilly 55-acre farm. The trees -- about 40 feet tall, as straight as telephone poles and eight inches in diameter -- marched down the slope like rows of corn.
 Mr. Blickenstaff, 56, a retired federal employee, went through the grove, which is near Hagerstown, Md., knocking any shoots off the brown speckled trunks, because these trees bring a high price for lumber. The durable, light wood can bring as much as $4 a board-foot, compared with 70 cents for black walnut, 50 cents for oak or 30 cents for pine. So it is becoming a popular hobby crop for farmer-gardeners like Mr. Blickenstaff with a bit of land. 
 "We've lost about a third of our oaks in Maryland to the gypsy moth," Mr. Blickenstaff said. "And paulownia, right now, doesn't seem to have any disease or insect problems. A locust or grasshopper might chew its leaves, but it grows so fast, that doesn't matter."
A native of China, paulownia was introduced to this country from Europe in the 1840's, and grown as an ornamental. It is a member of the figwort family and has nine species. But only P. tomentosa is hardy to winters as cold as minus 5 degrees. You have probably seen this tree, which has widely naturalized from Maine to Texas, blooming along the highways, on the sunny edge of the woods, in mid-spring. 
Commonly called the Chinese empress tree, princess tree or kiri tree, paulownia can also be grown as a yard tree, if pruned at about four feet to allow a few lateral branches to curve out from the main trunk. Such pruning will slow its growth, and result in a full canopy of large, heart-shaped leaves. Its pyramidal 10-inch trusses of lavender-blue flowers bloom in mid-May and smell like honeysuckle. 
The tree also makes an odd-ball tropical-like ornamental in the garden, if coppiced, or cut back hard in the winter, to force new leaves to sprout every spring. If grown this way, the short trunk will soon grow green branches with huge, three-feet-wide heart-shaped leaves. 
Mr. Blickenstaff, however, like a growing number of foresters, sees this tree as a lucrative economic plant. 
"These trees grew about 15 feet the first year and another 20 feet the second year," Mr. Blickenstaff, the president of the American Paulownia Association, said, patting one of the round trunks. "That's 35 feet in two years."
At about 40 feet, the tree starts to grow more slowly, with an umbrella-like canopy. But it bears all the marks of an invasive plant: wind-dispersed seeds that thrive in disturbed areas. If given plenty of sun and good drainage, they take off like a rocket. 
About half of the 6,000 to 10,000 acres of paulownia estimated to be growing in the United States are wild, or in this case, naturalized. "Those are in Appalachia," Mr. Blickenstaff said. "The rest are plantation grown." 
These so-called wild trees bring the highest price on the market: from $6 to $10 a board foot, because the more slow-growing wood is even more durable, with interesting patterns on its pale light wood. It makes fine furniture and doors, window frames, roof beams and trim for houses, and can be easily carved into canes, canoe paddles and dulcimers and such. It's great for model airplanes. Jimmy Carter grows about 13 acres of paulownia on his farm near Plains, Ga. Forest schools in the South, including Virginia Tech, North Carolina State University and the University of Tennessee, are growing this tree in field trials, because of its economic potential.
 BUT the National Park Service views it as an "ecological threat," due to its ability to grow "rapidly in disturbed natural areas, including forests, stream banks and steep rocky slopes (see www.nps.gov/plants /alien). The Tennessee Exotic Pest Plant Council lists it as an invasive species. 
Its ability to quickly colonize disturbed habitats, like forests defoliated by gypsy moths, or scoured riparian zones, indicates that it could compete with rare, native plants already under siege from pollution, insects and disease. Yet growers like Mr. Blickenstaff insist that paulownia is a valuable tree that can be easily controlled, if grown in the right place. 
"I grow it on these grassy hills, where the seeds don't easily germinate," he said. "I think park services call it invasive, because you can't cut a tree out of a national or state park unless you declare it as a non-native invasive species." With so-called wild paulownia selling for up to $10 a board-foot, he may have a point. But this tree is a gangbuster.
The American Paulownia Association, which started in 1992, has 350 members in 23 states. 
I would like to think that this quirky plant is not invasive, because I would love to see a couple short trees with those big leaves popping up around my perennial beds. But from everything I read, it is, so I don't think I'll plant one. I was tempted to, after seeing pictures of a very interesting 48-year-old specimen tree in Dover, Del.
Mr. Blickenstaff showed off a stack of paulownia logs cut from that tree. Its massive trunk was 5 feet across at its base, and 45 feet tall. 
"I expect 800 board-feet out of these logs," Mr. Blickenstaff said. He paid $850 for the tree, and has high hopes that the cream-colored wood inside its base will be striated with thin brown lines that look like rippling water. Such patterns are created by burls, or rounded knots that develop on the outside of a tree trunk; they are treasured by wood carvers and furniture makers. 
I have a sculptor friend who peels off the bark of the young trees' branches and lets them dry. They look like translucent snakeskin. 
So is it a gawky weed tree, a valuable resource, a striking material for environmental art, a menace? 
Like beauty, which lies in the eyes of the beholder, it depends on your area. But before you plant paulownia, call your local agricultural extension service and ask if it's on the invasive plant list. What acts like a thug in Tennessee may be well-behaved on Long Island, but it looks iffy to me.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sasha Meret) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); GARDENING (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (88%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



678 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2551 words

HEADLINE: SUMMER OF '77 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN MAHLER; Jonathan Mahler is working on a book about New York City and baseball in the late 1970's, to be published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux/Picador.

 BODY:
I GREW up hearing stories about the New York of my father's childhood, the New York of the 1940's and 50's. The lower-middle-class Jewish neighborhood in the Bronx that was thick with semidetached houses; the broom handles swiped from his mother's closet, the pink Spaldeens sailing over manhole covers. That was my mythology.
 The images were especially resonant because we lived far away from this world, in Palm Springs, Calif., where the streets are named after Bob Hope and Frank Sinatra and the landscape alternates between spiky shrubs and golf courses. Those supernaturally green fairways, kept lush by constantly whirring sprinklers, were my reality; the bustling streets of New York were my fantasyland. That is, until the summer of 1977, when we came to the city for the first time. 
 I was only 8, but it didn't take long to figure out that this wasn't the place I had imagined. When we climbed into a taxi, my parents would immediately roll up the windows and lock the doors. When we took the No. 4 train to Yankee Stadium, my father kept a tight grip on my arm as I tried to decipher the anarchic swirls of graffiti that covered nearly every inch of our airless car. 
Twenty-five years have passed since the summer of '77. It was a summer when a serial killer stalked young, brown-haired women with a .44-caliber pistol, a summer when a power failure plunged the city into darkness and looting. It was the summer when the white manager of the Yankees, the brawling, blue-collar Billy Martin, and the team's strutting, self-conscious black superstar, Reggie Jackson, nearly came to blows. It was the summer when the Mets traded Tom Seaver, their ace, and it was the summer of Studio 54 ("the summer of our discotheques," as Anthony Haden-Guest said).
Few events from this mean season inspire nostalgia, but it is now possible to appreciate that summer for what it was: the pits, yes, but also a transformative moment in which New York broke with the grand visions of its past.
The city that once dared to fly in the face of capitalism with its public hospitals, powerful municipal unions and free university system had crashed and burned. Call it realism, call it a dream deflated, but the result was the same. New York would no longer aspire to be all things to all of its people.
"Nineteen seventy-seven was the break-point year," says Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political consultant who was then a city police officer. "The romantic vision of what the city once was died. Social democracy went into the toilet. People were less interested in free college than they were in safe streets."

The Gathering Storm
No one saw the clouds gathering. The previous summer, the summer of our nation's bicentennial, had been a triumphant one. On the eve of July 4, 1976, Leonard Bernstein directed the New York Philharmonic through a program of patriotic songs in Central Park. The next morning, more than 200 tall ships from around the world chugged up the Hudson from the Statue of Liberty. Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers dotted the shoreline, roaring on cue when the 21-gun salutes began at noon.
About a week later, the city was host to the Democratic National Convention. An ebullient Mayor Abraham D. Beame opened it with an old-fashioned partisan attack on the G.O.P.: "It has been New York's misfortune, and the misfortune of this entire nation, that the very men who should have been healing and uniting this land have chosen instead to divide it."
For two years, New York had been pleading with Washington for help in resolving its financial woes, and President Ford had been anything but sympathetic. The rest of the nation agreed. Political cartoonists portrayed New York as a zoo where the apes were zookeepers, as a naughty puppy being swatted by a rolled-up newspaper, as an apple-shaped bowling ball on a collision course with a row of pins.
"Americans do not much like, admire, respect, trust, or believe in this city," wrote the syndicated columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak.
But the Democratic candidate, Jimmy Carter, campaigning that summer and fall, apparently did. He had given Mayor Beame his word: he'd never tell New York to "drop dead." The mayor was now hopeful and said, "I think we've turned the corner and seen the light at the end of tunnel."
As it turned out, to continue the cliche, that light was on an approaching train. 
The Emergency Financial Control Board, which had been created to baby-sit the city until it could be trusted to manage its own finances, spent nearly two hours in June 1977 poking holes in Mr. Beame's new budget. And once he was elected, Jimmy Carter changed his tune. Federal loans would be forthcoming -- just as soon as City Hall, the banks and the unions made peace. Many interpreted the message to mean that New York would be bailed out when it no longer needed to be bailed out. New York magazine updated the famous "Ford to City: Drop Dead" headline in The Daily News to "Carter to City: Heal Thyself."
Relations were further strained when, within a few weeks of his inauguration, Mr. Carter found himself in the middle of an international crisis, courtesy of a small community in Queens.
France and England were petitioning to land a new bent-nosed supersonic jet called the Concorde at Kennedy Airport, and the airport's neighbors, the people of Howard Beach, were in a lather. The battle cry echoed through the neat rows of middle-class homes: "One if by land, two if by sea, three if by air!" They sealed off traffic to the airport with their parked cars, and threatened to lie down on runways.
For their part, the French warned President Carter, who favored the flights, that France might withdraw from NATO if the Concorde were banned from Kennedy. Their government might even fall, they said.
What the French did not know was that the Howard Beach protests were part of a broader middle-class rebellion. Eight years of Mayor John V. Lindsay had taken their toll. His attempts to empower the underclass had served to disfranchise the working class. Fast on his heels came Mayor Beame and a city financial crisis that decimated job rolls and services. The narrow rivers that separated the other boroughs from Manhattan had never felt so vast.
Ultimately, the Concorde won. But even in midbattle the residents of Queens had something more pressing on their minds.

Madman With a Gun
Jimmy Breslin is stretched out on the couch in his Upper West Side home. It is late afternoon some weeks ago, and he has been working on a column since 3:30 a.m. He is drowsy, but when he hears the name David Berkowitz he perks up. "Berkowitz!" he explodes, using an expletive.
In 1977, Mr. Breslin was writing for The Daily News. On March 9, he went to Forest Hills, where an Armenian exchange student, Virginia Voskerichian, had been killed the night before. The body was found within 300 yards of the site of another murder a few months earlier. The slugs, from a .44-caliber pistol, were a perfect match. Several other unsolved murders dating to the previous summer, all involving young women with shoulder-length brown hair, were soon linked to the case as well.
In April, the killer struck again, this time in the Bronx. He left a note between the two bloody bodies: "I am the Son of Sam. I love to hunt. Prowling the streets looking for fair game -- tasty meat. The women of Queens are the prettyest."
The next letter, in June, was to Mr. Breslin himself. "Hello from the gutters of N.Y.C.," the killer wrote, "which are filled with dog manure, vomit, stale wine, urine and blood. Don't think that because you haven't heard from me in a while that I went to sleep."
The News teased at the letter's contents all week, running headlines like ".44 Killer: I Am Not Asleep." Rupert Murdoch had just bought The New York Post, and was moving the once-liberal paper to the right, a threat to The Daily News's monopoly on the city's working class. Son of Sam was now The News's story, and the paper intended to wring it dry. "We even ran the postmark and the back of the envelope," Mr. Breslin said. 
But Son of Sam soon struck again in Queens, and then in Brooklyn. He was not captured until Aug. 10.
Mario M. Cuomo, the Queens lawyer who unsuccessfully ran for mayor that year against a low-profile congressman, Edward I. Koch, recently recalled campaigning that summer. "It was terrible," he said. "The city was scared to death, angry and frightened. A woman in Brighton Beach spat on me." She found him infuriatingly soft on crime.
Even the Yankees, once a psychic oasis for New Yorkers, were being torn apart. The team's two biggest personalities, Reggie Jackson and Billy Martin, could not get along, and it was hard not to see race, class and a tug-of-war between the past and the future at the root of their dispute.
Jackson was a new breed of ballplayer. Part P. Diddy, part Muhammad Ali, he rented a three-bedroom on Fifth Avenue, drove a Rolls-Royce to the ballpark, counted his $100 bills in public, and preferred blondes. He was a regular at a new nightspot, Studio 54. He'd often show up in Gloria Vanderbilt jeans and a polo shirt with his pal Ralph Destino, the chairman of Cartier, after dining at Jim McMullen's, a favorite haunt for Eileen Ford models.
Jackson loved his time in New York. "I was the Derek Jeter of the 70's," he remembered last year, leaning against a batting cage at the Yankee camp in Florida. The big exception was the summer of '77: "I almost cracked up," he said. 
Jackson's nemesis, Billy Martin, represented everything the swaggering slugger wasn't. He was hard-nosed, scrappy, unglamorous, a perfect emblem for the fed-up, underappreciated working class.
For the first few months of the '77 season, the two collided over Jackson's spot in the lineup, among other things. Then came a nationally televised game on June 18, Yankees-Red Sox, at Fenway Park. In the sixth inning, Martin pulled Jackson off the field; a punishment, ostensibly for not hustling after a pop fly. The next image would be seared on the city's consciousness: the scrawny white manager and the beefy black slugger, his glasses removed and set aside, standing chest-to-chest in the dugout. 
Yogi Berra came between them before any punches could fly, but the cold war was now hot. "I'm just a black man to them who doesn't know how to be subservient," Jackson said later. Resented by his manager, rejected by New York, the superstar pleaded with George Steinbrenner to trade him.
A larger-than-life local ballplayer was traded that month, but it wasn't Jackson. It was Tom Seaver, the most popular athlete in New York, who went to the Reds. When Seaver joined the Mets in 1967, the team was a comedy troupe. In two years, he transformed them into the Amazins, the World Champion Mets.
Seaver had asked to be traded after the Mets refused his request for a three-year contract at $325,000 a year. But a major factor in his desire to leave was Daily News sports columnist Dick Young, who suggested that the pitcher's demands were related to his wife's envy of the wives of other, better-paid players. The Post ran front-page pictures of a tearful Tom and his wife, Nancy, under the banner headline, "Protest Swells on Seaver Deal." 
The sense of betrayal rippled through the city. All that was missing was the fair-haired kid begging the hometown hero to say it ain't so. 
"Can New York Survive?" Norman Mailer asked. The answer appeared to be no, judging by the end-of-the-Roman-Empire feel in the pulsating discos that seemed to be opening nightly. If Bianca Jagger riding into Studio 54 on a white horse wasn't a sign of the coming apocalypse, what was?
But the low point was still to come. On Wednesday evening, July 13, lightning struck several power lines north of the city. New York's circuit breakers started tripping like dominoes. By 9:35 p.m., the city was engulfed in darkness.
New York had been here before, in 1965. That time, the streets had grown quiet and mellow. This time, within 10 minutes of the onset of the blackout, throngs of looters were hacking off padlocks, pulling down storefront gates, crashing through windows and dragging off TV's, couches, washing machines, bicycles, even diapers. 
Once a store had been emptied, it was often set ablaze; between Wednesday night and Friday morning, the Fire Department fought 1,037 fires. Every single poor neighborhood, from Bedford-Stuyvesant to the South Bronx, was hit, but so was the more affluent West Side of Manhattan, from the 40's all the way to 110th Street.
The city's jails soon overflowed. Some of the 3,500 arrested had to sleep in places like court detention areas. Suspected looters were arraigned in large groups. Urban decay was on fast forward.
Midge Decter, the social critic, described the sensation of waking up the morning after the blackout as "having been given a sudden glimpse into the foundations of one's house and seen, with horror, that it was utterly infested and rotting away."
As the fires smoldered, the debate over causes raged. Some saw the looters as victims of social and economic forces. Most saw them as common criminals.
It didn't help that most looters were black and most shop owners white. Whatever words the debates were cloaked in, they were all, at bottom, about race. "The merchants never looked at 'em the same way again, and they weren't looking at 'em too good to begin with," Mr. Breslin said.
As the mercury zoomed in the week after the blackout, sometimes exceeding 100 degrees, New York appealed for disaster relief. President Carter said no.
The summer was now well along. It was too late for a redeemer, so New York would have to settle for an avenger instead: Mr. Koch. Like a mood ring, his temper had been changing along with the city's condition in the last 10 years. He lashed out at the unions, at the "poverticians and poverty pimps," and at Mayor Beame.
"What the hell is going on here?" Mr. Koch recently remembered thinking during the looting. "What do you mean you can't control the streets? It seems to me to be obvious. Call in the National Guard." He even turned capital punishment, which he supported, into a mayoral issue.
Autumn was already in the air when America was treated to a final image of the summer of '77. Talent had prevailed over infighting; the Yankees were in the World Series. Game 1 was in New York, with Howard Cosell behind the microphone for ABC. A couple of blocks from the ballpark, an arson fire raged. ABC cut repeatedly to the blaze, as Mr. Cosell melodramatically intoned, "There it is again, ladies and gentlemen. The Bronx is burning."
We are now a safe distance from that summer. In the last 25 years, we have seen the city boom and bust, and boom and bust again, reaching new heights in the Giuliani years with low crime, a thriving economy and a refurbished reputation. Along the way, many have deplored the loss of a civic ideal, that lofty, ineffable notion that Mr. Cuomo called the New York Idea. The more optimistic have held that the city was successfully recreating itself to survive.
As for the '77 Series, at least Reggie Jackson got his redemption. In the final game, he hit three consecutive home runs in three consecutive swings. Jackson later described his reaction to this unprecedented feat to a writer from Esquire magazine: "I knew I'd be able to breathe again."
So, too, would New York. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FEAR -- "I love to hunt," wrote David Berkowitz, Son of Sam, above left, after two of his killings. His letter to Jimmy Breslin, right, held the city in thrall.; FRACAS -- The tension between Billy Martin and Reggie Jackson mirrored New York's. (Associated Press); FRENZY -- A blackout in July 1977 set off a wave of looting and arson. About 3,500 people were arrested. (Tyrone Dukes/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The city faltered; discos flourished. (Waring Abbott); Graffiti threatened to overwhelm the subways and, for months, Mayor Beame grappled with the mess left by the midsummer looting and arson. (Associated Press); (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times)(pg. 10) Chart: "DOG DAYS: MEAN STREETS"June 15 -- The Mets trade pitcher Tom Seaver -- the Franchise -- to the Cincinnati Reds. June 18 -- Reggie Jackson and Billy Martin nearly come to blows in the Yankee dugout during a nationally televised game. June 26 -- David Berkowitz, or Son of Sam, shoots his 10th and 11th victims, near a discotheque in Bayside, Queens. July 13 -- Lightning strikes several key power lines, plunging the city into a 25-hour blackout. Looting and pillaging is widespread. July 20 -- A heat wave enters its eighth day, with temperatures spiking above 100 degrees. July 31 -- Son of Sam shoots his final victims, numbers 12 and 13, near Gravesend Bay, Brooklyn Aug. 10 -- Son of Sam is captured getting into his Ford Galaxy in front of his Yonkers home.. Aug. 26 -- In another chapter in the city's fiscal woes, an S.E.C. report accuses it of misleading the public about its finances in 1974 and 1975. Sept. 19 -- Ed Koch, whose get-tough stance is playing well in a fearful city, defeats Mario Cuomo in the runoff of the Democratic mayoral primary. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); POWER FAILURES (86%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); GOLF (75%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (75%); VANDALISM (74%); TRENDS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); HOMICIDE (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); ARSON (60%); HOSPITALS (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NINETEEN HUNDRED SEVENTY-SEVEN; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); ARSON; LOOTING; DISCOTHEQUES; BASEBALL 

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS (59%); NEW YORK METS (59%); NEW YORK YANKEES (59%) ;NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: MAHLER, JONATHAN; BERKOWITZ, DAVID (MURDERER) (SON OF SAM); JACKSON, REGGIE; MARTIN, BILLY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



679 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS; 
More Than Ever, Ecuador Is Doing Business Here

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
Giobhany Pina, a 23-year-old restaurant worker, wanted to surprise his wife in Cuenca, Ecuador, with a new stove for Mother's Day. So he strolled into the Roosevelt Avenue showroom of Comandato, a major Ecuadorean appliance chain, and picked a model he liked. Soon, the $450 stove arrived at his wife's house, and for the same price he would have paid if he had gone to one of Comandato's 45 stores in Ecuador. 
 Comandato is one of several Ecuadorean companies that have opened branches or affiliates on a stretch of Roosevelt Avenue near 81st Street in the last few years. Immigrants can open a bank account at Banco del Austro, for instance, or buy prepaid health care for their children back home at Salud S.A. 
 Foreign companies do open branches in New York's immigrant areas, but they are often banks offering simple money-wiring services. By contrast, the city's approximately 150,000 Ecuadoreans can choose from a rich variety of services.
"It institutionalizes the ability to live in two different worlds," said Peggy Levitt, a sociology professor at Wellesley College. "If you're living here and furnishing your home down there, that's amazing." Two forces behind the trend are a growing Ecuadorean population here, and a severe economic crisis at home. 
With an account at Banco del Austro, immigrants receive a debit card that can be used at New York stores and cash machines. Their relatives in Ecuador also get cards, but with a twist: the account holder can set withdrawal limits for each person. The service saves account holders from wiring money separately to each relative, and allows them to lock in savings.
"What motivated us to form the business was that the Ecuadorean could not administer his money from here because of his undocumented status," said Xavier Tamariz, general manager of Austro Financial Services. Since Austro opened in February 2001, about 6,000 immigrants have opened accounts, Mr. Tamariz said.
Immigrants also appreciate that their relatives no longer have to pick up large sums of money at agencies in Ecuador. "It's much safer if it goes directly into the bank," said Mr. Pina, who wires $300 to his account every two weeks.
These businesses also give immigrants greater control over their money. The flier for Salud, the health care company, shows a grinning construction worker saying: "Now with Salud, I protect my family in Ecuador. Because the well-being of my family is my peace of mind." SETH KUGEL

GRAPHIC: Photo: Comandato delivers, from Roosevelt Avenue to South America. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); WIRE TRANSFERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (74%); CHILDREN (74%); TRENDS (71%); REFUGEES (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); DEBIT CARDS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HEALTH CARE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECUADORAN-AMERICANS 

PERSON: KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



680 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Learn Now, Pay Back (Somewhat Less) Later

BYLINE:  By BETH KOBLINER 

 BODY:
EMILY BITTNER graduated from Northwestern University last weekend with a string of accomplishments that would make any parent proud. She was managing editor of the school newspaper, received a prestigious national journalism award and completed an internship in Paris. She also left with $16,400 in student loans and $2,500 in credit card debt. 
 Just two years ago, when the economy was stronger, Ms. Bittner's debt might not have worried her. But as college graduates enter the toughest job market in years, she and others are wondering how they will erase the red ink. 
 "Everyone is so upset and uncertain," said Ms. Bittner, 22, of Duluth, Minn. 
But if the sluggish economy has created difficulties for new graduates, it has also meant opportunities. Tomorrow, interest rates on federal Stafford loans, the most common type of education loan, will drop nearly two percentage points, to 4.06 percent from 5.99 percent. That is the lowest rate in the 37-year history of the program. 
Many recent graduates will be able to refinance their loans and lock in the low rates. The Higher Education Project of the State Public Interest Research Groups, a consumer advocacy group, estimates that a student with $16,780 in total debt at graduation, the national average for all student borrowers, would save about $2,600 in interest costs over 10 years.
Students have been increasing their borrowing over the last decade -- nearly two-thirds of all college seniors graduate with loans -- because of both skyrocketing college costs and a wide expansion of the federal student loan program. For the most recent school year, the average annual cost for a four-year private college, including tuition, room, board, books and transportation, was $26,070, up 62 percent from a decade ago, while the average annual cost for a four-year public school was $11,976, up 59 percent, the College Board said.
During that period, the federal government made more loans available and created plans directed at families previously considered too well off to use the program. For example, all undergraduates, regardless of family financial needs, are now eligible for as much as $23,000 in Stafford loans, subsidized by the federal government or not, while undergraduates not dependent on their parents can borrow up to $46,000.
Grants available from states and the federal government, however, have not increased fast enough to fill in the gaps for many students. For instance, the federal Pell grant program, which has helped many students from low-income families, had covered, on average, 98 percent of tuition costs at public four-year colleges and universities in 1986, but covered just 59 percent in 2000, according to the College Board. 
Michael S. McPherson, president of Macalester College in St. Paul and an expert on student debt, said he was concerned about the effects on low-income families. "There is a worry that requiring high levels of loans will have the effect of discouraging those folks from going to school," he said.
The severity of the debt burden may not yet be known. Jacqueline E. King, director of the Center for Policy Analysis at the American Council on Education in Washington, a group representing colleges and universities, said that more research needs to be done to determine the extent of the problem, but that she thinks most students are managing well.
"Given that the economy has slowed," she said, "we expect students with B.A.'s will see some difficulties, but the likelihood they would get into so much trouble that they wouldn't be able to repay is slim." 
Last November, Ms. King's group analyzed Census Bureau income data from 1990 to 2000 and found that the median monthly student loan payment was about 7 percent of a graduate's monthly gross income, just below the 8 percent that many lenders use as a threshold for manageability.
A separate study conducted last March by the State Public Interest Research Groups, however, estimated that 39 percent of student-loan payers exceeded the 8 percent limit. "The debt burden becomes a ball and chain for too many student borrowers," said Ellynne Bannon, a higher-education advocate for the group. 
The federal Education Department is expected to complete at year-end its own study of students' debt burden. 
What is clear, however, is that the job climate for recent college graduates has changed for the worse. Only two years ago, many new graduates were deluged with job offers. But a recent survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employers found that 79 percent of colleges reported a decrease in the number of companies recruiting on their campuses this year, compared with last year. The unemployment rate for people aged 20 to 24, meanwhile, was 8.9 percent in May, after reaching an eight-year high of 10.3 percent in March. The rate in May 2001 was 7.9 percent.
The tight employment market has caused many new graduates to rethink career plans. Ms. Bittner, who had originally hoped to land a job at a newspaper, will instead become a volunteer health care worker in West Africa. "I'm going to ride out the job market and join the Peace Corps," she said. 
As an added benefit of her volunteering, a portion of her debt will be forgiven. More than $9,500 of Ms. Bittner's debt is in the form of federal Perkins loans; the government forgives from 15 percent to 70 percent of Perkins debt for Peace Corps volunteers, depending on the length of service.
PUBLIC service is not the only option for those who want to reduce the sting of loan obligations. Individuals may claim an annual tax deduction on up to $2,500 of interest payments on their student loans. Until this year, the deduction was available only for the first five years of interest payments. Starting this year, borrowers may take the deduction for the life of the loan. The income limits for the deduction have also been increased -- single filers with adjusted gross incomes of less than $65,000, or married couples filing jointly with incomes of less than $130,000, will be eligible for at least a partial deduction in 2002. In 2001, the deduction was completely phased out for singles with incomes of at least $55,000 and couples with incomes of at least $75,000.
Financial advisers recommend that recent graduates consider refinancing their loans to take advantage of the new low rates. The process, known as consolidation, allows them to combine all or some of their federal loans -- including subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans, Perkins loans and Plus loans for parents -- into one large loan. (Loans that have been consolidated previously are not eligible.)
The consolidated-loan rate is a weighted average of the rates on all the original loans, rounded up to the nearest one-eighth of a percentage point.
Unlike the original loans, on which interest rates tend to fluctuate year to year, consolidated loans carry a fixed rate. So those who consolidate loans after tomorrow, when the low rates kick in, can secure those rates permanently. (In May, the Bush administration had considered eliminating the fixed rate on consolidation loans, but retracted the proposal after much opposition.) 
Stafford loans taken out on or after July 1, 1998, for example, would have a rate of 4.125 percent when consolidated. (Students who consolidate Stafford loans within six months of graduation are entitled to a consolidated rate of 3.5 percent.) Stafford loans obtained before July 1, 1998, will likely be consolidated at rates of about 5 percent or less. Plus loans obtained on or after July 1, 1998, consolidate at 4.875 percent.
"For most people this is likely to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to lock into a low interest rate for the life of their loan," said Kalman A. Chany, author of "Paying for College Without Going Broke" (Princeton Review, 2001.)
Consolidation may not be appropriate for every borrower. Ms. Bittner, for example, would lose the chance to have her Perkins loans reduced if they were consolidated. 
Borrowers interested in consolidating should first contact the current holder of their loans. In some cases, they may be eligible to shop around. There are no fees to consolidate, and some consolidators may offer lower rates to borrowers whose payments are withdrawn electronically from their bank accounts or who make timely payments. (Starting tomorrow, for example, Sallie Mae, a company that owns and manages student loans, offers a rate reduction of one percentage point for borrowers with at least $10,000 in loans who make their first 48 monthly payments on time.)
In addition to guaranteeing a fixed rate, consolidating allows borrowers to change the terms of their repayment periods. For example, the standard 10-year repayment term for student loans can be stretched to 30 years. The extension sharply lowers the mandatory monthly payments on the loan. That could free up extra money to pay off high-interest-rate credit card debt, which many students amass to pay for living expenses or school supplies. After paying off their higher-rate loans, they should resume paying off their student loan as if the terms had not been extended, to avoid paying more interest over the life of the student loan.
"Young people are leaving college today with so much debt that even if they do nothing but pay off loans, it will be 10 years before they can start saving for a home," said Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and a bankruptcy expert.
But educators and financial experts say time is on the side of most graduates, and that they ultimately will have higher earning power. In 2000, those with bachelor's degrees earned 1.82 times as much, on average, as high school graduates, according to data from the Census Bureau. 
"Two-thirds of all high school graduates are heading for college, and there is no way for them to do that without taking on some debt," Mr. McPherson said. "I don't think you would want to eliminate that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Bittner moved out of her apartment after graduating from Northwestern University. She has $16,400 in student loans. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) Chart: "Cash for College"College students across all economic levels are borrowing more money for school. AVERAGE STAFFORD LOAN TOTAL AT GRADUATION BY INCOME, IN 1999 DOLLARS* Lowest income quartile1989-90: $5,6781999-00: $12,888 Second income quartile1989-90: $5,8661999-00: $13,012 Third income quartile1989-90: $4,9801999-00: $12,950 Highest income quartile1989-90: $4,6051999-00: $11,694 SHARE OF STUDENTS WITH LOANS Lowest income quartile1989-90: 56.2%1999-00: 63.8 Second income quartile1989-90: 42.11999-00: 55.7 Third income quartile1989-90: 29.11999-00: 55.6 Highest income quartile1989-90: 16.71999-00: 44.5 *For seniors who borrowed at four-year public institutions and are listed as dependents on their parents' tax returns. (Source: National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (56%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: KOBLINER, BETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); DULUTH, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



681 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Clyde S. McGregor; 
Oakmark Equity and Income Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
VALUE fund managers should be penny pinchers, says Clyde S. McGregor, lead manager of the $2.4 billion Oakmark Equity and Income fund.
 "It's second nature to me to save paper clips," Mr. McGregor said recently from his office in downtown Chicago. "The stock market will continue to offer us opportunities to buy $1 worth of assets for 50 cents as long as human nature leads to cycles of overwhelming optimism and pessimism." 
 The fund returned 12.3 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, placing in the top 1 percent of domestic hybrid funds, which own stocks and bonds. That group lost 0.8 percent a year, on average, over the period, compared with an 11.9 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. The portfolio is up 6 percent in the 12 months through Thursday, versus losses of 6.8 percent for its group and 17.1 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Mr. McGregor, 49, has managed the fund since its inception in November 1995. He is a partner in Harris Associates, the fund's adviser, and manages about $900 million, mostly for individuals. Edward A. Studzinski, 51, became co-manager of the fund in March 2000.
Stocks make up about 60 percent of the fund, with most of the rest in bonds. In choosing stocks, Mr. McGregor looks for yardsticks that companies use to make acquisitions, then applies them to the securities market. "Management has to understand the economics of a business to make a successful acquisition," he said. "Each business has its idiosyncratic pricing, and our job is to ferret that out."
For example, he said, regional-brand food companies are generally valued at one-time annual sales, while energy companies are valued on a measurement of their proved and probable reserves.
He aims to buy stocks that he believes trade for no more than 60 percent of their intrinsic value and generally sells shares that trade for 90 percent of that value or more.
Twenty-five percent of the fund's assets are invested in United States Treasury securities, with half of that amount in inflation-indexed bonds, called Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS. He began buying them in January, when the inflation premium built into the bonds averaged 1.1 or 1.2 percent. "It's difficult for us to imagine that inflation will remain that low over the next five to seven years," he said. "Our society needs a little inflation to grease the wheels of our economic engine."
In May 1996, Mr. McGregor began buying shares of the Catellus Development Corporation, a San Francisco company that manages, acquires, develops and sells real estate. He has paid $17.60, on average, for the position; the shares now trade at $20.42, compared with what he estimates as their intrinsic value of $33.50. The shares are mispriced, he said, because Catellus pays no dividend. That is partly because management is using excess cash flow to strengthen the company's balance sheet, he said, adding, "Management is wonderful at leveraging shareholder equity in the business, buying back shares when they're cheap and making sensible capital allocation decisions."
LAST August, he started buying shares of Synopsys, a chip-design software maker in Mountain View, Calif. He paid $46, on average, for the position; prices had fallen from above $60 in the spring of 2001, when some Wall Street analysts expressed skepticism about the company's new sales strategy, to stop giving customer discounts to meet sales quotas. 
Mr. McGregor said that the strategy makes sense, and that the company has a profitable business, holds about $7 or $8 a share in cash and has no debt. The shares now trade at $54.81, versus his estimated intrinsic value of $105.
Last December, Mr. McGregor bought bonds issued by Gap Inc., the retailer. They mature in 2007 with a 6.9 percent coupon and are rated BB+ by Standard & Poor's, on the lower end of investment grade. He paid $84; they now trade at $91.27. Gap had problems at the end of 2001 because its sales fell, Mr. McGregor said. "While they have made merchandising mistakes," he said, "Gap has a strong brand name."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clyde S. McGregor, front, and Edward A. Studzinski put about 60 percent of their fund in stocks. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times) Chart: "Oakmark Equity and Income"Category: Domestic hybridNet assets: $2.4 billionInception: November 1995Managers: Clyde S. McGregor since inception, Edward A. Studzinski since March 2000Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($1,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 124%3-year annualized return through Thursday: +12.3%Category average: -0.8% Sector breakdownOther: 30%Capital goods: 8%Financial: 9%Treasury bonds: 25%Health care: 16%Consumer cyclicals: 12% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.15% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); CATELLUS DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKMARK INTERNATIONAL 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; MCGREGOR, CLYDE S 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



682 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS; 
Roots in Israel, Head in Silicon Valley

BYLINE:  By SCOTT HARRIS 

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif. 

 BODY:
BACK when the term Y2K sent shivers through the business world, Mercury Interactive happily catered to companies that needed to check system upgrades, solidifying its position as a leader in the obscure software-testing market. As the year-2000 business played itself out, Mercury executives spied a new opportunity.
 "One day in early 1999, we said the Web is the future -- we have to focus our efforts," Amnon Landan, the chief executive, recalled. 
 Mercury Interactive, a Silicon Valley company with roots in Israel and offices in 25 countries, soon became a force in the new field of Web management. Its client list now includes about 75 percent of the nation's 500 largest companies; government institutions like the State Department, Army, Navy and Air Force; CBS's Survivor.com; and the author Stephen King. While software testing provides the bulk of Mercury's business, Web management has grown to produce more than 20 percent of revenue in just over two years. 
Now Mercury has repositioned itself again, having figured out a way to profit from the dot-com implosion by helping businesses tune information technology they already own. Industry and financial analysts say Mercury is strengthening its grip as the market leader in fields that are growing in importance, while most software companies are struggling. Mr. Landan, who is also president and chairman, concurs. 
"Short term, the downturn is not good for us," he said, citing reduced revenue and a stock price about half its level of a year ago. "Long term, it's actually positive."
Mercury's resilience was reflected in its first-quarter performance. In the 10 days leading up to its April 12 report, Mercury stock shed 30 percent of its value, a slide attributed to revenue warnings from software giants like Oracle and the conflict in Israel, home to a quarter of Mercury's 1,600-member work force, including most of its research and development staff. But when the quarterly report was issued, it included 18 percent growth in revenue, and earnings of 14 cents a share beat Wall Street forecasts by 4 cents. The stock jumped 25 percent in a day.
Analysts and Mercury executives cite several factors for the company's success. One is simply that tight times tend to hit smaller companies harder, as risk-averse customers gravitate toward market leaders like Mercury. The company is also regarded as having a focused, aggressive and prescient management. "Mercury has a good reputation in being inventive and creative and able to spot trends," said Theresa Lanowitz, an analyst at Gartner.
The company's latest service, ActiveTune, is a case in point. Mercury saw an opportunity in companies that gorged on information technology "solutions" during the dot-com craze without knowing how to best use the new technology.
"Everybody was afraid of getting Amazoned," Mr. Landan said. "They didn't want to get left behind."
Companies loaded up on consumer-response management software because it was the hot new thing, he said, but had only a vague notion of how it would be used. Now, with budgets tight, those companies want to squeeze value out of their investments. ActiveTune is intended to do just that. "Today we are cleaning all of this mess," Mr. Landan said. 
This is also an opportunity for Mercury's rivals. Tommi A. White, chief operating officer of Compuware, said that many companies were frustrated with troubled systems that caused costly disruptions in assembly lines or distribution. Compuware markets what it calls a "family of products" covering the spectrum of building, testing and managing systems.
Mercury's tuning service "is really nothing new," said Richard Pugh, the sales director at Compuware. "It's just a different spin on the same type of service."
If so, it has been an effective spin, said Katherine Egbert, an analyst at C. E. Unterberg, Towbin. Companies did not necessarily know that they needed ActiveTune, she said, adding, "It's only been out a couple of quarters, but it's done pretty well." Mercury is working on software that would transform its service into a product that companies could use on their own.
Mercury's headquarters is in the heart of Silicon Valley. Inside his spare corner office decorated with photographs of his wife and four children, Mr. Landan, 43, carries himself with a no-nonsense air. The tuning business is still new, he said, one that he predicts will be as successful as Mercury's more-established testing line and its Web performance-management products and services.
MERCURY'S Israeli roots may have influenced the company's rigorous culture. Mr. Landan seems almost serene when he says the recent Palestinian-Israeli strife has not affected Mercury's operations. "You have to understand," he said. "We were developing the early version of our product when Scud missiles were falling on Tel Aviv." On time and under budget, he added.
When necessary, the company has been disciplined. In July 2001, sensing a downturn in the technology industry, Mercury cut 140 jobs and its executives took a 15 percent pay cut. That was only two months after Mercury had expanded by paying $147 million cash for a Colorado software company. "They understand that survivability is more important in a tough environment than growth," said Thomas Berquist, a Goldman, Sachs analyst.
Mercury executives say they have more than 60 percent of the market for enterprise software testing, while Ms. Lanowitz of Gartner puts it closer to 50 percent. But Mercury is so dominant, she said, that its rivals -- Compuware, Rational Software, Segue Software and Empirix -- have to demonstrate clearly why their products are better suited to a customer's particular needs. In the growing Web-management field, Mercury's chief rival is BMC Software.
Mercury was established with the idea that software could test software. In the late 1980's, Mr. Landan was among a group of engineers at Daisy Systems who had grown frustrated with testing Unix systems manually. In 1989, led by Daisy's founder, Aryeh Finegold, they started Mercury Interactive to make software testing tools, raising $11.5 million in venture capital. (Mr. Finegold left in 1999.) Mercury was a pioneer in the field -- along with Segue and SQA, a company that Rational acquired in 1997. It became profitable in 1993, with $5 million in venture financing still in the bank, Mr. Landan said. It went public the same year.
Mercury expanded its business from testing Unix to testing Windows and to testing enterprise-resource programs that help companies run and manage internal systems. In 1998 and 1999, it earned significant profits by testing Y2K upgrades.
Then the business world fully embraced the Internet -- and found that systems can falter under intense traffic. Mercury developed a line of performance-management tools for Web-based applications with names like ActiveWatch and Topaz. This business helped to vault Mercury into the ranks of America's fastest-growing businesses; in 2001, Fortune ranked it No. 9 in this category.
Not all of Mercury's tools are home-grown. Its acquisition of Freshwater Software, based in Boulder, Colo., in May 2001 enabled it to add a popular Web-troubleshooting tool called SiteScope -- and more than 3,000 clients.
In a place notorious for its new-economy flash, Mercury is something of a throwback. Analysts say the company has a distinctly old-economy style -- conservative, stable and tightfisted.
By high-technology standards, Mercury's leadership has been relatively stable, said Mr. Berquist of Goldman, Sachs. The geopolitical risks of its operations based in Israel, he added, are offset by the tax breaks Mercury receives for its presence there. Some other software companies, he added, would have been wise to follow Mercury's lead in reducing payrolls last year.
Mercury's cautious manner extends to its dealings with Wall Street. Writing in Israel Business Arena, Shlomi Cohen, a fund manager, recently suggested that "Landan inherited the art of managing the expectations, particularly those of the analysts," from Mr. Finegold.
But Mr. Landan said, "The day you start managing for Wall Street is a very bad day and your business is going to suffer for this." He named Enron and Global Crossing as negative examples. "It is very common in high tech to create hype," he said. "We are the other way around. We have this big steak with very little sizzle."
The chief operating officer, Kenneth R. Klein, said: "A lot of companies overpromise and underdeliver. We've been underpromising and overdelivering for a long time."
MERCURY has a stealthy reputation, Mr. Berquist said, largely because its products are so technical. But while its products are little known to the public, Ms. Lanowitz emphasizes that testing and Web-management tools are becoming ever more important as Internet transactions become more complex.
"Software should be like a utility," she said -- as reliable as water from a faucet. "We shouldn't be confronted with messages like Java script at line 275: 'Do you wish to debug?' You sit there and go, 'What? I don't know.' " The next wave for Mercury and its rivals, she suggested, may be upgraded testing for wireless applications.
Given the opportunities, Mercury suddenly does not seem so averse to promotion. "We can no longer fly in stealth mode," Mr. Landan said. "Spending is tight, and we are playing a much bigger game than we played before. We'd like to be a billion-dollar company. There are high risks but big rewards."
There is also the sobering risk that troubles in his homeland could complicate Mercury's agenda. So far, 10 or 15 employees in Israel have been called up for military duty, Mr. Landan said, not nearly enough to affect operations. All-out war, he said, could lead to contingency plans like the evacuation of workers and their families to the United States. "I think the likelihood is very low," he added. "And if that happens, we'll all be occupied with the bigger picture."
In the meantime, from a Silicon Valley haunted by empty offices where dot-commers famously "drank the Kool-Aid" of dubious business plans, Mercury Interactive busily peddles software and services that are supposed to make companies leaner and meaner -- or more like Mercury. As Mr. Landan put it: "We drink our own merlot."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amnon Landan runs Mercury Interactive, a successful Web-management company, from Sunnyvale, Calif. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TRENDS (71%); ARMIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); NAVIES (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); WRITERS (68%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; TESTS AND TESTING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: MERCURY INTERACTIVE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: HARRIS, SCOTT; LANDAN, AMNON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



683 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Vouchers: A Shift, But Just How Big?

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE 

 BODY:
WHEN the Supreme Court upheld Cleveland's school voucher program, voucher supporters exulted that the decision would be as important as Brown v. Board of Education. It would, they said, create a seismic wave of similar programs across the country, shifting students, money and attention from public to private schools.
 But the voucher ruling may resemble Brown less because of what will happen than because of what won't. 
 "It may very well be Brown v. Board of Ed, but guess what, Brown didn't do all that much to desegregate the schools because there was so much political opposition to it," said James E. Ryan, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Virginia who was co-author of an article on the politics of school choice in the most recent Yale Law Review. 
In fact, despite the Brown decision, schools are still largely segregated, and most poor black children still receive a substandard education. Its real importance was spiritual, not practical; it raised the nation's consciousness about its obligation to provide blacks the same educational opportunities as whites. So, too, the main effect of the voucher decision may be to make people more open to different forms of public education, especially in poor cities.
"The doomsday idea is that somehow this is going to destroy the public school system," said Terry M. Moe, a Stanford professor whose book, "Politics, Markets, and America's Schools," written with John E. Chubb, helped push the voucher movement in the early 1990's. "I think it's just going to change people's idea of what a public school system is."
To begin with, there are not enough spaces in private or parochial schools to accommodate more than a relative handful of children. And the teachers' unions have successfully blocked vouchers in almost every instance. In addition, there are other, less visible obstacles to the spread of vouchers, like the fact that well-off suburban parents oppose them.
As first proposed by the economist Milton Friedman and embraced by the Reagan administration, vouchers were individual educational subsidies, taken from state and local education budgets, to be given to everyone. They were based on the free market notion that the way to improve public schools was to force them to compete.
But the argument that swayed the court last week was rooted in morality, not economics. In recent years, conservatives have talked little about the need for competition and instead aligned themselves with groups of black parents who argued that, unlike wealthy whites, they couldn't choose where to school their children. They were stuck with neighborhood schools, which were often dreadful. In Cleveland, for example, just 10 percent of students scored at acceptable levels at the worst schools.
"Parental school choice is widespread -- unless you're poor," became the mantra of the Black Alliance for Educational Options, one of the largest pro-voucher groups. And these groups say they don't support vouchers for anyone but poor students.
"We didn't get into this to give resources to people who already have them," said Howard Fuller, the chairman of the Black Alliance and a former schools superintendent in Milwaukee, the site of the nation's first voucher program.
Even some voucher proponents who once argued for universal subsidies now say the programs should be focused on city schools. And that will likely be just fine with suburban parents who have opposed vouchers in polls and recent state referendums.
"The most compelling argument for vouchers is a moral argument, but there's a fit between the moral argument and the political reality,' said Joseph P. Viteritti, a professor of public policy at New York University.
Suburban parents oppose vouchers, as they did busing, in part because they do not want to open up their schools to students from the cities. The Cleveland choice program allowed parents to use the vouchers in suburban schools, but only if suburban schools agreed, and none did.
These parents may also resist vouchers, as they have resisted charter schools, because their existence might suggest that the local schools aren't as good as advertised -- which would be bad for property values.
In poll after poll, people are likely to say they think their own schools are doing a good job. The problem, they believe, is in other people's schools, especially when those other people are in the cities.
"That feeling may create sympathy for vouchers, but it's also going to limit vouchers," Mr. Viteritti said.
That could change if suburban parents begin to feel that their schools are faltering -- which could happen if the results of a whole new battery of standardized tests begin to expose faults in the system.
There is also the possibility that a more well-to-do parent might go to court to challenge a program that gives vouchers to some but not to others, just as whites have fought minority preferences for minority students at elite public schools.
Still, there are other factors limiting the spread of voucher programs.
THE original notion of vouchers would have left it to the market to determine the quality of the private schools where they were used. Now, proponents like Mr. Moe argue that the programs should include regulations requiring the private schools to use a lottery for admissions, so they don't take only the top students, and tests to make sure the curriculum is high quality.
"Will private schools agree? Not all of them," Mr. Moe said.
In the end, then, vouchers are likely to push the public school system to evolve, albeit slowly, into one that embraces more choices for more students. "The way to look at it is, this will encourage a movement toward a mixed system, where we have the regular public school system that serves more than half the kids, but where there are many kids in urban areas that use vouchers to go to public schools," Mr. Moe said.
It is a change that is already under way, with 1 in 4 parents using some kind of public school choice. 
Opponents of vouchers may rue the court's decision as the demise of the democratic notion of the common school. In reality, Bruce Fuller, a professor of education at the University of California-Berkeley, said, "The idealism around common schooling has worn pretty thin in the minds of many parents." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rally at the Supreme Court in favor of school vouchers. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (93%); SUPREME COURTS (93%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); CHURCH & STATE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIGION (88%); SCHOOL CHOICE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); APPEALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); WRITERS (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); SUBURBS (61%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%) SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: ZERNIKE, KATE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CLEVELAND (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



684 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Clay Feet; 
Could Capitalists Actually Bring Down Capitalism?

BYLINE:  By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
OVER the last few centuries, capitalism has been the heartiest contender in the global bout for economic supremacy. It emerged from its decades-long death match with communism as the unquestioned victor. Its dust-up with socialism barely lasted a few rounds. It flourished in wartime, and survived wrongheaded assaults from embargoes and tariffs. Even terrorism aimed at capitalism's heart failed to deliver a knock-out punch.
 But now, a staggering rush of corporate debacles is raising a disturbing question: can capitalism survive the capitalists themselves? 
 The scandals that have oozed out of corporate America with alarming regularity in recent months have repeatedly featured executives betraying the marketplace for their own short-term self-interest. From Enron to Global Crossing, Adelphia to WorldCom, the details differ but the stories boil down to the same theme: the companies lied about their performance, and investors paid the price. 
To those inured to corporate wrongdoing -- perhaps by the insider trading scandals or the savings and loan debacle of recent decades -- the latest scourge of white-collar malfeasance might seem like more of the same, with greedy executives cutting corners to make a profit. But in truth, the corporate calamities of the new millennium are of a different ilk, one that challenges the credibility of the financial reporting system, and in turn the faith of investors in the capital markets -- the very engine that has driven capitalism to its success.
It wasn't supposed to be like this. In the wake of the stock market crash in 1929 and the ensuing revelation of the scams and rigged dealings that had helped inflate the market, America faced what appeared to be capitalism's chief vulnerability. Through Senate hearings in the early 1930's with the special counsel Ferdinand Pecora, investors learned about stock price manipulation, insider trading and profiteering through so-called investment trusts, all of which had made fortunes for the capitalists, while costing investors their savings.
How did it happen? Capitalism, at its most basic, dictates that the company producing the best product at the lowest price wins. For capitalists, victory is measured solely in profits. Left to their own devices, it was clear, some capitalists would aggressively pursue profits even if it meant cheating the investors who provided all the capital.
So, the game stayed the same, but the government put in referees. Congress passed the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and 1934, and created a new federal agency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, to enforce those laws. Disclosure became the centerpiece of the system. Companies could pretty much make whatever business decision they wanted, so long as the material information was revealed to investors in periodic filings with the S.E.C. 
The result was an entire bulwark of protections: the board of directors entrusted with overseeing corporate managements, the independent accounting firms relied upon to insure the numbers were accurate, the government regulators in place to supervise the rules.
Despite all the apparent bricks and mortar of these protections, they turned out to be as permanent and impenetrable as smoke. At bottom, the system still relied on faith -- just in someone besides the top executives or company owners. The trust was given to the competence of the directors, the integrity of the accountants and the abilities of regulators. 
That was evident back in 1933, when a member of Congress asked Col. A. H. Carter, senior partner of Deloitte Haskins & Sells: if accountants would be auditing the companies, who would be auditing the accountants? The reply was noble -- and proved to be hollow. "Our conscience," Colonel Carter said.
By the late 90's, as is now becoming clear, that foundation of personal integrity had been eroded by easy profits. Eventually, driven by shareholder expectations and their own stock-option packages, some executives began hiding losses incurred in the faltering economy, manipulating the numbers they reported to investors. 
The fact that their companies are, in all probability, bad apples among many, many honest corporations makes little difference. By being deceptive on their disclosures for short-term gain, these capitalists have led investors to question the reliability of all the reported data -- and the reliability of the checks and balances instituted to keep the data valid. Not only has the accounting branch of the market been tarred by Arthur Anderson's enabling of Enron's schemes, but, from company to company, insular boards of directors, incompetent internal auditors and underfunded regulatory oversight have allowed the perception of stringent standards and protections to wither. 
IT is not as if corporate cheating comes out of nowhere. History holds many tales of businessmen who begin breaking the rules in boom times, when rising stock prices literally give them a sense of invincibility. Then, as the markets turn -- and they always turn -- these men try to preserve their power and wealth with more wrongdoing. They keep believing that stock prices will rise and cover their misdeeds. They really seem to think they won't get caught.
This time, the crisis in investor confidence is becoming a primary policy issue for the leaders of the industrialized world -- a world largely formed on the American model, and that the United States has insisted virtually everyone else follow, too. 
"It's a preoccupation of all the leaders that this is creating at this time a lack of confidence in the markets, and people are not sure about the way that information is transmitted to the public," Jean Chretien, the prime minister of Canada, said on the first day of a summit of the Group of Eight leading industrialized nations. 
Workers are going to take it on the chin. WorldCom started laying off 17,000 people on Friday. Many more people, at many other companies, are worried. 
And investors -- shaken by the past and uncertain where the next disaster might emerge -- are moving their money about, dumping many stocks and moving cash into safer havens, like Treasury bonds. 
Could the short-term, self-rewarding mentality of a handful of capitalists truly destroy capitalism? Bring on hundreds of bankruptcies, force banks under, end the giving of loans? Destroy America as we know it? 
Not very likely. The system has a built-in corrective factor, which kicks in when abuses go too far. Harm to investor confidence harms the market, which harms the ability of corporations to raise the capital they need to grow and be profitable. Eventually, the capitalists' desire get investor confidence back wins the day. 
Already, after years of sniffing at naysayers who wagged fingers about fundamentals, investors seem to be discovering a new affection for stodgy old stock analysis. "Nobody was paying attention to seemingly boring topics like accounting and corporate governance," said Troy Paredes, an associate professor at Washington University School of Law. "People are realizing that those are the things that matter."
At the same time, a range of proposals has emerged from Wall Street and Washington to overhaul corporate America. The S.E.C. is making moves to get tough on accounting standards. But still, there are some capitalists who are keeping their eyes on their short-term prize, betting that, despite all the evidence of corporate lies, investors need no substantial changes to justify keeping their confidence in the market. Many Wall Street firms are lobbying to cut back the power and authority of state securities regulators, the very individuals who historically have been particularly hard-nosed in their dedication to proper disclosure and investor protection.
Meanwhile, accounting firms are doing their all to beat back efforts to strengthen their regulation. On Capitol Hill, there were rumors that tough accounting legislation was dead -- until WorldCom exploded.
ULTIMATELY, capitalism will almost certainly survive this onslaught from the capitalists -- if only because survival is the most profitable outcome for all involved. Investors may well emerge wiser, less willing to jump into the latest fad and more concerned about the fundamentals. In the end, though, the experts say, that will only last as long as the memory of this period, which will wash away the next time unbridled exuberance creates a booming market.
"People eventually will emerge from this more discriminating about how they invest," said David Hawkins, a professor at Harvard Business School and Merrill Lynch's accounting consultant. "But this isn't the last time we'll go through this. People will forget, and it will all happen again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The market's up, the market's down; the New York Stock Exchange has weathered it all at Broad and Wall Streets for almost 100 years. (Justin Lane/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); ACCOUNTING (86%); MILLENNIUM (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); ETHICS (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (70%); BONDS (69%); US SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (69%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); TERRORISM (56%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%) ECONOMICS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



685 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Ready for a Bigger Birthday Party

BYLINE:  By JULIA MEURLING 

 BODY:
 The Fourth of July is always a big holiday, but because of intensified patriotism this year, celebrations are expected to be even grander. Sales of fireworks have been particularly brisk this season, according to Julie Heckman, executive director of the American Pyrotechnics Association. 
 Total fireworks sales, for professional and private use, have more than doubled over the last decade, to 162 million pounds in 2001 from 68 million pounds in 1990. Large annual displays, like Macy's in New York, which will use 40,000 pounds of fireworks, get the most attention. But, in fact, consumers bought two-thirds of the fireworks sold last year. Of those, 95 percent were used to celebrate the Fourth of July. JULIA MEURLING

Graph tracks total fireworks sales, measured in millions of pounds, from 1990 to 2001.

RESTAURANT SALES
Graph tracks weekly year over year sales from January to June.

NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS
Graph tracks weekly year over year change from January to June.

HOUSING PRICES
Graph tracks Change in consumer price index from June 2001 to May 2002.

PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGS
Graph tracks weekly Totals in thousands from January to June.

ONLINE SALES
Graph tracks weekly Dollars in billions from January to June.

HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES
Graph tracks daily Four-week moving average for New York, Chicago and Los Angeles from January to June.

CONSUMER FIREWORKS LAWS BY STATE

Map of United States highlights areas which sells all or most fireworks, sells only sparklers, novelties, or bans sales of all fireworks.

(Sources: American Pyrotechnics Association fireworks ; NPDFoodworld restaurant sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics consumer prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); HIJACKING (79%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); TERRORISM (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); STATISTICS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); HOME PRICES (67%); HOUSING MARKET (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%) INDEPENDENCE DAY (US) (JULY 4); FIREWORKS; SALES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

PERSON: MEURLING, JULIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



686 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
30-Year Low for Money Markets

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer 

 BODY:
People who have parked cash in money market accounts received as low a return on their money last week as at any time in the last 30 years.
 The average yield on money-market fell to 1.31 percent last week, tying a three-decade low, according to by iMoneyNet Inc. of Westborough, Mass. 
 Money market rates are affected by short-term rates set by the Federal Reserve, which are at the lowest levels in 40 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%) BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: SOMMER, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



687 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Those H-1B Visas And Americans' Jobs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "As the Tech Economy Goes, So Go Special Visas" (June 16) described the H-1B visa as intended for "highly skilled foreigners to help fill jobs when no qualified Americans can be found." 
 I am so sick and tired of the high-tech employers' whine that schools in the United States are still not turning out enough graduates in math and science. 
American employers don't use the ones that have graduated!
I have a friend with a master's degree in math; I have a bachelor's degree in math and almost a master's in computer science. Yet we've been out of work for over a year with scant opportunities.
Why should we import more H-1B's? Why should my smart college-age kids be interested in pursuing a "career" like their dad's, being a disposable wage slave facing forced early retirement without pension?

JAMES JORDAN
Colorado Springs, June 21




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (91%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (87%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (87%); REFUGEES (74%); MATHEMATICS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LABOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VISAS; FOREIGN LABOR 

PERSON: JORDAN, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



688 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Singing Praises; 
Four Years After His Death, Sinatra Brings Down the House

BYLINE:  By TOM KUNTZ; Tom Kuntz is co-editor, with Phil Kuntz, of "The Sinatra Files: The Secret F.B.I. Dossier" (Three Rivers Press, 2000).

 BODY:
LAST week the House of Representatives, focused as ever on what it sees as important government business, voted to name the main post office in Hoboken, N.J., for Frank Sinatra, the city's most famous native son, who died in 1998 at the age of 82.
 The vote was unanimous, a reflection of the star's enduring popularity. Probably that explains why the speeches accompanying the bill were less a debate than a fulsome whitewash of the singer's life. And that's a shame if you're among the many like me who are drawn to Sinatra not just for his gifts but for the complexities of his outsized character -- the warts and all. 
 Here is a sampling of the notes that were hit, and not hit, on the floor of the House last week. TOM KUNTZ
What was said: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this bill that honors Frank Sinatra. It is appropriate that we name the Post Office in Hoboken, the birthplace of Frank Sinatra, after him. 
-- Representative John Sullivan, Republican of Oklahoma
What was unsaid: Appropriate? Maybe. Sinatra shunned his hometown for most of his life after he was pelted by tomatoes during a parade there in 1947. A more appropriate Sinatra P.O. would be Palm Springs, where among the guests at his palatial home were mobsters like Sam Giancana. Or Las Vegas, truly his kind of town.
What was said: Mr. Speaker . . . I am pleased to join with the gentleman from Oklahoma in support of this resolution. . . . Who could ever forget Frank Sinatra singing "My Way," "The Lady Is a Tramp," "Strangers in the Night"? . . . 
-- Representative Danny K. Davis, Democrat of Illinois
Unsaid: Sure, but who wouldn't like to forget some of the wince-inducing turkeys Sinatra recorded, especially for Columbia in the late 40's and early 50's, when the label was run by Mitch Miller? Among them: "Mama Will Bark," in which he howled like a mongrel.
What was said: The man who read lyrics with great clarity and emotion practically brought the house down every time he performed. -- Representative Davis
Unsaid: Well, not every time. In 1950, Sinatra's voice gave out at the Copacabana in New York when he strained to reach a high note during "Bali Hai." Moreover, later in his career, Sinatra kept on performing even though his voice was shot and he couldn't remember lyrics. As J. Randy Taraborrelli notes in his Sinatra biography, "As he got older, his greatest frustration would be that he could hear the notes reverberate in his mind; he just couldn't sing them."
What was said: Sinatra . . . was famous for the good times he had with his "Rat Pack" friends, which included Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. 
-- Representative Davis
Unsaid: What about the good times Sinatra had with Senator and soon-to-be-President John F. Kennedy? In 1960, an informant told the F.B.I. that when Kennedy stayed with Sinatra at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas, "show girls from all over town were running in and out of the senator's suite." That year Sinatra introduced J.F.K. and later Giancana to a former girlfriend, Judith Campbell, who had affairs with both men. Later, according to F.B.I. memos, the good times rolled on when the Rat Pack gave a "command performance" in 1962 at the mob-run Villa Venice outside Chicago, Sinatra's way of paying back favors from Giancana. 
What was said: Sinatra was a visionary, who saw many things way ahead of his time on the issue of civil rights, on the issue of race relations, on the issue of generosity. 
-- Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of New York
Unsaid: But he was no visionary regarding rock 'n' roll. He called Elvis Presley's music "a rancid smelling aphrodisiac" and rock in general a form of music "sung, played and written for the most part by cretinous goons." He later embraced the genre, however.
What was said: In films such as "The Manchurian Candidate" and "Von Ryan's Express," Sinatra the actor educates us on the heroic and selfless sacrifice of America's World War II and Korean War veterans, who vigorously defended the cherished principles of freedom and democracy. 
-- Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey
Unsaid: Sinatra never got to defend those cherished principles in quite the same way the G.I.'s did. This was because he avoided the World War II draft by claiming that he had a perforated eardrum, which was true, but also an irrational fear of crowds, highly doubtful. He made these assertions after earlier telling draft officials he had no mental or physical disabilities at all.
What was said: Frank Sinatra, as we all know, would not allow himself to be limited to just music. He appeared in more than 60 films that ranged from dark dramas to lighthearted comedies. . . . Just like everything else he did, Sinatra threw himself into every role, giving everything he had to give.
-- Representative John B. Larson, Democrat of Connecticut
Unsaid: Nonsense. Despite some fine performances, Sinatra was perhaps better known on the set for his poor work habits as an actor. He would often show up late or insist on doing scenes in one take. The films suffered accordingly.
What was said: Along with being featured performers on the Las Vegas entertainment scene, the Rat Pack went on to star in four amusing and witty films: "Ocean's Eleven," "Sergeants Three," "Four for Texas" and "Robin and the Seven Hoods." 
-- Representative Menendez
Unsaid: Actually, those four films were critical bombs.
What was said: He . . . fought Hollywood's blacklist in the 1950's, often putting unemployed actors and friends on his payroll. 
-- Representative Davis
Unsaid: Sinatra's support for those in Hollywood tagged as Communists or fellow travelers only went so far. In 1950, according to an F.B.I. memo, a Sinatra go-between approached the bureau with an offer from the singer to rat out Communists. And in 1960, Sinatra fired screenwriter Albert Maltz, one of the Hollywood 10 who had been held in contempt for refusing to testify before the House Committee on Un-American Activities. Sinatra reportedly did so under heavy pressure from Joseph P. Kennedy, who feared Maltz's association with Sinatra would hurt his son's campaign for president.
What was said: Although most Americans will remember Frank Sinatra for his chic and graceful presence, there was also a generous and philanthropic side for this superstar. 
-- Representative Menendez
Unsaid: Graceful and generous, yes, but also boorish and vindictive. Among his many intemperate outbursts, perhaps the most famous was Sinatra's 1947 assault on a hostile columnist, Lee Mortimer, outside Ciro's nightclub in Hollywood. And in 1964, Sinatra spurned a Catholic prison chaplain who wrote to Sinatra asking him to forgive his son's convicted kidnappers. Sinatra called the priest's appeal "presumptuous."
What was said: In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me just say that from time to time people will ask me, "Why do we do these resolutions?" "Why do we name post offices?" "Why do we take the time?" I think anyone who heard this discussion this afternoon should never have to ask that question again. 
-- Representative Davis
What was unsaid: Puh-leeze.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A tribute outside City Hall in Hoboken the month after Frank Sinatra's death in 1998. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POSTAL SERVICE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) POSTAL SERVICE; POST OFFICES AND EQUIPMENT; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: DANNY K DAVIS (58%); JOHN SULLIVAN (58%) KUNTZ, TOM; SINATRA, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES; HOBOKEN (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



689 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
A Foreign Sport Is No Longer Foreign

BYLINE:  By DON GARBER 

 BODY:
For many years, it has been popular in this country and others to label soccer as "un-American." Perhaps because the sport wasn't invented or dominated here, by a nation whose culture places such importance on being first and the best. Intelligent people have told me repeatedly that soccer is not "our" sport but "their" sport, meaning the rest of the world. But who are "they"? If you take a closer look at "us," you might be surprised to see that "they" are actually "we." 
 I read with great interest a quotation from the director of our nation's 2000 census, Kenneth Prewitt. "The 21st century will be the century in which we redefine ourselves," he said, "as the first country in world history which is literally made up of every part of the world." 
 Think about that. The old labels simply don't fit in a "New America." In today's world, soccer is perhaps the most American of all our nation's great sports.
Currently, the world's attention is turned to the largest championship in all of sports, the World Cup. Not to slight any of the other major sports championships, but there is only one event that starts with nearly 200 countries, narrows the list down to 32 finalists through a brutal two-year qualification process, pits them against each other in a monthlong global extravaganza and crowns a winner in front of half the world's population. To put it in traditional American terms, this is a true world series.
This year's World Cup in South Korea and Japan included a run by the United States men's team to the quarterfinals, the best showing in more than 70 years. This team was a reflection of what Prewitt referred to above. The team included players of various ethnic backgrounds -- from the cities and suburbs across America -- all who play for professional clubs here (in Major League Soccer) and abroad.
The success of America's team has led to increased visibility and credibility for our sport, our leagues and our players. It has also given a platform for the skeptics who believe professional soccer will never arrive in this country when, in fact, soccer, at all levels, is thriving in the United States.
Soccer is one of the largest and fastest growing participatory sports in America. Much of this popularity has come about because our sport does not discriminate based on physical size, ethnicity, socio-economic status or gender. All you need is a ball, some friends and some open space. This has resulted in our nation's high schools and colleges fielding teams in record numbers, feeding the development of players and fans for the professional ranks.
After the wildly successful World Cup in 1994, when the United States was the host and played to sold-out stadiums across the country, some of the most prominent businessmen and sportsmen in America -- Phil Anschutz, Lamar Hunt and Robert Kraft -- formed Major League Soccer. Several news media entrepreneurs saw a similar opportunity following the landmark 1999 Women's World Cup and started the Women's United Soccer Association in 2001. They all recognized that the country was changing and that professional soccer would benefit over the long term from those changes.
In only six and a half seasons, M.L.S. has attracted more than 16 million spectators to its regular-season games, with an average attendance of more than 15,000 a game. Since its inception, M.L.S. has had a major network and cable contract with ABC and ESPN. Also, according to the 2001 ESPN Kids Poll, M.L.S. is the fourth-favorite league among kids, comparing favorably to the N.F.L., N.B.A. and M.L.B.
Similar to the increase of stadium construction in football and the other arena sports, soccer-specific stadiums are being constructed to satisfy the demand of soccer fans. M.L.S. has one such stadium in Columbus, Ohio; a $70 million soccer stadium is under construction in Los Angeles, and there are serious discussions taking place in New Jersey, Dallas, Kansas City and Washington about building similar facilities.
Finally, we are witnessing in this World Cup the coming of age of the American professional soccer player, with literally millions more developing their games on soccer fields and alleyways throughout our country.
Our young players are among the best in the world and truly represent the "new America." Landon Donovan, a bilingual 20-year-old goal-scoring striker from Southern California; Brian McBride, a wholesome, gritty Midwesterner; Clint Mathis, a 25-year-old from rural Georgia whose independent, offbeat nature results in highlight-reel goals; DaMarcus Beasley, a 20-year-old African-American from urban Fort Wayne, Ind., who grew up loving basketball but excelling in soccer, and Pablo Mastroeni, a 25-year-old naturalized citizen whose artful defensive skill reflects his Argentine roots.
Yes, the American sports landscape is crowded. Yes, the sport has a long way to go to achieve the greatness of the other major leagues. But by any measure soccer has arrived. It has established its rightful place in the new America and will continue to spread its influence in the years to come.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Landon Donovan, 20, appearing on the "Late Show With David Letterman," is one of the young American soccer players with great promise. (John P. Filo/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); ETHNICITY (77%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); CENSUS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%) SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER) 

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (50%) GARBER, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



690 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: As Bolivians Vote, Populism Is on the Rise 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: EL ALTO, Bolivia, June 28 

 BODY:
Bolivians will elect a new president on Sunday from a colorful field of candidates, some of whom want to scale back market reforms as a way of addressing the country's stagnant economy and social turbulence.
 The growing income inequality, endemic corruption and widespread protests in this country of 8.3 million people have led to the emergence of such hopefuls as Evo Morales. An indigenous leader, Mr. Morales has surged in the polls on pledges to fight coca eradication efforts and to nationalize industries. 
 Political analysts see such proposals as potentially damaging to Bolivia, which in the 1980's was among the first South American countries to embrace privatization of state-owned industries and to carry out other market reforms.
But calls for a stronger government presence have been playing well in places like El Alto, which was transformed from a highland backwater near the capital, La Paz, into a sprawling city of its own as migrants settled after finding steady work in government mines, railroads and utilities. Now, like most Bolivians, those workers and their children toil in the so-called informal sector, hawking cheap toys or produce on the street or working in tiny, struggling businesses.
"Economically what we have is a total, complete crisis," said Rosendo Mamani, 53, who once mined tin and now sells sodas at a kiosk. "There is no job source. There is too much poverty. People eat just once a day."
Such sentiments have colored a campaign that, in many ways, is an important test for a country that has only 20 years of experience with democracy. Responding to the political winds, several of the 11 candidates have taken on a populist tilt.
The leader in the polls is an unlikely man of the people -- Manfred Reyes Villa, a multimillionaire and former army captain who was mayor of Cochabamba, Bolivia's third-largest city. He has been leading since April, when he overtook Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, a former president and pro-market reformer. 
Although he would probably not scale back reforms significantly, Mr. Reyes has raised doubts about the privatization of the oil industry and questioned whether all market reforms have been beneficial. His plan for dealing with poverty and a downcast economy is simple: spend $5 billion in five years to create a development bank to finance small businesses while improving education, health and other services.
"The people need to feel there is a new government, and that there is cash circulating," said Mr. Reyes, leader of the New Republican Force.
The candidate who has been third in the polls is also a former president, Jaime Paz Zamora, who has emphasized his "antineoliberal" credentials. But it is the fourth-place candidate, Mr. Morales, who has attracted the most attention lately, in part because he has experienced vehement American opposition.
On Wednesday, the United States ambassador, Manuel Rocha, said American aid could be jeopardized if voters supported a leader who defends the production of coca, which is used to make cocaine. Mr. Morales, who was expelled from Congress last year for inciting violence in Bolivia's coca-growing region, has led protests by coca farmers angered by the United States' largely successful efforts to eradicate the plant, costing Bolivia $600 million a year.
Though Mr. Rocha did not use Mr. Morales's name, his comments angered the National Election Board and Bolivian politicians of all stripes, including President Jorge Quiroga. Mr. Morales delighted in the attention, calling Mr. Rocha his "best campaign chief." Political analysts said Mr. Rocha's comments might help Mr. Morales's chances.
No candidate is expected to win the 50 percent majority needed to claim the presidency outright on Sunday, which would leave it up to Congress to pick a president on Aug. 6 from the top two candidates. Twenty-seven senators and 130 representatives will also be elected.
Mr. Morales's expected strong showing could help usher in to Congress as many as 15 candidates from his party, Movement Toward Socialism. He and his party could thus play an important role in building the coalition the winner will need to take the presidency.
"Morales is the king-maker," said Eduardo Gamarra, a Bolivian-born expert on the country at Florida International University in Miami.
Still, analysts note that it will be difficult for any future president to undo the economic reforms that Bolivia embraced in the 1980's. The country is trying to extricate itself from recession and a looming deficit. Foreign investment is needed for expensive ventures, like the ambitious plan to produce natural gas for the California market. 
"If they jump off, whole hog, from the reform path, they are going to wind up more isolated," said Russell Crandall, a Latin American specialist at Davidson College in North Carolina.
But for millions of people in this country, one of the poorest in South America, the market reform promises of prosperity and higher living standards never materialized. Most Bolivians live in poverty and the life expectancy, at 62 years, is among the lowest on the continent.
"People say there have been so many changes, but the social changes are not for the better," said Gonzalo Chavez, an economist and political analysts at Catholic University in La Paz.
Working in bakeries here, Brigida Quipse, 22, said that she has never earned more than $20 a month. "In my family, we all have to work," said Ms. Quipse, who still lives at home and who directs her anger at privatization programs. "Everyone earns just a little bit, so we need to put all our earnings together."
Frustration over the lack of jobs, as well as coca-eradication efforts that have left farmers without a suitable crop substitute, has led to protests that have ended in violence. "It's quite remarkable that Bolivia has not collapsed, given how vulnerable it is," Mr. Gamarra said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Jaime Paz Zamora handed out posters in El Alto just days before Sunday's presidential election. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COCAINE (90%); POLITICS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%) NATIONALIZATION OF INDUSTRY; PRIVATIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; COCA (PLANT); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: PAZ ZAMORA, JAIME; MORALES, EVO; REYES VILLA, MANFRED; SANCHEZ DE LOZADA, GONZALO; FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) BOLIVIA

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



691 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
Another Tribe, Another Casino (or in This Case, Maybe Two)

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: NORTH STONINGTON, Conn. 

 BODY:
NICK MULLANE apologizes for the piles of documents cramming his office at town hall. But really, it is perfect. It makes him look barricaded, which is how he sounds railing about the Indians and their casinos.
 "We have up the street, Yankee Stadium, 24 hours a day, seven days a week," he said. "Congestion! Traffic!" He opens another notebook documenting the ills of the Foxwoods Casino in the next town, and flips through press clippings. Gamblers committing suicide. A kid left in a car by an obsessed gambler. He reads one headline: "Massachusetts Man Found in Possession of Human Corneas at Casino." 
 Washington officially recognized another local Indian tribe last week, which most likely means another casino, maybe two.
"That group is getting the exclusive rights to run their own nation," said Mr. Mullane, the first selectman of this town near the Rhode Island border. "Who's looking out for me and my town?"
Nick Mullane sounds like the last angry man. But he may be just one of the first.
Old Yankee Connecticut is brewing its own little Sagebrush Rebellion.
Federal law allows gambling to be run by recognized tribes in states that permit gambling, and Connecticut, perfectly located between Boston and New York, has become a gamblers' promised land. The Foxwoods ditty ("Pop the cork, fingers snappin' ") might as well be the state song. The recent opening of a 34-story hotel at the nearby Mohegan Sun casino was so stacked with luminaries that Bill Clinton had to wait for Cher to sing before he played sax with the Blues Brothers.
But with last week's decision, and two other tribes seeking recognition, there is spreading fear of a glitz glut.
On Thursday night, in the hamlet of Union on the Massachusetts border, 200 people attended a meeting about the possibility of a casino off Route 84. One speaker was Jeff Benedict, who wrote a book questioning the history of the tribe running Foxwoods and is now an anti-casino candidate for Congress. He said people feared loss of local control because Indian casinos operate on sovereign land, immune from taxes, land-use regulations and environmental laws.
"The cards are stacked against us," said MaryBeth Gorke-Felice, a meeting organizer. She told what sounded like an Indian tale about a sparrow protecting its family from a hawk. "We're all just little sparrows here," she said.
The hawk is more the government than the tribes. Like the Indians who taught settlers to grow crops in unforgiving earth, today's Indians are helping states milk cash from unforgiving economies. 
In New York, officials are pushing Indian casinos for depressed areas upstate. Connecticut casinos have won some support by bringing jobs to areas hit by military cutbacks. 
In the early 90's, the Mashantucket Indians and Connecticut struck a deal allowing slot machines at Foxwoods in exchange for 25 percent of the take, which helped plug a budget deficit. This year the slots raised $372 million, the state's third-largest source of revenue, after income and sales taxes.
UP a dirt road on the reservation of the Eastern Pequot, the tribe recognized last week, a man named Old Crow said the federal decision validated the tribe and opened opportunities, like education and social service benefits. "You guys had all the rights that we didn't have," he said. "So now we are even."
But Mr. Mullane, the North Stonington selectman, wonders whether the Indians are now more than even. "We owe them something," he said. "What we did was wrong. I don't know how we pay them off. But what we're doing doesn't make sense."
Foxwoods, he said, has increased traffic to 25,000 vehicles a day from 8,800. The town has tripled its police force, to three state troopers from one. Property near the casino has lost value, he said, and now there's a pornography shop.
North Stonington and neighboring towns joined the Connecticut attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, in opposing Pequot recognition. The state contended that neither of two rival factions met the federal standard as ongoing tribes, but federal officials decreed them one legitimate tribe.
Jon Crane, a spokesman for the Paucatuck Eastern Pequot faction, which has 150 members, said the debate "has been slanted and perverted by people who think that it all has to do with casinos."
Mr. Crane said the opposition increased the likelihood of casino development, since the tribe needed a partner to pay to defend the petition. 
That's how the tribe found Donald J. Trump. "Mr. Trump has been very generous and supportive," Mr. Crane said. "He believes in the legitimacy of the tribe."
Not to mention the business of casinos. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); CASINOS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); SUICIDE (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (66%); IMMUNITY (66%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; CASINOS 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTERN PEQUOTS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT; NORTH STONINGTON (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



692 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Amtrak Has Its Faults, but It Has Its Fans, Too 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: ABOARD THE WOLVERINE, June 28 

 BODY:
The Amtrak station in Detroit could not be called spacious.
 "It's about as big as Denise Joyner's living room." 
 This assessment comes from Denise Joyner herself, who works for the state unemployment agency. "If people want to know how big it is," Ms. Joyner, 48, adds, "tell them to come by and see me." 
Ms. Joyner, traveling west for Taste of Chicago, a food and music festival, is one of the more than 300 people expected to ride the four-car Wolverine today. Other passengers will include 73 Boy Scouts and troop leaders boarding in Ann Arbor, a 20-member boys choir from Battle Creek with 26 parents and chaperons, and in Detroit, the 43-member Journey Travel club. 
Still, Amtrak is on the ropes and hoping for a long-term lifeline. An agreement with the Bush administration this week averted an immediate shutdown and could carry Amtrak to the beginning of the fiscal year -- Oct. 1 -- if Congress provides some money. 
If the railroad collapsed, it would be missed by many of the 300,000 passengers who each year ride the three trains that run through Detroit to Chicago. Most are leisure travelers -- only 15 percent travel for business -- and most prefer the space of the train to a bus and the inconvenience of flying or driving.
"It's one of our more popular corridor trains in the Midwest," said Howard Riefs, a spokesman for Amtrak. 
But popularity does not mean profitability. Despite the passengers, the Wolverine, the Lake Cities and the Twilight Express all operate at a loss. One of the reasons, Mr. Riefs says, is that Michigan is the only state outside the Northeast where Amtrak owns and pays to maintain the tracks. 
Amtrak would do better if this were not car country. 
"Obviously we're home to the Big Three, we're a very auto-reliant state," said Susan Schafer, a spokeswoman for Gov. John Engler.
Detroit's station is near an old car wash and the former General Motors headquarters. A mute television plays aerobics in one corner while travelers wait for the train.
"It's going to be a real hectic day," said Henry Lenoir, 51, who runs the Corridor Cafe, the train's closet-sized feeding station. "You got 300 against one!"
"Actually," said Mr. Lenoir's 10-year-old son, Justin, "two."
Mr. Lenoir -- who is constantly firing information at people but almost never looks beyond the shrink-wrapped sandwiches, bottled water and bagels -- raises his eyes with the slightest bemusement. His son, oblivious, explains that he helps get the ice and refill ketchup and mustard in counter boxes, though further observation indicates he spends much time trying out card tricks. 
From previous rides, Jeff Neracher, 35, a bartender from Royal Oak, a suburb, knows Mr. Lenoir as the man with the uncanny ability to know what eight people want simultaneously. 
"If they had the money to upgrade the tracks and make it faster, this would be a lot more popular," Mr. Neracher said, calculating that taking the train adds 90 minutes to what would be a four-and-a-half hour drive to Chicago. 
Nearby, Evelyn Stephens, 70, sits in a white shawl with a menu on the seat beside her. Ms. Stephens takes the train a dozen times a year, mostly to see her daughter in Battle Creek, about a two-and-a-half-hour train ride from Detroit. 
"I travel so much, I'm on a mailing list," she said. "I've been to Battle Creek, Chicago, Las Vegas, California."
She took her first ride as a teenager. Same route. "I was old enough to buy my own ticket," she said. "It was a big deal. My sister and I went. Then after that, we went all the time because we liked eating in the dining car."
Women make up 63 percent of the riders on the Lake Cities and the Wolverine, which start in Pontiac. Almost 40 percent of the riders are 18 to 34 years old, and 13 percent are retirees. Ann Arbor, home to the University of Michigan, is the state's busiest stop, but its traffic is less than a tenth of Chicago's. In Michigan, Amtrak employs 164 residents and pays them $7.7 million, compared with 2,249 Illinois employees who make $95.2 million. 
It is near 9 a.m. when the train reaches Ann Arbor. Boy Scouts board. After Chicago, they head to Denver for a detour at Pikes Peak and then a bus to Philmont Scout Ranch, in New Mexico. 
"My cost to Amtrak is about $14,000," explains Dick Northrup, 47, a state trooper and leader of the scout group. "It would have cost us $33,000 for two chartered buses." 
This is a good thing. With the buses, Mr. Northrup said, they could not use the toilets. Besides the smell they would need the space for packs and sleeping bags. 
"There's no way to keep these kids sane on a bus," he said. 
At 10:30 a.m., Monique Johnson, 43, is waiting in Battle Creek. She says she makes her business trips by rail because the air on planes aggravates her asthma. 
"I don't do buses because they stop in too many nooks and crannies," she said. "I have time, but not that much time."
The train is approaching Battle Creek. The line at the cafe car is 17 deep, thick with Boy Scouts. Justin is showing one his card tricks. His father is out of bagels, roast beef sandwiches and quiche. It says so on an upended cardboard box. 
Dawn Swartz, a violin teacher traveling with her 5-year-old son, Max, hopes Amtrak survives.
"How could you live in America and not have trains?" Ms. Swartz asks, binoculars dangling from her neck for emergency bird watching while Max presses his face against the window. 
"My parents brought me up taking trains, just to give us the experience of it," she said. "All those years growing up, I just waited for the next train ride. I couldn't wait to have a child so I could take him on the train."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry Lenoir, left, attended to customers during a "hectic day" at the Corridor Cafe on the Wolverine train from Pontiac, Mich., to Chicago.; Max Uitti-Swartz, 5, enjoyed the view from the Wolverine. (Photographs by Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); MUSIC (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%) RAILROADS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) DETROIT (MICH); CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



693 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Intentions Are Clear For Teams In Colon Deal

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The Montreal Expos may be nearing their end, but they aren't going meekly. The Cleveland Indians, on the other hand, have reached a crossroads, and they are starting over. The combination has produced one of the most stunning trades in years.
 Bartolo Colon, the Indians' No. 1 pitcher, has moved to Montreal, and two, perhaps three, of the Expos' best minor league prospects have switched to the Cleveland organization because Omar Minaya, the Expos' general manager, acted boldly and aggressively and Mark Shapiro, his Indians counterpart, acted resolutely and fearlessly. 
 Each team sent its own signal in the deal Thursday. The Indians have faced reality and given up for this season -- and next, if not the next two -- while the Expos have pronounced themselves in the National League East race for the duration. 
The Indians' decision to trade their 10-game winner ends an era in which they won the American League Central championship six of seven seasons, a period of prosperity after a 40-year famine. The trade has puzzled some, angered others, and prompted suggestions that the Indians are downsizing to save money.
Not so, said Shapiro, a first-year general manager. He said the Indians' brain trust concluded around mid-May that the team would not be good enough to contend for another division crown. His attempt to combine contending with rebuilding was not working.
"We began considering our alternatives," Shapiro said. "We could either add players or trade players. We felt the picture was too bleak this year to win and it could be worse next year. So we decided we would trade and try to build another championship team."
The Indians are not the first team, even in recent years, to come to such a conclusion and deplete itself midstream. The Chicago White Sox did it at the trading deadline, July 31, in 1997, when they were only three games out of first, sending two of their starting pitchers and their closer to San Francisco for six players, two of whom have taken turns as their closer. The White Sox won the division title in 2000 but did not build a perennial contender.
Now that the Indians have taken the first step in trading Colon, other baseball executives are waiting to see what other moves they might make. First baseman Jim Thome and shortstop Omar Vizquel are the subjects of most speculation, but both, Shapiro pointed out without divulging his plans, have veto power over trades.
"I'll meet with every veteran player to tell them what we're doing," Shapiro said.
He didn't say it, but he presumably meant he will tell the veterans that if they want to remain through the rebuilding process, he won't try to trade them. If they don't want to stay, prepare the consent form.
It's a risky step for the Indians, who under John Hart, Shapiro's predecessor, built a perennial division champion. The Indians' strength was in identifying the right young players and signing them early to multi-year contracts. They pioneered the practice, and it worked better for them than for any team.
Now Shapiro will undertake the task a second time. After the trade, he said, "Now I can start constructing a path toward another championship."
The Expos present an entirely different story. For years, they have been the team that has traded a host of premium players or willingly lost them as free agents. Pedro Martinez, Larry Walker, Moises Alou and John Wetteland are prime examples.
For the Expos to turn around now and acquire Colon is a staggering development. A dozen or so teams had at least some interest in pursuing Colon if the Indians made him available, and the Expos got him.
"A month ago," Minaya said, "I told myself, 'Just because we're the Expos doesn't mean we can't compete for these players.' When you have a chance to get a young pitcher like Bartolo Colon, I'm not going to pass this up."
Minaya and the Expos are in a peculiar position. Though it is not a fait accompli, the Expos are No. 1 on Commissioner Bud Selig's hit list. Owned by Major League Baseball, they had been expected to play out the season and learn their fate at the end. But Minaya and Manager Frank Robinson challenged their players to play to win.
The players responded. The Expos began play yesterday in second place, ahead of the Mets, six and a half games behind the Atlanta Braves. They were four games behind Arizona among the wild-card wannabes. The Indians were seven games behind division-leading Minnesota. They saw the glass half empty; the Expos viewed it as half full.
"About mid-May, we studied all of the organizations and concluded that Montreal had the best young players who could be ready to help us in the next 12 months," Shapiro said. "We talked to all of the contenders and some teams that could be contenders next year, but we felt Montreal had the best fit."
Minaya had similar thoughts.
"About three weeks ago we had a small conversation," he related on the night of the trade. "I said, 'Keep me in mind.' We talked about different names. It kept building and building. I told Mark this week: 'If we're going to do this, let's do it this week. The longer this goes on the harder it will be for me to do this.' If we waited for the 31st, we might not be around the 31st. We could be 10, 12 games back and not be a player. If I waited to the 31st, there also would be more competition."
Brandon Phillips had been the sticking point. A 21-year-old shortstop considered by scouts to be in the mold of Derek Jeter or Nomar Garciaparra, Phillips was the Expos' No. 1 prospect. "I didn't want to give him up," Minaya said. "I sat on him for a while. But the more I thought about it, the more I realized it was hard for me to pass up Colon. He's 29."
Minaya called Shapiro last Sunday morning. "I'm ready to cross this bridge," he told him. "Are you ready to cross my bridge?"
Shapiro wanted a player from the major league roster along with Phillips and Cliff Lee, a left-handed pitcher. Neither general manager identified the player, but he was Brad Wilkerson, the Expos' rookie center fielder. "We realized they're trying to win this year and they couldn't do it," Shapiro said. He agreed to take Grady Sizemore, a minor league outfielder and another top prospect, instead of Wilkerson.
Before the trade could be consummated, there was another matter that had to be dealt with. Colon has a $4.8 million salary this year. The Expos, with a $39 million payroll, next to lowest in the majors, could not add payroll. The Indians would have to take a player with a similar salary. Shapiro agreed to take Lee Stevens, a veteran first baseman, who was struggling to hit .200 this season. His salary was $4 million.
Since it was close to the midpoint of the season, each team would owe about half of each player's salary. To make up the difference, the Indians agreed to give the Expos $400,000. 
Shapiro had talked with other general managers about Colon, including Steve Phillips of the Mets and Brian Cashman of the Yankees, but no other team was willing to offer a comparable package.
"They needed to get their socks knocked off," Steve Phillips said. "We didn't think we had the right fit. A commensurate deal with our club would have been Jose Reyes, Justin Huber and Aaron Heilman," he added, naming three of the Mets' top prospects, shortstop, catcher and pitcher, respectively. "I couldn't do that deal."
An executive of another club said Oakland had offered first baseman Carlos Pena and second baseman Esteban German, but the package fell short of Montreal's threesome. Boston was another team that tried for Colon, the executive said, but they couldn't match Brandon Phillips. "We played, but we couldn't make the economics work," Jim Bowden of Cincinnati said, meaning he didn't have a Lee Stevens to deal.
Bowden applauded the deal for both sides, but an executive of another club, speaking on condition of anonymity, questioned the Expos' motives in trading away such prospects. The Expos could give up their best prospects, the executive suggested, because they very likely don't have a future.
Minaya rejected the criticism. "What do teams do when they're at the trading deadline?" he said. "Who do you give up, the old guys?"
Steve Phillips, among others, said the trade didn't bother him. "I'd do it if I were him, and so would everybody else," he said.
John Schuerholz of Atlanta said a deal for a pitcher like Colon was always going to cost dearly. "It's an expensive proposition we deal with these days to acquire a quality player to put you over the hump," he said.
Cashman said he had no problem with the Expos' deal. "Situations are different," he said. "In New York the future is now all the time. In Cleveland the future was always now for the last 10 years. Now the future is the future. In Montreal's case, the future wasn't always now. Now the shoe is on the other foot."
And Bartolo Colon is in Montreal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bartolo Colon, a stalwart for the Indians when they were regularly winning division titles, is now a part of the Expos' push for the playoffs. (Reuters)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%) BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES; TRADES (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%) CLEVELAND INDIANS; MONTREAL EXPOS 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; COLON, BARTOLO 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) QUEBEC, CANADA (93%); OHIO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



694 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: It Now Costs 3 Cents More to Mail a First-Class Letter 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
The cost of sending a first-class letter will rise on Sunday by 3 cents, to 37 cents, as part of a broad postage increase. A postcard will cost 23 cents to mail, or 2 cents more. 
 The independent Postal Rate Commission approved the changes in domestic postage in March. 
 Postal officials say the increases are intended to help the financially struggling service recover from the economic downturn, declining business and hundreds of millions of dollars in expenses incurred after the September terrorist attacks and the discovery of anthrax in the mail.
Postmaster General John E. Potter has said the service will not increase rates again before 2004. The previous increase in first-class stamps was 1 cent in January 2001, to 34 cents.
The service lost about $1.7 billion last year, officials say, and it could lose as much this year. It has cut about 30,000 jobs in two years and halted new construction.
In April, Mr. Potter sent Congress a plan for overhauling the service, including more autonomy to consolidate facilities, phase in rate increases and reduce six-day delivery. The service also proposed that it become a "commercial government enterprise," with the flexibility and structure of a private business.
Although the service receives no tax money, it works under guidelines set by Congress, and changes are subject to Congressional approval. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL RATES (93%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POSTAL SERVICE (76%); ANTHRAX (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) POSTAL SERVICE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



695 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: As the Sea Swallows, the Islanders Hang On 

BYLINE:  By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: ISLE DE JEAN CHARLES, La., June 25 

 BODY:
Paul Terry Dardar's mobile home perches on stilts eight feet high. He has never trusted land.
 "I was raised in the water, and my daddy was raised in the water, and my granddaddy -- well, I don't know if I had a granddaddy, but he was probably raised in the water," said Mr. Dardar, a fisherman and one of about 230 people who live on this tiny island amid the marshes and bays of southern Louisiana. 
 "My daddy died in his boat," he said. "Died happy. The water's not done me no harm. Catch a fish, catch a crab. Done me good." 
The water, he said, is a permanent thing.
It is the land that is temporary.
"Ain't much of it left," he said.
Isle de Jean Charles is being swallowed by the water that surrounds it. A ridge of dry ground that rises just a few feet above the brackish water of Terrebonne Parish, it is slowly sinking -- along with the rest of coastal Louisiana -- into the Gulf of Mexico. The people who live here, most of them poor, have watched it shrink year by year, seeing gardens, baseball sandlots and backyards vanish and shade trees wither into gray stumps from the infusion of saltwater.
About all that is left is a single street lined with small houses and mobile homes, and people who measure the land not in lots or acres, but feet and inches.
The residents, Biloxi-Chitimacha-Choctaw Indians whose ancestors first bought land here in 1876, say the land seems to dwindle on every receding tide, and is only about a fourth the size it was when its oldest residents were children.
"We're washing away," said Pierre Naquin, a retired tugboat captain whose family has lived on the island for 126 years.
Like the other people here, his accent is Cajun, more music than language, and as he talks about life here it sounds like a sad, sweet song.
The island is just a speck on a coastline that has had its protective marshes eaten away by encroaching saltwater, a result of levees, canals and other coastal constructions that altered the natural flow of water that trickles south from the Mississippi.
Unable to rebuild itself naturally with silt from that great river, much of the coastline is sinking, and the denuded marshes, a natural buffer to hurricanes, have left the state more vulnerable than ever to a catastrophic storm.
But few places in Louisiana are so at risk as the Isle de Jean Charles. Federal officials, who are planning a huge hurricane levee to protect several towns here, will not even try to save this island.
The proposed hurricane levee, which would stand as high as 14 feet and stretch more than 70 miles through Lafourche and Terrebonne parishes, would be built to the north of the Isle de Jean Charles, leaving it unprotected.
"They're just going to let it get us," said Mr. Naquin, 61.
A report by the Army Corps of Engineers said that the levee would cost about $680 million and could be completed no sooner than 2020. Carolyn Earle, a senior project manager with the corps, said extending that levee to include the Isle de Jean Charles would cost $100 million more.
"We were unable to economically justify including Isle de Jean Charles in that plan," Ms. Earle said.
Instead, the report suggests relocating the people of the island -- at a cost of $8 million -- to someplace behind that proposed levee. But in a meeting of the Army corps and residents this month, most people said they would rather live ankle-deep in muck than abandon a place they have lived for generations.
"We can't force anybody to relocate," Ms. Earle said.
To an outsider, it might not seem much worth saving. Of the some 60 houses that cluster around the single road, many are water-damaged and some are abandoned, their doors left open, windows broken. An engine block rusts in a ditch, a fishing boat sails in the weeds. In one yard, now covered with water, a tire swing hangs from a dying tree. Only the wind pushes it now.
Children walk up the only street, walk down it, then repeat the process. There is little else for them to do, say the people here. The population has gradually gotten older, tribal elders say. There is little reason for young people to stay on an island where the future, like the ground, is so limited. 
Once, small fields of bean, squash, corn and tomatoes -- even small pastures for dairy cows -- lay behind the houses, said Mr. Naquin. Now, what little spare ground is left is laced with salt, unfit to plant.
Construction of several pipelines around the island and the cutting of nearby canals to service oil and gas vessels have broken up the surrounding marsh and accelerated the erosion. The island is down to one road about two miles long, and less than 100 usable acres.
But perhaps the weakest link to the island's future is the road that connects it to the outside world. The road, really a thin causeway, vanishes underwater in storms. At high tide, water laps at the edge of the asphalt, making it seem as if the road is paved on the water itself.
Once, it ran across marsh and even dry ground. Now, the gulf has rushed in to bury the land, and has all but claimed the road itself.
Why would anyone insist on staying, in such a tenuous place?
"I get to hear the wind blow," said Chris Brunet, who serves on the community council.
The island is neither a federally protected reservation nor an incorporated city. Albert Naquin, Pierre Naquin's brother, is the chief of the island, a title passed down from elder to elder for more than 100 years. He has compared the government's proposal to exclude the island from the hurricane levee's protection to the Trail of Tears, the government's removal of the Cherokee from their homes in the Southeastern United States in the late 1830's. American soldiers led the Cherokee on a forced march to Oklahoma.
By leaving the people outside the levee's protection, the government is saying that the lives of the people here do not hold the same value as others, the chief said.
Some of the people here are shrimpers and fishermen, some are on federal assistance, and some drive across the causeway to blue-collar jobs in the parish. "They don't need much land," said the chief. "What they have won't last much longer." But the older residents can live out their lives here on the shrinking ground, he said, unless a hurricane devastates the island.
Moving the people will only force them to fight the old battles of poverty in a strange place, the people here say.
"This is the best they'll ever have," said Chief Naquin.
The possibility of a catastrophic hurricane has been on the minds of residents here, and the New Orleans newspaper, The Times-Picayune, has devoted several days of coverage to the causes and the consequences.
Mr. Brunet said it was incorrect to predict the death of the island. The local levee board has proposed building a smaller levee that will protect the island from tidal surges. It would not offer significant resistance to a hurricane, but the smaller levee would slow erosion on the island.
"We still got something good," Mr. Brunet said.
The bayous and marshes and open water are still a haven for fish and shrimp and crabs, although the saltwater intrusion is changing the ecology of the coast. Sport fishermen pull redfish and drum from the water, and white plastic Purex and Chlorox bottles bob in the shallows, each one tied to a crab trap that rests on the bottom.
Sarah Dardar lives in a small wooden house. Water licks against the back of it. It is the only home she has ever had, or wants.
"If we decide to stay until the water washes us away, so be it," she said. She says she does not have any friends here. "Just family," she said. That is almost everybody.
Others have given up. Ray Hendon, who recently moved away, said he was getting tired of walking in the water, and driving in it when he went to work across the often-flooded causeway. The saltwater is hard on a car. "Ate up my Firenza," he said.
Others say they will be here forever, even after the last scrap of land is flooded over.
"That's why I got the damn boat," said Paul Terry Dardar, the fisherman. 
He does not even need dry land for a grave.
"Let the fishes eat," he said. "I ain't worried, me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Isle de Jean Charles, La., Chris, left, and Sierre Pellegrim and Tamara Dardar under a trailer elevated to escape the encroaching gulf. (Jonathan Cohen for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Isle de Jean Charles, which is slowly sinking into the Gulf of Mexico, has been reduced to two miles in length and 100 usable acres in Louisiana.; Albert Naquin is chief of the island, and his family has lived there for generations. Mr. Naquin wants the government to protect it with a levee. (Photographs by Jonathan Cohen for The New York Times)(pg. 18) Map of Louisiana highlighting Isle de Jean Charles: Isle de Jean Charles is sinking, but a planned levee would bypass it. (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RIVERS (87%); WEATHER (84%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EROSION (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); BASEBALL (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%) FLOODS; BILOXI-CHITIMACHA-CHOCTAW INDIANS; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; COAST EROSION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%)

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) LOUISIANA; ISLE DE JEAN CHARLES (LA); GULF OF MEXICO; MISSISSIPPI RIVER

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



696 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Idea of Fighting Fire With Fire Wins Converts 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: DECKERS, Colo., June 28 

 BODY:
It was not an easy sell when the Forest Service came to people living among the crowded trees of the Rockies last summer and said it wanted to set the woods on fire. What the men in green had in mind was not just a little burn, but a big blaze, 8,000 acres of national forest land bordering some very expensive new houses. 
 Homeowners were incensed. Suburban communities said the smoke would hurt people's health. Colorado politicians, from the governor to legislators, tried to stop it and other planned fires, citing fears of flames getting out of control. 
 But this week, the biggest wildfire in Colorado history, the Hayman fire, dropped dead in its tracks when it met the boundary of the fire set deliberately by the Forest Service last year. 
"That would scare anyone to death when the government says, 'I'm here to burn down the forest, trust me,' " said Bob Foster, who owns the Lost Valley Guest Ranch near here, surrounded by Pike National Forest. "I have a little different take on it now," Mr. Foster said, crediting the controlled burn of last year with helping to save his ranch. 
Convincing people in the West that the only way to save the forest around them is to let the government burn it is perhaps the biggest challenge facing the Forest Service as it tries to reverse a century-old policy of fighting every fire.
Western politicians question the government's ability to control burns with surgical skill, citing a fire in New Mexico that was set by the National Park Service near Los Alamos but got out of control and destroyed more than 200 homes two years ago. 
They also say that there are less risky ways to make forests safe, like logging, but that environmentalists have obstructed government efforts to thin trees. Gov. Jane Dee Hull of Arizona said it was "policies from the East Coast" that kept the Forest Service from pruning overgrown forests. Gov. Judy Martz of Montana said environmental groups "played a great role in the fires," by blocking some efforts to log trees. 
But this summer's blazes show that controlled burns can be crucial in fire prevention. Forest Service officials note that these intentional blazes -- one in Colorado and the other in Arizona -- almost did not happen because of opposition from homeowners and politicians. 
The Polhemus burn, which edged up to this little town on the South Platte River, 50 miles from Denver, is an example of a government-set fire that worked, the Forest Service said. Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado imposed a summer-long moratorium on planned burns last year, but lifted it in time for the Polhemus burn in October. Governor Owens had said he feared a deliberate fire would get out of control and that the smoke would harm air quality.
It is likely that the blaze saved hundreds of homes this month, Forest Service officials said. Even firefighters were surprised at its effectiveness in stopping the Hayman, which consumed 137,000 acres and destroyed 133 homes.
"The fire was racing through here with great intensity but when it hit this controlled burn area, it just laid down and died," said Buck Nelson, a Smokejumper supervisor. 
Had the fire jumped a ridge to the east, it could have hit thousands of homes.
As Mr. Nelson and other Forest Service officials walked the boundary of the Hayman fire and the planned burn, they were struck by how well the line held. A cluster of newer homes, surrounded by thick trees, in a village called Rainbow Falls was spared. 
On one side, the Hayman burned the forest floor and blackened virtually every tree. On the other side, where the Polhemus burned last year, a wider-spaced stand of trees stood, barely touched. The controlled burn consumed brush, low-lying branches and smaller trees, taking away the fuel for a larger fire.
Still, in the coming fall, when the Forest Service tries to resume burns, it expects opposition again as memory the Hayman fire fades. The forests in this region have up to 10 times as many trees as they did when fires were allowed to burn a century ago, according to a 1999 federal government report. 
"It's not like there's been an overwhelming change of heart," said Alan Barbian of the Forest Service. 
Bruce Beardsley, who was evacuated from his 4,800-square foot home at the southern edge of the Hayman fire, is taking a wait-and-see attitude.
"Controlled burns, if controlled, are probably a good thing," said Mr. Beardsley, who is retired and has two homes in Colorado. "But stupidity sometimes overwhelms reason."
Homeowners in Arizona have expressed similar reservations, though the Forest Service believes a small, planned burn near Show Low from several years ago was an important firebreak this week. 
"There's been a lot of opposition," said Rob Emmett, the co-city manager of Show Low, which was evacuated as the biggest fire in Arizona history raced toward it last week. 
Near Heber-Overgaard, a community now threatened by wildfire, the Forest Service had planned to burn 20,000 acres, after two years of contentious public hearings, but it was destroyed by last week's wildfire.
Complaints from just a handful of homeowners about thick smoke can shut down a controlled fire, even after it has started, said Kate Klein, a forest ranger in Arizona. 
In recent days, some of the political leaders in the West have backed off statements blaming environmentalists for obstructing Forest Service plans to thin and burn. 
"The governor would agree that homeowners play a big role in preventing fires, and there is more than enough blame to go around," said Francie Noyes, a spokeswoman for Governor Hull of Arizona. 
Colorado opposed controlled burns last year because of air quality and safety concerns, said Sean Duffy, a spokesman for Governor Owens. "The governor's view is that prescribed burns have a place," Mr. Duffy said. "But you need to be extremely cautious."
After becoming a target, environmental groups have pointed to a General Accounting Office report that found that of 1,671 fuel-reduction projects in fiscal year 2001, only one percent were appealed, and none had been litigated. 
"They're trying to turn the environmental community into a scapegoat," said Bruce Driver, executive director of the Land and Water Fund of the Rockies. 
Mr. Driver's group opposed some plans to thin trees in a roadless area in the heart of the South Platte watershed. Those objections were dropped when the Forest Service modified the plan. The Forest Service had yet to begin work on the thinning project when the Hayman fire came through this month. 
Mark Rey, who oversees the Forest Service for the Bush administration, said the General Accounting Office report did not tell the whole story of how much time and energy the government has to spend responding to environmental challenges. Mr. Rey has ordered a new study, which will most likely be completed in the fall, he said. 
Money to burn and thin forests here and elsewhere in the West is part of the National Fire Plan. Congress has financed about $2 billion for the project, and it has the strong support of the Republican-dominated Western Governors Conference. 
But in many places of the West -- either because the terrain is too rugged, or the trees too thin to make logging economically viable -- burning is the only way to reduce the density of small, dry trees and brush, foresters say. 
As the firefighters withdraw from this valley, some people remain skeptical that the government can help them. Outside a home lost to fire, where discarded tires gave further fuel to the Hayman fire, a sign remains: "No Trespassing -- and this applies to government agents acting under color of law."
But a more dominant sentiment is expressed in the hundreds of hand-painted signs at homes that border the national forest, thanking firefighters and calling them heroes.
"This is by far, the biggest outpouring of appreciation I've ever seen on a fire," said Mr. Nelson, the Smokejumper. "People are cheering us. Asking us if they can buy us dinner. It makes you feel good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trees are charred around this house in Pine Valley, Colo. A controlled burn set in the area last fall is credited with saving hundreds of homes. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FIRES (89%); ARSON (89%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (72%); SUBURBS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%) FIRES AND FIREMEN; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (US) 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) COLORADO; WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



697 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Small-Business Grants Are Called Too Restrictive 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
A program that gives money to small businesses to stay in Lower Manhattan or move there has attracted 117 applications and given 80 grants since it opened for business more than three months ago, leading critics to say the numbers are too low and the program's rules are too restrictive.
 The program has given $6 million in grants out of the total $291 million in federal money it has, although almost two-thirds of that total has not been available until recent weeks, officials say. 
 Under the rules, the aid is available only to companies with 10 to 200 workers whose leases expire between Sept. 11, 2001, and Dec. 31, 2004, and who have signed new or renewal leases downtown that run for five years or more. The program's critics say the low number of applications and grants since the program started taking applications on March 11 proves that the rules shut out deserving companies. 
New York State economic development officials, who administer the aid in coordination with the city, defend the program's record, but say they have asked the federal government to loosen some restrictions. 
They also note that the program has been open for only three and a half months and that it is intended to keep businesses downtown, not to give money to those who suffered economic damage in the attack.
The program, called the Small Firm Attraction and Retention Grants, gives up to $5,000 per employee to businesses that stay in Lower Manhattan or move there.
Michael Marr, a spokesman for the Empire State Development Corporation, said that as of June 20, 11 applications were pending and 26 had been rejected, most of them because of the rules that the critics have complained about.
Kevin Curnin, who is a legal adviser to From the Ground Up, an advocacy group of downtown business owners, said of the application total, "When you compare that number with the number of small businesses in Lower Manhattan, it does sound incredibly small, but I think there are some built-in obstacles in the program that may contribute to the low turnout."
Mr. Marr said: "The purpose of the program is to bring workers downtown who aren't already there, or to provide downtown companies whose leases are expiring an incentive to remain downtown. If people need immediate dollars, they can apply to the World Trade Center Recovery Grant Program."
It is hard to say how many businesses are eligible for the retention and attraction grants. The grants are intended largely for companies that renew leases in the area south of Canal Street or that move there. From the Ground Up said a report it commissioned in March found 12,800 small businesses south of Canal Street. It defined small businesses as those with 50 or fewer employees. 
One of the toughest problems for downtown businesses is trying to replace the customer base. The attack on the World Trade Center is widely estimated to have removed 100,000 workers from Lower Manhattan. While some have returned, tens of thousands have not. Many businesses are thought to have simply closed or moved, so they are not around to apply for retention aid. Small businesses generally have fewer resources to tide them over in tough times than big ones do.
Despite criticism of the retention program, Mr. Marr of the state development corporation said the aid programs were good. "In order to have a complete picture, you need to look at all the programs we operate. We've distributed over 7,200 checks totaling more than $200 million in the World Trade Center Business Recovery Grant Program," which compensates for economic damage from the attack and covers companies with up to 500 employees, Mr. Marr said.
Mr. Marr's agency and critics of the attraction and retention program disagree on whether 117 applications are too few at this stage; applications cannot be submitted until a lease is signed and in effect. But both sides agree that one proposed rule change could hasten the pace of applications. 
That change would open the program to businesses with one to nine employees. So far, it has been open to companies with 10 to 200 workers, a restriction Mr. Marr said had been justified by the amount of money initially allotted to the program, $105 million. He said that additional money authorized last month had raised the amount available to $291 million.
The program provides payments of $3,500 to $5,000 per employee to businesses with new or renewal leases in the area from the south side of Canal Street to the Battery, with the higher amount going to the companies closest to the trade center site. A new or renewed lease must be signed no later than Dec. 31, 2004.
While the focus of the program is on Lower Manhattan, it also seeks to induce small businesses to at least remain in New York City, by providing grants to companies leaving some areas below Canal Street if they move elsewhere in the city. 
The program calls for payments to be made in two installments, Mr. Marr said: half within a month after the new or renewed lease takes effect, and half 18 months later.
State officials say they expect approval for the proposed changes within weeks from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, which provides the program's money. 
Besides changing the rules on the number of employees, the state has proposed exempting businesses closest to the trade center site from the requirement that a current lease expire no later than Dec. 31, 2004. 
Mr. Marr said this waiver was intended to induce certain businesses to stay in the city, including those that have leases expiring later, those that were in buildings that are still closed, and those that are seeking permanent new homes. But otherwise the December 2004 lease-expiration deadline will remain, he said, to encourage commitments in the next two and half years. 
Such reasoning, however, does not sit well with Mildred Center, the principal of Centerdesign, which is at 160 Broadway and does graphic design work for financial firms in the area. Her current lease expires in April 2005, just four months after the deadline. Her company is outside the waiver area. If the rules were different, her company, with three employees, would qualify for more than $10,000 when renewing its lease. That, she said, "would be helpful" to a company still doing only 20 percent of the business it did before Sept. 11. 
For Bob Van Dyke, who operates a recording studio on Stone Street with one employee, the big obstacle is the five-year term of a new or renewal lease. The longest renewal lease he could recently get from his landlord was three years, making him ineligible for $3,500. 
"It would have been $3,500 more than I have," he said, adding that his equipment had sustained $17,000 in damage from smoke and dust from the trade center's destruction.
Mr. Marr said the five-year minimum was needed "to use our limited resources" for companies committed to a "reasonable and not burdensome" stay in Lower Manhattan. Most other business owners complaining about the five-year rule said it required too long a commitment given their uncertain prospects. 
The retention program is also intended to induce small companies that leave Lower Manhattan at least to remain in New York City. 
For example, Fine Composition, which does typesetting and design work, qualified for $3,500 grants for each of its 22 employees -- a total of $77,000 -- when it moved to a Hudson Street building just north of Canal Street from a Greenwich Street building just south of Canal.
The $38,500 first installment, said Fine's president, Karie Durgin, "will pay down suppliers who I couldn't pay" after losing "about a third of our business," including several clients that were in the trade center.
Information about the program is available from a state aid center at 2 Rector Street and a city center at 140 William Street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karie Durgin is president of Fine Composition, which qualified for $77,000 in grants as incentive to stay in New York. (Michael Nagle/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); CITIES (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HIJACKING (70%); TERRORISM (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



698 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Johnny Can Read, but Well Enough to Vote?; 
Courts Grapple With How Much Knowledge Students Need as Citizens

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH and ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
For almost a decade, New York State has been involved in a legal battle over whether the state is paying its fair share toward New York City's vast and ailing public school system.
 In the course of years of motions, arguments and news conferences, the struggle largely appeared to the public to be a complex rhetorical war over money: how much the city's schools need, whether the suburbs were getting more per student, and who should pay to bring the city schools up to a higher standard. 
 But two recent rulings in the case, including one on Tuesday by a state appeals court, highlighted a more fundamental question underlying the dispute -- one more philosophical than financial; one involving the Constitution, not a calculator: what is the minimal obligation of government to educate its children?
New York is only one of more than two dozen states where courts have grappled with this issue, and some educators said they found the appeals court's ruling comparatively stingy. Reversing a lower court decision issued last year, the court ruled that schools were obligated by the state Constitution to do nothing more than prepare students for low-level jobs, for serving on a jury and for reading campaign literature -- the equivalent, the court suggested, of an eighth- or a ninth-grade education. 
"Defining an adequate education that minimally sounds like giving up," Gerald Graff, an education professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said of the ruling, by the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court for the First Department.
But others saw the ruling's narrowness as a gesture not of parsimony but of wisdom, a recognition that money is not necessarily the cure for an ailing system. 
"It's kind of a brave decision," said Clayton Gillette, a professor at New York University School of Law. "They're willing to say that dollars in does not necessarily equate with equality out, that there are other factors: poverty, immigration, labor contracts."
In its decision, the appeals court did not dispute that New York City schools are plagued by low-paid and undertrained teachers, large classes, antiquated books and deteriorated buildings.
But in reckoning with that sad state of affairs, they suggested that it was the court's job not to set an ideal -- or, as the judges called it, an "aspirational" standard -- but to determine what is a constitutional human right to education. New York City, however troubled its schools, met that standard, however limited the bar.
Barring a catastrophically low level of student achievement, the court suggested, it was up to politicians to make decisions about education and be voted out of office if citizens were unhappy with the judgments of the people they elected. The city's Board of Education is a functioning bureaucracy, the judges wrote, fully capable of solving the problems on its own. The judges even went so far as to allude to mayoral control of the system, which will take effect tomorrow, as a possible palliative for some of its ills.
The decision will be appealed by the coalition whose lawsuit led to the ruling, the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, and it is not yet clear whether the state will ultimately have to start imposing higher standards -- and paying for them.
Whatever the outcome, the ruling has exposed a perhaps underappreciated and intriguing debate about what is meant by the state's guarantee of a "sound, basic education" for all its children.
Those words, so familiar to New Yorkers, are not actually contained in the state Constitution, which says only that the state is required to provide "the maintenance and support of a system of free common schools wherein all the children of this state may be educated."
The phrase "sound, basic" was coined by the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, as an interpretation of what the state Constitution requires. That court also decreed in 1995 that schools must prepare students to "function productively as civic participants capable of voting and serving on a jury." 
The two courts that have ruled on the New York case have interpreted those words in varying ways. Both agreed that the requirement means more than just turning out people who can find their way to courthouses and voting booths.
But beyond that, they offered divergent views on what it means to "function productively" as a citizen.
In his January 2001 ruling, Justice Leland DeGrasse of State Supreme Court in Manhattan emphasized the difficult decisions citizenship can entail. "Jurors today," he wrote, "must determine questions of fact concerning DNA evidence, statistical analyses and convoluted financial fraud, to name only three topics." The state appealed his ruling.
Where Justice DeGrasse found that the city schools did not prepare students to meet that challenge, the appeals court disagreed, contending that "the skills required to enable a person to obtain employment, vote, and serve on a jury are imparted between grades eight and nine, a level of skill which plaintiffs do not dispute is being provided." Another question that drew lengthy discussions from both courts was the career options for which a "sound, basic education" should prepare students. Conceding that schools should not be required to prepare students for an "elite four-year college," Justice DeGrasse nonetheless ruled that students should be prepared for "competitive employment," meaning something more than "low-level jobs paying the minimum wage."
To the appeals court, that smacked of social engineering. Instead, a student should simply be provided "the ability to get a job, and support oneself, and thereby not be a charge on the public fisc," wrote Justice Alfred D. Lerner for the majority.
Courts in other states have been more willing than New York's to tackle the question of what states owe to their poorest communities, and to set a higher standard.
At what point, courts have asked, does the State Legislature have to make decisions that might go beyond the minimum constitutional requirement but that reflect deeper social values?
In New Jersey, it was a more expansive view of the state's obligation to its schoolchildren that drove the courts to order the state to equalize the difference in spending between school districts with wealthy property tax bases and those with poor ones.
In stark contrast with the New York appellate court, the New Jersey Supreme Court took the view that schools should be responsible for remedying educational deficits that might have their roots in larger social problems, like crime and poverty.
Legal scholars say that differences among court decisions have more to do with how willing courts are to become involved in making public policy than with interpreting any constitutional mandate.
The United States Constitution does not guarantee public education, and state constitutions, which do, contain language so bland that it is only minimally prescriptive.
"I'm not sure a lot has turned on the language of state constitutions," said Richard Briffault, a vice dean and professor at Columbia Law School. "Courts are wading into an area which is not their strong suit, but with the justification that there is a constitutional command to actually provide this service."
In New Jersey, for instance, the Constitution requires only "a thorough and efficient system of education," a far less radical proposition than the redistribution of property-tax wealth that has been imposed by the New Jersey courts to achieve equality among school districts. 
Several states offer more poetic language. The California Constitution requires the Legislature to "encourage by all suitable means the promotion of intellectual, scientific, moral and agricultural improvements."
North Carolina's Constitution says: "Religion, morality and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools, libraries and the means of education shall forever be encouraged."
In Florida, citizens have tried to pave the way for judicial intervention by shoring up the constitutional requirements. In 1998, voters approved a constitutional amendment that expanded Florida's guarantee of an "adequate" education to include an education that was "efficient, safe, secure and high quality."
The amendment was instigated by advocates who were contemplating a lawsuit, said Michael P. Griffith, a policy analyst for the Education Commission of the States, though the lawsuit has not yet been filed.
A 1989 Kentucky Supreme Court decision provided one of the most expansive definitions of what makes an adequate education. It required schools to fulfill seven educational goals, including grounding in the arts; the ability to make informed choices about economic, social and political systems; and preparation for advanced training in academic and vocational fields.
In the wake of the court decision, Kentucky overhauled its educational system, and test scores rose significantly. "It's considered something of a success story," Professor Briffault said.
The evolution in litigation has coincided with the rise of the educational standards movement, and many courts have used the high school graduation standards developed by their states as benchmarks for what school systems should provide. While it may seem to contradict its relatively low threshold of a sound, basic education, New York State is now phasing in tougher Regents tests in five subjects as part of its graduation standards, though it is not yet clear how much the state will be willing to pay to help implement them. 
It is too soon to tell whether New York will be forced to undertake changes similar to Kentucky's. Given the issue's political weight -- and the large amounts of money involved -- it was perhaps inevitable that the decision would fall to the state's highest court, which could begin hearing arguments on the city's school system as early as this fall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A basic education, as defined by a New York court, will prepare students to vote, to hold low-level jobs, and to serve on a jury, but not necessarily for anything more. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Chris Maynard); (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (83%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); VERDICTS (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); IMMIGRATION (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; STATES (US) 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (53%) WORTH, ROBERT F; HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



699 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
Seeking Solace And Advice For Ailing Back

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
I needed a role model to tell me to hang in there, suck it up, listen to Coach and stay with the program. Isn't that why we give them the big bucks, to inspire us? After six weeks, my back had decided to cut me a little slack, let me sleep through the night, at least every other night, let me walk a mile a day so long as I slept for two hours afterward. It was a glimmer. But I had lost two inches around my right thigh, the only real muscles I had, and I needed that role model to tell me that there was hope.
 "I am here to tell you there is hope," said Notah Begay III, the golfer. "Last year I was hitting 9, 10 on the pain meter, now it's 1 and 2. Same disk area as yours. I only qualified for 4 of 12 tournaments in 2001, and this year I didn't make the cut until last week when I finished 33rd in the Greater Hartford Open. I was definitely happy." 
 Notah Begay is 29, younger than my kids, but he is my new role model in sports. Bad backs bond. Last week, in the last paragraph of a column about steroids, I mentioned that I was recuperating from a herniated disk. More people wanted to talk about backs than about steroids. 
Dr. Gary Wadler, the establishment's go-to expert on drugs and sports, called to say he was flying to meetings and hearings despite unbearable back pain. This was his second episode; the first came after his car was broadsided by a bus. Pat Connolly, the coach and former Olympic athlete, called to say she was not calling to chastise me for describing her husband, Harold, in that steroids column as a shot-putter instead of a hammer-thrower (I said I had had a pain-pill moment) but to offer advice.
Last week, I called Begay, who is in Memphis for the St. Jude Classic, which he had won in 2000 when the PGA Tour was touting him as a hot newcomer. Like most athletes, he was more than willing to discuss his body in detail. He thinks there may be lessons in his back story, which began during his freshman year at Stanford, which he attended with Casey Martin and Tiger Woods. He was an all-American and graduated in 1995 with a degree in economics.
"In high school I was very fit," Begay said. "I played golf, basketball and soccer. But starting Stanford, I only played golf. Not much exercise except for a little intramural ball. I gained 20 pounds, none of it muscle. We carried our clubs. So now I was out of shape, I was twisting my spine, and I was carrying all that extra weight. I was young, so it was a gradual process of deterioration, and it didn't catch up to me for eight or nine years."
He began to feel a stiffness after a round of golf, and because the body compensates until it breaks down, the strain was in his hips and groin area. The pain was "manageable." As a PGA Tour rookie in 1999, he had access to physical therapists and chiropractors, who stretched him out and and gave him abdominal exercises.
His career was progressing. After an exceptional first year, winning two Tour events, he got better in 2000, winning two more, earning $1,819,323 and finishing in 20th place. He broke down that fall. While exercising with weights, he felt a twinge in his lower back. He knew he was in trouble. "When you use your body for a living," he said, "you know when the parts are not working."
A tear was diagnosed in the covering of the disk between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae of his lower back. He lost his range of motion. His income evaporated.
"Battling depression was the hardest part," he said. "I didn't want to leave the house. I just wanted to wallow in self-pity. No self-confidence. I felt like a big worthless pile of garbage. But one thing I'd learned at Stanford was to find an expert if you can't solve something yourself. I saw a therapist about the depression. I found a physical trainer."
Begay derived strength, he said, from a "defeat" he had battled back from a year before: an arrest, conviction and jail time for drunken driving. He had been depressed over that, too, "humiliated" by the news media and "embarrassed" in front of fans. 
As a Native American (half Navajo, one-quarter San Felipe and one-quarter Isleta), the grandson of a Marine code-talker in World War II, the first Notah Begay, he felt a particular responsibility. He said that counseling helped him understand that he wasn't an alcoholic but had "screwed up, made a severely bad judgment." He was able to "use it as a learning tool and grow."
Having saved his earnings helped enormously, too. "I didn't have to work," he said. "I could rest, and that was important in the healing. I didn't take any pain medication, even though I was in a lot of pain. I could just lie on the floor, find a position that gave me relief."
These days, he travels with a physical trainer, Chris Frankel, who guides him through daily exercises that concentrate on "firing the core muscles," especially of the lower abdomen. He has lost his 20 Stanford pounds. He lifts weights, rides a stationary bicycle, listens to his body carefully.
A few days ago in Memphis, while I took my first ride on a stationary bike, Begay twisted his spine violently, but yesterday he was tied for second, four strokes off the lead, through three rounds of the St. Jude Classic. 
Notah Begay's back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Notah Begay III's budding career on the PGA Tour was curtailed by a back injury. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); GOLF (89%); STEROIDS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (88%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); BASKETBALL (78%); ATHLETES (74%); SPORTS INJURIES (74%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SOCCER (73%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); OLYMPICS (66%) GOLF 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (53%) LIPSYTE, ROBERT; BEGAY, NOTAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (72%) TENNESSEE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



700 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: June 23-29: BUSINESS; 
THE HARDER THEY FALL

BYLINE:  By Simon Romero

 BODY:
 WorldCom, the nation's second-largest long-distance carrier, said that a random internal audit revealed more than $3.8 billion in expenses disguised as profits in 2001 and 2002, in what may be the largest accounting fraud ever. 
The S.E.C. filed fraud charges against the company, whose board fired its chief financial officer, Scott Sullivan, upon the discovery of the accounting strategy. In Washington, Republicans scrambled to contain the risk of damaged confidence in business and the economy, and Democrats stepped up efforts to spotlight corporate abuses. Simon Romero

GRAPHIC: Photo (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); ACCOUNTING (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); AUDITS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (84%); EXECUTIVES (83%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (83%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



701 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Stocks vs. Bonds: A Risk Scoreboard

BYLINE:  By ABBY SCHULTZ 

 BODY:
INVESTORS these days are painfully aware that stock prices can plunge as easily as they can soar. Still, many people have comforted themselves with a market truism: that in the long run, stocks outperform other asset classes. 
 A new study by Moody's Investors Service, however, notes a more sobering truth: that the stock market is very risky. It has been so volatile, in fact, that when swings in market prices are factored in, corporate bonds outperformed stocks on a risk-adjusted basis from Jan. 1, 1990 to the end of May this year. 
 "So many people are infatuated with the equity markets, but to earn that return you'd have to accept a lot of risk," said John Puchalla, a senior economist at Moody's. 
The study was based on the work of William F. Sharpe, a Nobel laureate and an emeritus professor of finance at Stanford, who developed a method to compare returns of asset classes on a risk-adjusted basis. 
The point of such findings, Professor Sharpe said in an interview, is not that bonds should be favored over stocks, but that portfolios should be diversified among asset classes and that investors should consider how the risk and return characteristics for one type of asset relate to those for others in an investment portfolio. 
"If you are looking at bonds and stocks as parts of a portfolio, what you need to figure out are the returns and risk and the correlation between them," said Professor Sharpe, who is also chairman of Financial Engines, a company that supplies technology for financial analysis to retirement plans and asset managers. 
The method of analyzing risk-adjusted return, known as the Sharpe ratio, is a fundamental of modern portfolio theory, an influential approach to investing. The theory was developed in part by Harry M. Markowitz, emeritus professor of finance at Baruch College of the City University of New York, and by Professor Sharpe, who were two of the three recipients of the Nobel in economic science in 1990. The theory holds that by investing in an array of asset classes, investors can maximize return for the risk they are willing to bear. It underlies the guidance provided today by most financial advisers. 
"Different major asset classes respond differently to world economic events," said Roger C. Gibson, an adviser in Pittsburgh. "As a result of that, they generate different patterns of return." By combining assets, like stocks and bonds, the ups and downs, or volatility, can be reduced for the overall portfolio, Mr. Gibson said. 
The Moody's analysis helps explain why bonds would have mitigated the wild swings in many portfolios in recent years. 
The Sharpe ratio, the basis of the study, is a mathematical formula involving terms that may be unfamiliar to many investors. Here is how it works: First, it takes into account the return that an investor can receive without taking any risk. The Moody's study used the average monthly returns of a 90-day Treasury bill -- considered a risk-free asset.
The risk-free return is then subtracted from the return of the asset being analyzed. The difference is called the excess return. To figure the Sharpe ratio, excess return is divided by the investment's standard deviation -- a statistical measure of volatility. 
The ratio describes how much return an investment is likely to provide for the risk of holding it. The higher the ratio, the more an investor is likely to be rewarded for taking on risk.
Someone who could bear the risk -- and remain fully invested in a diversified stock portfolio -- during the years in the Moody's study would have made more money than someone invested entirely in corporate bonds. The stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 index had an annualized total return of 12.2 percent from Jan. 1, 1990, through May 31, compared with 8.4 percent for bonds. 
The Sharpe ratio, however, emphasizes another part of the story. Mr. Puchalla calculated that the Sharpe ratio of the S.& P. 500 was 0.15 from Jan. 1, 1990, through May 31, while the ratio for investment-grade corporate bonds, based on returns estimated by Moody's, was 0.20. Taking risk into account, in other words, corporate bonds outperformed stocks.
A separate study, using even longer-term data, yielded similar results. On a risk-adjusted basis, using the Sharpe ratio, long-term corporate bonds outperformed stocks from 1926 through the end of May 2001, according to Ibbotson Associates, a research firm in Chicago.
Over shorter periods, a variety of asset classes may shine on a risk-adjusted basis. Taking risk into account, the S.& P. 500 did better than the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index from 1990 to 1999, for instance, as well as from 1980 to May this year, said Kurt Winkelmann, co-head of global investment strategies at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, which recently conducted research on the subject.
From 1990 to 1997, however, the asset class with the highest Sharpe ratio was high-yield bonds tracked by the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index, Mr. Winkelmann said.
None of the researchers, however, say the use of risk-adjusted returns should make investors abandon any one asset class and load up entirely on another.
In fact, to invest strictly by limiting risk would lead to a lopsided portfolio that is fitting only for an investor with a short time horizon, said Peter Di Teresa, senior analyst at Morningstar. Of all the mutual funds tracked by Morningstar, 7 of the 10 with the highest Sharpe ratios are short-term bond funds, Mr. Di Teresa said. The other three are a high-yield bond fund, a small-cap stock fund that uses options to reduce risk, and a real estate fund with a high income stream, according to Morningstar. Holding a group of these funds alone would not make much sense, he said. 
Instead of using one statistical measure to choose a portfolio, an investor should consider how much risk he is willing to take before assembling it. An investor with a shorter-term goal like paying for a child's college education would take on less risk than a young investor beginning to save in a retirement plan. 
"Once we pin down that risk level, then we can focus on the bond-equity split," Mr. Winkelmann of Goldman Sachs said. "From our view, portfolios should have a broader exposure to an array of asset classes."
In building a portfolio of various assets, investors should avoid those that are perfectly correlated, he said. This means their prices should not rise or fall in tandem. 
Stocks and bonds have a correlation of about 0.3 to 0.5 on a scale ranging from minus 1.0 to plus 1.0, Professor Sharpe said. "That means that more than not, good months for bonds are good months for stocks, but there are a whole lot of exceptions," he said. A basic, diversified portfolio should have a mix of about 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds; from there, the mix of stocks and bonds depends on the investor's risk tolerance, he added. 
MR. GIBSON, the financial adviser in Pittsburgh, counsels all his investors to buy some bonds, even if they have a long-term horizon and a high tolerance for risk. He tells them that bonds may reduce their long-term returns but that the stabilizing effects of bonds will make them less likely to sell if the stock market drops precipitously. If investors include bonds, he said, "They have greater staying power."
This argument is easier for many investors to accept after the stock market's performance in the last couple of years. In the 20 years ending in 1999, at the height of the bull market, stocks had experienced only two down years, 1981 and 1990, Mr. Gibson said. That was unusual. Data going back to 1926 shows that stocks fell in 3 of every 10 years, on average, he said. 
"I think part of the problem is people started to equate risk with return and thought it was an equal sign," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nobel laureate William F. Sharpe developed a method to compare returns of asset classes, adjusted for risk. Chart: "A Case for Bonds"Adjusted for risk, corporate bonds fared better than stocks from 1990 through May. On that basis, most of the top-rated mutual funds over the last three years were invested heavily in bonds.Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Deutsche Preservation Plus IncomeBonds as a share of total portfolio*: 87.6%3-year total return, annualized+: 6.30% Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Security Capital Preservation (Class A shares)Bonds as a share of total portfolio*: 90.63-year total return, annualized+: 5.80 Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Deutsche Preservation Plus InstitutionalBonds as a share of total portfolio*: 90.53-year total return, annualized+: 5.71 Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Fidelity Real Estate High IncomeBonds as a share of total portfolio*: 78.73-year total return, annualized+: 12.81 Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Turner Ultra Short Duration Fixed IncomeBonds as a share of total portfolio*: 86.93-year total return, annualized+: 5.78 Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Evergreen Adjustable Rate InstututionalBonds as a share of total portfolio*: 87.73-year total return, annualized+: 6.61 Top-rated mutual funds, ranked by risk ratio: Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income (Class A shares)Bonds as a share of total portfolio*: Not available3-year total return, annualized+: 14.03 *Based on latest available data+Through May Graph tracks ratio of risk-adjusted total returns for investment-grade corporate bonds and S.& P. 500 Index from 1993 through 2002. (Sources: Moody's Financial Services; Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); MATHEMATICS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: SCHULTZ, ABBY; SHARPE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



702 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2081 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Hurt by Slump,a Consulting Giant Looks Inward

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
LATE last summer, partners in the New York City offices of McKinsey & Company met to discuss whether to offer discounts to clients and, if so, how much.
 It was hardly a comfortable moment. McKinsey, the bluest of the blue-chip management consulting firms, has always charged clients a hefty premium on the theory that its people are just plain smarter than those of its competitors. Nevertheless, the partners decided to cut deals when necessary. They would not offer huge discounts but might agree to finish advisory projects in less time for the same price, by using more people, for example. 
 "We laid out some criteria for how we should discount, when we should discount," one said in a recent telephone interview. 
The fact that McKinsey -- whose advice can be half again as expensive as that of its peers -- felt compelled to cut prices is a sign of just how tough the environment has become for consultants.
After experiencing annual double-digit revenue growth in the late 1990's, management consultants are now suffering the aftereffects of the bursting of the technology stock bubble and the recession. The collapse of Enron made matters worse, especially for McKinsey, which had praised Enron in various internal publications as a company of the future. Like one of its wayward clients, the firm's costs have risen while business has declined. 
McKinsey declined to makes its executives available for questions, but interviews with nearly a dozen current and former McKinsey partners and associates -- most of whom did not want to be identified -- suggest that the much-vaunted firm is still trying to figure out how to cope. 
The firm has undertaken a broad review of how it advises clients, the kind of advice it provides and which clients it serves, said Andrew Giangola, a spokesman. "We historically, from time to time, have looked at how we serve clients," he said. "It's generally in response to changes in the market."
McKinsey partners like to say they are above the travails of their closest rivals -- firms like Bain & Company and the Boston Consulting Group -- and no one is suggesting that McKinsey faces a life-threatening crisis. But, said Tom Rodenhauser, president of Consulting Information Services in Keene, N.H., "there's a redefinition going on within McKinsey and other strategy firms, as to how they will be structured and perceived in the future." 
By early next year, when they choose a successor to their current leader, Rajat Gupta, McKinsey partners have to decide their direction, Mr. Rodenhauser added.
It has been decades since McKinsey last faced such a challenge. "It was back in 1971 and 1972, when McKinsey went through a period of rapid growth in Europe," one partner said. That forced partners to assess whether the firm had grown too much, opened too many offices and pursued too many of the wrong kind of client, this partner said -- the same sort of review the firm is starting now. The 1970's study prompted the firm to emphasize certain industries and to develop practices around financial services, retail and energy, for example.
McKinsey definitely grew rapidly in the late 1990's. As a private partnership, it does not release financial figures, and Mr. Gupta recently told employees that "overall revenues were flat last year" and partners' compensation fell, on average, by one-third, according to a McKinsey transcript obtained by The New York Times of a Webcast for consultants held early this year. According to Kennedy Information, a firm in Peterborough, N.H., that tracks the consulting industry, McKinsey had revenue of $3.3 billion last year, down slightly from $3.4 billion in 2000. By comparison, revenue at consulting firms over all -- including the big, technology-focused companies like Accenture and IBM Global Services -- grew a meager 2 percent last year.
IN personnel, McKinsey has more than doubled in size over the last several years even as many of its smart young consultants jumped to dot-coms and venture capital firms. It has 7,200 consultants, compared with 3,300 in 1994, when Mr. Gupta took over as managing director, according to Kennedy Information. 
The number of people leaving the firm voluntarily has plummeted, while the number of business school students accepting job offers has climbed. The firm's partners have decided to honor the offers, but to make fewer of them in the future. For about a year, the firm has had too many people and not enough work.
William Matassoni, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group who spent 18 years at McKinsey, leaving in 1999, said, "The consulting group grew too fast -- certainly B.C.G. did, certainly McKinsey did." 
In response to questions during the Webcast, Mr. Gupta said average utilization -- a measure of how busy McKinsey's consultants are -- fell 14 percentage points in 2001 from 2000 levels. In some places, said one associate who worked in an office outside New York, that meant the office was working at 40 percent of capacity, well below the 80 percent that other firms say is ideal.
Some firms have laid off consultants or deferred starting dates for new hires. Booz Allen Hamilton, for example, dismissed almost 9 percent of its consultants last year.
"We entered a U.S.-led global slowdown well before Sept. 11, and I would argue as far back as October 2000," said Daniel Lewis, who runs the commercial business at Booz Allen. "What happened in the past is, consulting would go down with the industry but would bounce back with helping clients." 
"That didn't happen this time," he said.
McKinsey says it has not laid off any of its employees for purely economic reasons, because to do so would not be consistent with the firm's meritocracy, according to a spokesman. But the firm has told people that they should move on, ostensibly because they lack merit -- 9 percent of associates and analysts were told that they had no future at McKinsey last fall, compared with 3 percent in the fall of 2000, Mr. Gupta told consultants during the Webcast.
The firm has continued to hire, although in smaller numbers, partners say, and its attrition rate continues to be close to 20 percent, with a greater proportion being told to leave than in recent years.
The increase stems from the resumption of standards ignored during the boom, Mr. Gupta told employees. "We were probably not subscribing fully to our values two or three years ago," he said. "I think that, inadvertently, we let our standards slip when there was such a high level of demand."
The process of easing people out of the firm, called "counseling out," was done through accelerated performance reviews, associates said. Some new hires were told to look for work elsewhere after as little as a year, one said; others spoke of evaluations every three months. 
But the slowdown has affected some parts of the firm more than others, and counseling out has occurred unevenly, affecting more people in McKinsey's offices in California than in places less sensitive to the decline of Internet and related companies, say associates who worked in those offices. 
Partners also disagree over how much power should be held by practice groups, which focus on a specific industry, relative to those who manage regional offices. Some younger partners believe that practice groups should have more authority, but senior partners who run offices are reluctant to cede their power to hire and fire.
The autonomy of office managers meant that harder-hit offices, like those in California and Washington, took more severe steps to rein in costs.
"You had these large swaths of the office that couldn't get work at all," said one associate who works on the West Coast. Like most people at McKinsey, he would not give his name, citing both a broad and stringent confidentiality agreement that the firm has and the importance of McKinsey's alumni network, which finds jobs for many employees in the industries they advise after they leave the firm.
To occupy people "on the beach" -- those not told to leave but without work -- McKinsey has assigned its associates (those with graduate degrees) and analysts (those with bachelor's degrees) to pro bono projects and to internal "knowledge development," which usually involves conducting or organizing research. Morale has suffered. 
Partners said offices in Germany and South Korea, for example, have continued to be busy. That has generated some resentment within the partnership: In the late 1990's, the firm grew nearly 16 percent a year in the United States, even as attrition rates rose to nearly 30 percent in some offices; in retrospect, some partners overseas have complained that they are subsidizing what was imprudent growth. 
One partner said Mr. Gupta "made a lot of decisions about how to promote people, how to advance people, how to compensate people that proved to be just wrong."
DURING the dot-com boom, many consulting firms took equity in clients instead of cash payments, some firms planned to go public with a portion of the equity going to employees, and some were shortening the path to partnership. 
McKinsey resisted making changes, but ultimately took small equity stakes in some clients that could not afford to pay cash, raised consultants' salaries and shortened the time necessary to make partner. 
Those moves, another partner said, contributed to growth in the firm's costs, even as the firm raised rates. (A midlevel associate at McKinsey, responsible for managing a single client, costs about $2,500 a day.)
McKinsey has put various cost-cutting measures into effect over the last year. It cut travel and canceled or scaled back training retreats -- even the Reese's Peanut Butter Cups at the firm's New York reception desk were eliminated.
McKinsey, as well as other consultants, has lost credibility lately because of its link to Enron. McKinsey had promoted Enron as a corporate model -- light on hard assets, focused on profiting from transactions and services. That was the idea behind Enron's energy-trading business, which Jeffrey K. Skilling, once a McKinsey partner, helped to set up. In early 2001, Mr. Skilling became Enron's chief executive.
In "Creative Destruction," a book about transforming too-stodgy companies, Richard Foster, a McKinsey partner, and Sarah Kaplan, a former employee of the firm, wrote, "Skilling wanted to change the traditional mind-set of the company from thinking of itself as a pipeline to thinking of itself as an energy store." 
Such close ties to Enron are "somewhat embarrassing," said Wayne Cooper, the chief executive of Kennedy Information. "They had a little egg on their face because they had been touting that as one of their great success stories."
So far, though the firm has produced thousands of pages of documents to Enron's creditors, it has avoided being named a defendant in any Enron-related lawsuits.
But many executives have become highly skeptical of consultants. "If I never see one again, it will be too soon," William Clay Ford Jr., chief executive of Ford Motor, said of consultants in an interview last month. He scornfully recalled efforts by consultants to convert every manager into an "entrepreneur" as the company "pursued top-line growth as a strategy." Ford in the 1990's, he said, "had no shortage of consultants."
BEYOND recovering from Enron, McKinsey must decide how to cope with technology, say partners at other firms. Big firms like Accenture and IBM Global Services, which specialize in assembling complex software systems, for example, or using computers to automate complex processes like responding to customers, hold increasing appeal for clients. Strategy consultants like McKinsey rarely specialize in technology, though many have said they are investing to build their capabilities.
Increasingly, clients "want their technology advice to be linked to their business," said John Donahoe, worldwide managing director at Bain & Company. "We do see a shift here."
In 1997, McKinsey began building a business technology office for that very reason, said Mr. Giangola, the spokesman. That office has grown to 460 consultants.
But in a slow economy, companies always try to save money by paring their use of consultants. And if companies can solve their own management conundrums and do their own market research, McKinsey and its rivals will find it harder and harder to offer expertise worth their high price.
Even Mr. Gupta agrees. "Clients now have more of the capabilities that we traditionally had, having hired many ex-consultants," he said during the Webcast.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about changes at McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, misstated the percentage of consultants laid off last year at another consulting firm, Booz Allen Hamilton. It was less than 2 percent, not almost 9 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Rajat Gupta, above, managing director of McKinsey & Company. The firm, which has offices in Manhattan, is reassessing its growth strategy of the 1990's. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times) Chart: "Tough Times at the Top"After years of expansion, McKinsey & Company, a premier management consulting firm, has started to have a reversal in revenue. 1994CONSULTANTS: 3,300PARTNERS: 425OFFICES: 58, in 24 countriesREVENUE (billions): $1.5 NOWCONSULTANTS: 7,200PARTNERS: 875OFFICES: 84, in 44 countriesREVENUE (billions): $3.3 ('01) MAJOR CLIENTS, PAST OR PRESENTAmerican Express, DoCoMo, Enron, I.B.M., Johnson & Johnson and Swissair Graph tracks revenue, measured in billions, for McKinsey & Company, The Boston Consulting Group and Bain & Company from 1997 to 2001. (Sources: Kennedy Information; McKinsey & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%) CONSULTANTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (92%); BAIN & CO (63%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MCKINSEY & CO; ENRON CORP; BAIN & CO; BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP; BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; ACCENTURE (CO) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%) SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES; 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



703 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Edgy Russian-U.S. Ties Show Up in Visa Policies

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
For all the efforts by Presidents Bush and Vladimir V. Putin to steer relations between the United States and Russia onto a warmer, steadier path, the ups and downs of this new friendship can still be traced in the one area that affects travelers most: visas.
 A decade after the collapse of the Soviet Union, visa requirements between the United States and Russia remain mired in cold war practices that still make applications for travel between the two countries cumbersome and expensive. Despite new efforts to ease the requirements, recent events have further complicated the process. 
 After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the United States imposed new restrictions on all men between 16 and 45 applying for visas to enter the country, regardless of their nationality. All must now complete a lengthy questionnaire detailing their education, work experience and military service. They must also list every country they have visited in the last 10 years. 
In the tit-for-tat world of diplomacy, Russia imposed the same restriction on all American men of the same ages beginning May 1. Russia even used a strikingly similar form, adding a new layer to a visa-application process that was already highly bureaucratic. 
James B. Warlick, the consul general at the United States Embassy here, said that the new American requirements reflected heightened security concerns after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
He added that despite efforts to persuade the Russians that the new restrictions were not intended to single out Russian citizens, "these are reciprocal processes." 
Noting that consular officials have to balance openness with security, Mr. Warlick said, "It can be an onerous form, but it's a necessary one." 
The new requirements do not seem to have drastically cut the number of applications to visit the United States. Despite a sharp decline in visa requests after Sept. 11, a reflection of the general fear of traveling, especially to New York City, the number of applicants in Russia has risen again to normal levels, Mr. Warlick said. 
The new requirements are a setback in efforts to ease the process and the cost of granting visas to Russia and to the United States, which has been a constant irritant in relations for years. In Russia, the American application process is considered arbitrary, onerous and, for most Russians, outlandishly expensive. At the same time, Russia has responded in kind to each new American restriction. 
For months leading up to Mr. Bush's meetings with Mr. Putin in Moscow and St. Petersburg in May, diplomats from each country had made considerable progress in negotiations to reduce the cost of a visa application. On June 3, shortly after Mr. Bush's trip, the American Embassy announced that it would substantially reduce the cost of visas for students and others in educational or vocational training programs, to $65, from $495. 
The decision, effective June 1, followed a pledge between Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin to increase educational and social contacts between the two countries. A day later, Russia announced that it, too, would lower the fee for student visas (technically, the Russians consider these business visas) for Americans to $65.
Students, however, make up only a small portion of travelers. Of the 120,000 Russians who apply for visas each year, only 12,000 fall into that category, according to the embassy. Roughly 150,000 Americans receive Russian visas each year.
The fee changes were a small step toward what Mr. Warlick said he hoped would be a broad rewriting of visa applications between the two countries. Despite recent efforts by tourism officials in Russia's main cities to encourage easier, quicker access, especially from Europe, the country's visa process remains a cold war relic. Each visitor to Russia is required to have an official invitation to visit from a sponsor within the country. Often, that can be a travel agency or business operating in Russia. 
Mr. Warlick said that negotiations were continuing to address the expense of visas for the overwhelming number of visitors to Russia and the United States: tourists and business excecutives. 
The price that each country charges for three-year, multi-entry visas remains $495, while one-year, multi-entry visas cost $195. Visas that allow a single visit remain cheaper, $65. Mr. Warlick said both countries had an economic interest in making it easier for tourists and, especially, business excutives and other professionals who visit frequently, encouraging freer trade and exchanges.
"There is a strong interest in the Russian Government and certainly in ours in moving away from some of the old practices: expensive visas, single-entry visas, practices that began in the cold war," Mr. Warlick said. "And we are." 
Whether the two countries succeed in easing the old practices remains to be seen, especially as the United States tightens its restrictions in the aftermath of Sept. 11. It will depend most on the progress of the new friendship that Presidents Bush and Putin have promised. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL WARNINGS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (68%) RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; VISAS; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%) MYERS, STEVEN LEE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



704 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Pequot Recognition Is Only the First Step 

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA GROARK 

 BODY:
FOR the Mohegan Indians, the news came in a brief 1994 telephone call from Ada E. Deer, then assistant secretary for Indian Affairs. Shortly after 2:30 p.m. on March 7, Ms. Deer called the modest two-room tribal office in Uncasville and told Chief Ralph Sturges his tribe had received federal recognition.
 On June 24, a little more than eight years after Ms. Deer's phone call, two more Connecticut groups, the Eastern Pequots and Paucatuck Eastern Pequots, achieved federal recognition, albeit as one tribe. But this time, the news was delivered via teleconference. And there were so many people on the line that a roll call had to be taken. 
 Such is the environment the Easterns and Paucatuck Easterns find themselves in as they embark on a future that could include opening one or more casinos in southeastern Connecticut. Unlike the Mohegans, who opened a casino within three years of Ms. Deer's call, what the bureau is calling the "historical Eastern Pequot Tribe" must address a host of complex issues before moving ahead with economic development plans, not the least of which is a possible appeal of its federal recognition. And that, tribal leaders said, could indefinitely postpone any casino plans. 
"We are years away from that," James A. Cunha Jr., the Paucatuck Eastern chief, said. "There's no land. There's no casino. There's nothing. There are other hurdles we have to clear before we get to that point."
Given the stakes involved, the situation surrounding the federal recognition should not be surprising. In Connecticut, tribal casinos are taking in an estimated $1.5 billion in revenues annually. And judging by the densely populated nature of the Northeast, the market could easily grow.
"In essence, the demographics of the Atlantic City market and the Connecticut market are the same in terms of the number of adults and average income," said Mitchell Etess, executive vice president of marketing for the Mohegan Sun. "And Atlantic City is a $4 billion market."
It's those numbers that enticed Sol Kerzner, a South African casino developer, to become a partner with the Mohegans and prompted Donald Trump to team up with the Paucatuck Easterns. The Easterns have the financial backing of Eastern Capital Development of Southport.
But while they are grossing millions each month, the casinos have brought more cars to the region and taxed local services, according to the officials from the three towns that surround the Mashantucket Pequots' Foxwoods Resort Casino. Add one or two more casinos to the mix in southeastern Connecticut and the situation could worsen, they said. 
"I think it will exacerbate the traffic issues, the housing pressures, the job market pressures," said First Selectman Robert Congdon of Preston. "I think it will have a negative effect on all of those." 
For that reason, the three towns have spent more than $500,000 to monitor the recognition petitions of the Easterns and Paucatuck Easterns. Their close examination of the documents and the recognition process could ultimately lead to an appeal of the ruling.
Under federal regulations, interested parties and petitioners have 90 days from the time the recognition decision is published in the Federal Register to file an appeal with the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, said Nedra Darling, spokeswoman for the federal Department of Interior's Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs. In the case of the Mohegans, the only other Connecticut tribe to be recognized through the administrative process, it was clear within a day or two that no one would appeal their recognition. But judging from the controversy surrounding the Easterns' and Paucatuck Easterns' petitions, there is a chance one could be filed. 
Just hours after the groups were recognized, Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said he was considering contesting the decision. Among the things he will consider is the impact the ruling will have on other petitions for federal recognition. For example, he said the decision apparently relies on state recognition of the groups as a way to bridge evidentiary gaps. 
"We're really at a historic turning point, not only on casino gambling but legal and practical tribal recognition issues," he said. "And the ramifications will be profound and far reaching not only for Connecticut but for the whole country." 
First Selectman Nicholas H. Mullane II of North Stonington said his town was waiting to review the final decision and then would consult with local and state officials and its attorneys before making a decision. Representatives from North Stonington, Ledyard and Preston are scheduled to meet with Mr. Blumenthal on July 10 to discuss a possible appeal, Mayor Wesley J. Johnson Sr. of Ledyard said. 
If the Easterns and Paucatuck Easterns survive the appeals period, they face another interesting hurdle: creating a governing body. Though the two groups share a reservation in North Stonington, they often have feuded. Now, according to the federal decision, they are recognized as a single tribe, the Eastern Pequot Tribe.
The Paucatucks, who number about 150, and the Easterns, who number about 1,000, currently have their own governing bodies, not to mention their own financial backers and development plans. So the question is how will they conduct relations with the federal government?
"There has to be an entity recognized by the government who can enter into those agreements," said Nell Jessup Newton, dean of the University of Connecticut School of Law and an Indian law expert. "So since nothing presently exists, they will have to create something." 
Ms. Darling said officials of the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs will work with both groups to help develop a governing document for the Eastern Pequot Tribe. And she added some of the work has already started. For instance, the two groups will use the rolls of names they each submitted with their petitions to determine future tribal membership.
In the hours after the decision was announced, Mr. Cunha said he expected that officials from both groups would meet within days for a brainstorming session. But even he was having a hard time envisioning what the government structure would look like. 
"I don't have an answer to that," he said. "We don't know what we are doing. I don't know if we are falling underneath one, or the other or if you're creating a new one." 
For that reason, both groups need to review the final decision, said Nancy Tyler, spokeswoman for the Easterns. 
"I'm sure they will be meeting in the future, but both sides need time to read the decision and try to interpret and understand what the B.I.A. is directing them to do," she said. 
At the same time, if the groups continue to pursue their casino plans, they must go through a lengthy process that includes applying to put land into trust, receiving approval of management contracts by the National Indian Gaming Commission and negotiating a compact with the state.
"This is a very long, complicated and arduous process because one has to deal with many different agencies both within the state and the federal government," said Len Wolman, managing partner of Trading Cove Associates, which helped develop, manage and finance the first phase of the Mohegan Sun.
And the process has only become more complicated. For example, when the Mashantuckets and Mohegans each negotiated their state compacts, they only needed the approval of the governor. Now a gaming compact has to be approved by the State Legislature.
And though the Mashantuckets had to consent to let the Mohegans have slot machines in their casino, both tribes must now agree to allow another group to have table games and slot machines, according to Stanley A. Twardy Jr., a lawyer who was involved in the negotiations with the Mashantuckets. 
Mohegan Tribal Chairman Mark Brown said his tribe has repeatedly said it would not "stand in the way" of a federal recognized tribe's pursuit of a casino. Cedric Woods, a spokesman for the Mashantuckets, however, said, "We still think it's really premature to be talking about that at this point in time."
By Mr. Mullane's estimates, if someone contests the recognition decision, it could take months if not years to hear the appeals. 
"This could be three to six months or three to five years," he said. 
And once that's done, if the groups pursue a casino, Mr. Brown, for one, said it would not happen overnight.
"It's going to be a long-term process to get it all put in place," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); POPULATION DENSITY (58%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; EASTERN PEQUOT INDIANS; CASINOS; PEQUOT INDIANS; PAUCATUCK EASTERN PEQUOT INDIANS 

COMPANY: FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (61%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (61%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (72%) GROARK, VIRGINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



705 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Bonnie Rubin, Michael Weinbach

 BODY:
Bonnie Hope Rubin, the daughter of Laura and Alan Rubin of Potomac, Md., was married yesterday evening to Michael Scott Weinbach, a son of Joanne and Arthur Weinbach of Short Hills, N.J. Rabbi Jack Luxemburg officiated at the Four Seasons Hotel in Washington.
 Mrs. 
Weinbach, 27, is a candidate for a master's degree in environmental health sciences at the Harvard School of Public Health. She graduated cum laude from the University of Michigan. Her father, a mechanical engineer, is a section chief at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Rockville, Md. Her mother is an economist at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington. 
 Mr. Weinbach, 28, is the chief executive of U-inspire Inc., an employee motivation and communications consulting company in Boston. He graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School. His mother was until this month the chairwoman of the Rachel Coalition in Florham Park, N.J., a nonprofit organization that assists victims of domestic violence. His father is the chairman and chief executive of Automatic Data Processing, the computing services company in Roseland, N.J.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Richard Greenhouse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (66%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (51%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: INSPIRE INC (70%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

TICKER: 2724 (JASDAQ) (70%); ADP (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (70%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (55%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: RUBIN, BONNIE HOPE (BONNIE HOPE WEINBACH); WEINBACH, MICHAEL SCOTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (56%) MARYLAND, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



706 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Argentina's Contagion 

 BODY:
Argentina's economic collapse six months ago permitted the Bush administration to traffic in a couple of myths. The first was that unlike countries like Mexico or Russia, Argentina could become bankrupt without causing any impact beyond its borders. The second was that the United States could stay on the sidelines indefinitely without damaging its interests in the region. It figured that it would dispense a little tough-minded neglect that would not only do the Argentines a bit of good but would also serve as a lesson to others seeking an instant bailout. It is time to expose both notions for what they are -- false and dangerous -- and for the administration to do more to help solve Argentina's crisis. Otherwise, the ongoing implosion of Argentina, Latin America's third-largest economy, threatens to undermine political and economic stability throughout the region. 
 Like other emerging markets that have endured their own financial crises in recent years, Argentina is frantically negotiating with the International Monetary Fund for a reprieve that might help it get its house in order. Its economy minister, Roberto Lavagna, was in Washington last week to meet with I.M.F. officials and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and make his case for why Argentina deserves new credits that would allow it to roll over its debt obligations for the next two years. 
 Mr. Lavagna faces an undeservedly uphill battle. The Bush administration has been far too passive, making little effort to exhort the I.M.F. to reach a deal with Buenos Aires.
President Eduardo Duhalde's transitional government is the first to admit that Argentina's problems are the result of the country's own mistakes, but it has made a great deal of progress in meeting its creditors' conditions for further aid. It would be a costly mistake for President Bush and his Treasury secretary to believe that they can continue punishing Argentina -- setting an example for other profligate nations out there -- without any spillover effects or contagion. Financial markets in Brazil, Chile and elsewhere are starting to show signs of weakness attributable in part to Argentina's ongoing agony.
There is also an emerging political contagion -- a dangerous backlash against free markets and economic liberalization -- spreading throughout Latin America. Coupled with its failure to make progress on any new trade deals, the Bush administration's perceived callousness toward the suffering of Argentina, long the star pupil of American-style capitalism in South America, could help fan this backlash and give it an anti-American flavor. That would be an unfortunate legacy for a president who took office promising to make improved relations with Latin America a high priority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%) ARGENTINA; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



707 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: The World: Remember the Cold War?; 
How to Rig a Democracy

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH'S blueprint for an acceptable Palestinian government -- a vision he outlined last week as he demanded the replacement of Yasir Arafat as the Palestinians' leader -- would be the envy of Arabs everywhere. It was a vision of an open democratic society with clean elections, a parliament that is more than a rubber stamp and "a vibrant economy where honest enterprise is encouraged by honest government." 
 Such a utopia does not exist in the Arab world, where pro-democracy advocates risk arrest and the kings, sheiks and presidents vacate power only in the event of death or coup. Given the state of the neighborhood, many Palestinians are understandably skeptical, to say the least, about the possibility of creating the full-blown democracy that Mr. Bush demanded as the price of American support for a Palestinian state. 
 But the president's blunt ultimatum to the Palestinians raised a tantalizing question. 
What if the United States were as serious about saving the Arabs from corrupt autocrats and radical Islam as it once was about saving the world from communism? What if the tools of the cold war -- selective propaganda, open support for dissidents, covert support for opposition political movements and sanctions -- were put to use to promote Arab democracy and moderation?
"While the United States cannot forcibly democratize a state, you can use other ways," said Rohan Gunaratna, a researcher at the Center for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. "You can help them build a democratic economy. You can see that the education system is reformed, that Islamic charities are held accountable, that financial institutions are made transparent. You can help create independent media institutions."
Cold war-style covert operations by the Central Intelligence Agency should not be ruled out when democratic change cannot be made openly, he said, because the cost of not insisting on democracy is more Arab frustration with the United States and more terror.
"Look at Saudi Arabia," said Dr. Gunaratna, author of a new book, "Inside Al Qaeda" (Columbia University Press). "Why are so many terrorists produced by that country? Because it's not democratic, it's not representative of the people. The United States must put maximum pressure on those states to democratize. Now the U.S. is shielding those countries."
Veterans of cold war operations, however, say the United States should abide by one rule of thumb in spreading the gospel of democracy: don't set expectations too high.
"The problem is that we always want them to look like us," said Milton A. Bearden, a former C.I.A. official who ran the agency's anti-Soviet war in Afghanistan and has worked extensively in the Middle East. "In all the countries I've lived in, I never saw one that could afford American democracy. We're going to have to get a whole lot smarter than to just say, 'Get a copy of the Federalist papers and the Constitution and you're going to be okay.' "
"We're not challenged here by nation-states trying to grab pieces of real estate," Mr. Bearden added. "We have moved across that cusp of history and we're looking across the fault lines of civilizations. We have to take whatever good things we took from the last conflict, both overt and covert, and bring them to this conflict."
OTHER analysts warn that the goal of democracy for the Middle East requires far more subtlety than was needed when the United States was trying to check Soviet influence. America's interest in having strong stable governments in Egypt and Jordan, the only two Arab states at peace with Israel, has long outweighed concerns about repression there. And economic interests, chiefly oil, have long trumped American discomfort with human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia. 
While the United States clandestinely backed anticommunist parties in Western Europe after World War II -- its operations during Italy's 1948 elections are the best-known example -- it may be far riskier to meddle in the Middle East's volatile mix of religion and politics.
Moderate Arabs still blame the United States for the emergence of Islamic fundamentalism as a political force in the 1970's, when they say American agents cultivated religious student movements on Arab campuses as counterweights to leftist groups. Similarly, Osama bin Laden and other senior Qaeda leaders honed their radical views and picked up weapons training while fighting on the American side in Afghanistan in the 80's.
In the Internet and satellite television age, moderates say, Americans should play to their strengths, not by imposing prescriptions for Arabs but by simply helping pro-democracy advocates express themselves.
"We have the will and the conviction ourselves to support democratization," said Mohamed Charfi, a Tunisian human rights activist who has been condemned by both Islamic fundamentalists and Tunisia's secular government during his long career as an advocate for democracy. 
"If the United States intervenes to change religious instruction in these countries, for example, everyone would object," he added. "But if the United States stepped in to push democratization, no one would object. It is the most defensible position for you."
There is a cold war model for such an approach, one that grew out of the 1975 Helsinki conference at which the Soviet Union agreed to abide by a list of human rights standards. The Soviet dissidents who organized themselves to monitor their government's compliance, followed by similarly courageous dissidents in Eastern Europe, ultimately formed the core of civil society in those countries. Western countries vigorously and openly defended them.
"You have plenty of great minds, enough N.G.O.'s and civil society people in the Middle East," said Mustapha Tlili, director of a project promoting dialogue between the West and the Islamic world for the World Policy Institute at New School University in New York. "But they are being suppressed or kept powerless or even put in jail if they criticize the head of state or any aspect of political life."
If they can be protected, they could lead the drive for democratization, Dr. Tlili added. "The United States," he said, "could stand up to this and say, 'Look, we are serious about freedom of expression, tolerance and so on, and if you don't respect that, there are consequences.' That's exactly what the U.S. did with the Soviet Union."
The cold war analogy has its limits. American policy, particularly in supporting Israel, is damned by Arabs of all political stripes. Obvious American support for people who want to modernize Islam and create open societies could taint them as American, and by extension Israeli, puppets. Moreover, opposition forces in most Arab countries are rooted either in Islamic fundamentalism or left-wing movements, and are often anti-American on principle. 
Proponents of a forceful American democratization strategy, however, say conditions at the start of the battle with communism were just as daunting. 
AFTER World War II, Americans were operating in a Germany that had been devastated by American bombs and a Japan that was culturally foreign to the West. In Western Europe, opposition to the fascists had been led by Communists, who had links to the Soviet Union and opposed the formation of NATO.
"Gradually, as we became more familiar with the political situation, we learned to identify groups we could work with," said Walter Russell Mead, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "The European left evolved. It ceased to be monolithically anti-U.S. or anti-NATO. On the American side, we got more sophisticated in our approach about who we could work with. I don't see why something like that could not take place in the Arab world." 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A time line last Sunday about the Bush administration's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East misstated the chronology of two events, both of which occurred in March 2002. The Passover suicide bombing in Netanya, an Israeli resort town, took place on March 27. Israeli raids that killed at least 40 Palestinians occurred on March 8 -- before, not after the Netanya attack. The time line also misstated the number of Israelis killed in the Netanya bombing. It was 29, not 22.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A boy waves a Palestinian flag in the Gaza Strip near a poster of Yasir Arafat. (Reuters)(pg. 1); In 1949, French Communists, like these rejecting fights for "American billionaires," were a big political force. (The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart: "Bush Diplomacy In the Middle East"The Bush administration's policy toward the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has fluctuated between a hands-off position and a more active stance. Starting OutDrawing a sharp distinction from the Clinton approach, the Bush administration placed responsibility for pursuing future negotiations with the Israelis and Palestinians themselves. FEB. 8, 2001 "We shouldn't think of American involvement for the sake of American involvement." National Security Adviser, Condoleezza Rice On a trip devoted mostly to shaping Iraq sanctions, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell met with Israelis and Palestinians. MARCH 19, 2001 "The United States stands ready to assist, not insist." Colin Powell Ariel Sharon became Israeli prime minister. EngagementAmerican diplomats attempted to build on a report by the Mitchell commission, which had been appointed in the Clinton era. MAY 21, 2001 "The United States is not putting forward a peace plan today." Colin Powell A commission led by former Senator George J. Mitchell called for a Palestinian crackdown on terrorism and an Israeli freeze on settlements in order for peace talks to resume. Powell endorsed the Mitchell report. Powell promoted the resumption of talks but did not put forward a new peace plan. The C.I.A. director, George J. Tenet, mediated a cease-fire plan with a focus on security, asking Palestinians to arrest terror suspects and asking Israeli troops to pull back to positions occupied before the end of Sept. 2000. Backing offU.S. diplomatic efforts to maintain a cease-fire failed, and the U.S. backed off. JULY 2001 "We've thrown Tenet at it; we've thrown Powell at it; we're not going to throw anyone else at it." A senior Bush official President Bush made appeals to halt the violence, directing most of his criticism at Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. World Trade Center, Pentagon attacks. The Bush administration repeatedly called for greater efforts to end Mideast violence. CoalitionThe administration urged truce talks, hoping to facilitate a coalition to fight terrorism. OCT. 2001 "Do not try to appease the Arabs at our expense. We cannot accept this." Ariel Sharon Bombing campaign in Afghanistan began. Bush referred to a state of Palestine at the U.N., but declined to meet Arafat. EngagementAs the war against terrorism started, the Bush administration began its first significant foray into the peace process. NOV. 10, 2001 "We are working toward the day when two states -- Israel and Palestine -- live peacefully together." President Bush Powell pledged more involvement, with high-level envoys seeking a cease-fire. He did not lay out a specific framework for a settlement. An American envoy, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, began his mission. Zinni was recalled. Zinni returned to the Mideast. Zinni left. SidelinesIsrael seized a ship full of munitions, then moved militarily with support from the Bush administration. JAN. 24, 2002 "The president understands the reason that Israel has taken the action that it takes." White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer The Bush administration expressed support for Israel's confinement of Arafat to his compound. Bush publicly praised a Saudi peace initiative. EngagementThe violence careened out of control. Secretary Powell went to the region and returned home with no indication that either side would budge. APRIL 17, 2002 "Cease-fire is not a relevant term at the moment." Colin Powell As part of a Mideast tour, Vice President Dick Cheney visited Israel. He did not see Arafat. Zinni returned to the Mideast. Bush demanded that Israelis withdraw from the West Bank and that Arafat clamp down on terrorism. Powell arrived in the Mideast. Powell and Zinni left without a cease-fire or truce. Partial PlanPresident Bush advocated work toward a Palestinian state, but not without Palestinian reform. Then he offered a plan that did not include Arafat. JUNE 24, 2002 "Peace requires a new and different Palestinian leadership so that a Palestinian state can be born." President Bush The Bush administration committed itself to join in a peace conference, then later declared the time was not right. While in the Mideast, Tenet began promoting an overhaul of Palestinian security. Bush announced that Arafat must be replaced before the U.S. would support a Palestinian state. Chart: "Violence In The Region" APRIL 2001 Israeli troops raided a Gaza refugee camp, the largest, deepest incursion of the intifada at that point. JUNE 2001 A suicide bombing killed at least 17 outside a crowded beachside club in Tel Aviv. JULY 2001 Israelis retained a policy of singling out and killing suspected militants. AUGUST 2001 A suicide bomber struck a Jerusalem restaurant. Israel entered a Palestinian-ruled zone for about two days. OCT. 2001 Israel's minister of tourism, Rehavam Zeevi, was assassinated by a militant Palestinian group. DEC. 2001 Palestinian terrorist bombings killed 25 people in 12 hours. MARCH 2002 A suicide bombing on Passover killed 22 Israelis in Netanya. Israeli forces then killed at least 40 Palestinians in a day of raids. APRIL 2002 Israel continued an invasion of the West Bank, described as a sweep for militants and weapons. JUNE 2002 After more suicide bombings, including one next to a bus, the Israelis began to reoccupy Palestinian land.(Sources: Stephen P. Cohen, Israel Policy Forum; Shibley Telhami, University of Maryland; David Makovsky, Washington Institute for Near East Policy)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); COUPS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RELIGION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); WRITERS (61%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) SACHS, SUSAN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); SCOTLAND (79%) MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



708 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: An Uphill Road for Afghanistan's Money Man 

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

 BODY:
Ashraf Ghani is Afghanistan's money man, and money, obviously, brings with it power. Earlier in June, Mr. Ghani, a former professor at an American college, capped a stunning rise to power by being sworn in as finance minister of Afghanistan's new transitional government, six months after leaving his home in Bethesda, Md. Over the next 18 months, he will oversee the distribution of billions of dollars in aid money and wield enormous influence as a senior government minister and close confidant of Afghanistan's leader, Hamid Karzai.
 But with the United States and other donor nations having delivered only $1 billion of the $1.7 billion in immediate aid they pledged for Afghanistan in January, Mr. Ghani and his fellow ministers are in a vulnerable position. The vast majority of the aid has gone to the United Nations and foreign groups, leaving the fledgling government with a $100 million deficit and thousands of unpaid and angry teachers and civil servants. 
 Mr. Ghani, Mr. Karzai and other returning exiles who play such a prominent role in the new government must also somehow meet the mammoth expectations of the Afghan people while not being perceived as American puppets. Mr. Ghani exemplifies a growing schism in the country: the rise of Western-educated, pro-American technocrats in the central government while warlords and religious conservatives dominate the rest of the country.
Mr. Karzai himself spent years in the United States. Taj Muhammad Wardak, the newly appointed interior minister, returned to Afghanistan last fall from California.
Mr. Ghani, 53, at first glance seems as American as he is Afghan. He dresses in silk ties and dark business suits. He speaks fluent English and enunciates with an academic's soft and careful manner.
"What the international community needs to understand is that we want to use the present as a bridge to the future," he said in an interview in Kabul in May, "and not be condemned for the past."
To many American and European officials, Mr. Ghani is ideal for the new government. After earning a doctorate in anthropology at Columbia in 1982, Mr. Ghani taught at Johns Hopkins University. In 1991, he joined the World Bank.
That posting gave him contacts and credibility with Western donor nations. Sensitive to their concerns, he has vowed to crack down on corruption in Afghanistan.
Before being named finance minister, Mr. Ghani headed the Afghan Assistance Coordination Authority, a newly created government office that approved all major aid projects in Afghanistan.
"He has made himself the indispensable broker inside and outside the government," said Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations' special representative to Afghanistan and a friend of Mr. Ghani's.
But after 24 years in exile, he has spent almost as many years in the United States as he has in Afghanistan, which could hurt his credibility with some Afghans. Also, some Western diplomats said they feared his brusque manner could alienate Afghans and foreign aid officials. 
His dedication has not been questioned, though. He is a tireless worker, and he constantly tries to counter his country's image as a bereft place. A bulleted item from his "talking points" for the interview read: "failed politics, but not failed state." And he described Afghans as "an incredibly politically conscious public" that compensates for a 70 percent illiteracy rate by constantly listening to radio news from the outside world.
Mr. Ghani, an ethnic Pashtun born near Kabul, made an emotional return to Afghanistan last December, as an adviser to the United Nations mission. He said he was "devastated by the scale of the destruction."
He soon met Mr. Karzai, with whom he had previously spoken only by telephone, and agreed to become his adviser. He resigned from the World Bank, moved out of his Bethesda home, and arrived in Kabul with his wife and 20-year-old son, Tarek, who is on leave from his studies at Stanford University and works as his special assistant. Mr. Ghani's daughter stayed behind and opened a nonprofit art collective in New York.
As finance minister, Mr. Ghani faces many challenges. There are early signs of donor fatigue, with the World Food Program still lacking enough contributions to deliver food in some parts of the country. And officials in Washington have questioned why there have not been more road building and other projects that would immediately create jobs for some of the country's tens of thousands of armed former combatants.
The arrival of a large United Nations mission and scores of aid groups in Kabul has distorted the local economy, causing rents and pay rates to skyrocket. Many of the most talented Afghans are taking better-paying jobs with foreign aid groups instead of working for the talent-starved government.
A program that Mr. Ghani started to eradicate opium crops sparked violent protests in areas outside Kabul. The effort seemed to highlight the divisions between Kabul and the rest of the country. But Mr. Ghani insists those gaps are not as wide as they appear.
"I thought I would find a people that would be nationalists and would have a narrow, nationalist focus," he said. "What I've discovered is that people are clear that the path to security and stabilization is through the international community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashraf Ghani used to teach anthropology at Johns Hopkins. (Natalie Behring-Chisholm for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) FINANCES; FOREIGN AID; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) ROHDE, DAVID; GHANI, ASHRAF (MIN); KARZAI, HAMID 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); EUROPE (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 



709 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: With Time Running Out, Bush Shifted Mideast Policy 

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Patrick E. Tyler, David E. Sanger, Todd S. Purdum and Eric Schmitt and was written by Mr. Tyler. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
After a fitness run last Saturday through Fort McNair near the Pentagon, President Bush asked a few top aides to join him in the White House residence to discuss his long-delayed Middle East policy speech.
 When they settled into Mr. Bush's private study, the president said he was dissatisfied with a crucial point: The speech left unclear whether Washington's disappointment with Yasir Arafat had grown so deep that the peace effort could not go forward as long as he stayed in power. 
 Still energized from his run, Mr. Bush bristled almost in anger as he discussed a speech that had already been through two dozen drafts. He was being "nuanced to death," as one aide characterized his complaint to his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice; his chief speechwriter, Michael Gerson; and Karen P. Hughes, the presidential counselor who is leaving the White House next week. 
"You cannot make peace if Arafat is running the Palestinian Authority," an aide said, paraphrasing the president's outburst.
With this 11th-hour epiphany, Mr. Bush profoundly changed the Middle East policy that had been emerging since late March and that was otherwise centered on a historic offer of a provisional Palestinian state within three years.
Mr. Bush's position that Mr. Arafat must go and that not much else can happen until he does is a significant gamble by the president, one offering the Palestinians the carrot of strong American support for Palestinian statehood. To many, it seems a long shot, though a prominent Palestinian columnist in the London-based (and Saudi supported) newspaper Al Hayat called for Mr. Arafat to step aside.
With the abrupt shift in strategy, some administration officials, Arab leaders and Middle East experts are wondering whether the United States is in effect disengaging, putting its policy on hold while Mr. Arafat remains defiantly in place. 
Arab diplomats, who have praised Mr. Bush's commitment to Palestinian statehood and who have no illusions about Mr. Arafat's flaws, privately fear that months of American stalling will only incite the region's partisans to more violence. 
"There is no such thing as disengagement in the Middle East," an American diplomat in the Middle East said ruefully.
In deciding to abandon Mr. Arafat as a partner in the peace effort, Mr. Bush veered away from a framework that included a commitment to early political negotiations with Mr. Arafat's Palestinian Authority, an international peace conference this summer and a deepening engagement with Arab leaders. He chose a path strongly encouraged by Vice President Dick Cheney but acted against the preference of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. 
Just days after the Monday speech, an undertone of defiance is building in the region, Arab diplomats report. There is speculation that Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney, whose ear is always close to Congress, may have wanted to freeze the process until after the Congressional elections this fall and saw a demand for new Palestinian leadership, a new constitution, new courts and financial controls as a way to delay.
The Palestinian elections are set for January, and until then, no one in the Bush administration seems able to explain how the United States deals with the Palestinian Authority.
"I don't think there is any notion of disengagement," a senior administration official said, adding that the United States would still try to work with both sides. Beyond that, he said, "we still expect the Arabs to press the Palestinians to move farther" on security and legal reforms.
"The logic to this," he continued, "is that the Palestinians have to evolve into a more responsible partner to work with the Israelis."

Shattering Complacency
Until this spring, the White House had shunned any idea that it would undertake risky peace initiatives like the ones that President Bill Clinton tried in his final year in office. Mr. Bush's national security team considered the Israeli-Palestinian conflict a brutal sideshow, not one that involved America's strategic interests. 
That view changed on March 27, when a suicide bomb killed 29 Israeli civilians in the beach resort of Netanya during the Passover feast, just as Arab leaders issued an offer of peace and recognition to Israel.
The horrified reaction in Israel and the United States shattered the administration's complacency over the depth of the Middle East crisis.
The Netanya attack was the 21st suicide bombing of the year. In just three months, more than 60 Israelis were killed and hundreds maimed, while on the Palestinian side, deaths and injuries were running three to four times higher. 
As Ariel Sharon, the hard-line Israeli prime minister, wheeled tank and helicopter forces into the West Bank to destroy terrorist bases and hide-outs, the United States joined a call by the United Nations Security Council for an immediate cease-fire, an end to terror and an Israeli withdrawal.
But Mr. Bush spoke of the conflict as if he were at odds with the position his administration was taking. From his ranch in Texas, he said, "I fully understand Israel's need to defend herself," and his comments encouraged the perception that he had given Israel a green light to go for a military solution.
Throughout April, the violence spun virtually out of control. Israeli tank forces laid siege to Mr. Arafat's compound, and street demonstrations erupted in Arab capitals.
"During the course of one week, the situation in the Middle East has deteriorated dramatically," Mr. Bush said on April 4, appearing in the Rose Garden of the White House with Secretary Powell at his side. The president sent Secretary Powell to press for a cessation of violence and an Israeli withdrawal, and "to seek broad international support" for Mr. Bush's "vision" of peace based on Israeli and Palestinian states.
Instead, Secretary Powell's tour was marked by recriminations over why Mr. Bush refused to exert pressure on Mr. Sharon to withdraw his forces "without delay," as the president had asked.
Arab frustration boiled over when the normally staid Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia flew to Texas to tell the president that American relations with the kingdom and the rest of the Arab world were headed over a cliff.
Mr. Bush pledged to the Saudi prince that he would get his hands dirty in the Middle East. He proposed a division of labor in which he would press Mr. Sharon to withdraw from the West Bank, if the Arabs forced Mr. Arafat to reform the Palestinian Authority and build a unified security force that could combat terror.
During May and June, Mr. Arafat and the Palestinian Authority developed extensive plans for political and economic changes that are now under way. And the State Department under Secretary Powell began preparing the building blocks for a presidential statement that would be a road map to the vision of two states the president had expressed.
But along with the changes came the suicide bombers.
On May 7, an explosion that killed 15 at Rishon le Zion forced Mr. Sharon's early departure from Washington. It was the first of four suicide attacks that month. In June the death toll soared: 17 dead in a bus attack on June 5, 19 dead at Patt Junction in Jerusalem on June 18, and 6 dead at a bus stop on June 19.

Changing the Approach
The process of writing the speech that would lay out the road map to peace turned into a debate that ultimately overturned the administration's approach to the Middle East.
In mid-May, the debate over Mr. Arafat caused George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, to delay his trip to the Middle East, where he was supposed to be helping Mr. Arafat build a terror-fighting security force. When Mr. Tenet finally flew to the region this month, it appeared that Secretary Powell's position -- that there was no alternative to working with Mr. Arafat -- had prevailed.
"When we went into the process," said an administration official who reviewed many of the more than two dozen speech drafts, "the idea was that Arafat was a reality, however flawed he is." But in the final days of drafting, the president reacted strongly to a last-minute intelligence report from the Israelis that Mr. Arafat was tied to another transfer of funds to members of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, presidential aides said. Al Aksa had claimed responsibility for the June 19 suicide bombing.
Ever since the Palestinian Authority was caught trying to smuggle arms from Iran on the ship Karine A in January, Mr. Bush appeared to lose all trust in Mr. Arafat.
After the decision to abandon him, Secretary Powell, with team loyalty, shifted gears to try to sell Mr. Bush's plan to Palestinians and Arab leaders and to the many Americans who follow the Middle East's agonies.
But one ambassador who has been subjected to days of White House and State Department persuasion said on Friday that he was losing optimism about Mr. Bush's commitment.
"We have decided not to debate the speech any longer," the ambassador said. "We have said, 'Let's get down to work. The proof is in the pudding.' But, still, the administration says it is not ready." 
Arab officials said Prince Abdullah would send a private statement to Mr. Bush on Monday through the Saudi ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan. 
William J. Burns, an assistant secretary of state, will meet in London next week with officials of the European Union, the United Nations and Russia to sound out their views.
Then Secretary Powell will decide whether to travel to the Middle East or invite leaders to Washington, but the diplomatic agenda is conspicuously thin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); WRITERS (64%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (59%) AL AKSA MARTYRS BRIGADES; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) TYLER, PATRICK E; SANGER, DAVID E; PURDUM, TODD S; SCHMITT, ERIC; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2002 

 
