

1 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: John W. Olsen;
Labor's Voice in the Days of Downsizing

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK 

 BODY:
THESE are not the best of times for Connecticut's labor movement. Membership is down, as are wages, and unemployment is up. Still the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the umbrella organization for about 600 member unions in the state, represents 200,000 working people and adds up to a powerful political force.
John W. Olsen has led the organization for eight years and this year, one of the top items on his agenda will be a renewed effort to raise the state minimum wage -- to $6.16 an hour. He's also a feisty fighter on behalf of campaign finance reform, voter registration and free time for candidates on television and radio. 
 "I benefit when the masses of the people vote. I'm willing to accept the results of our process," he said.
Mr. Olsen said he particularly detests competition among the states. "It's Connecticut against Jersey," he said. "We're racing to the bottom: who can give the biggest abatements, the biggest welfare handouts to corporations to attract them."
Recently Mr. Olsen discussed some of his organization's issues and his personal concerns about Connecticut labor. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. Why have unions lost membership?
A. Here in Connecticut we were hurt less in the initial stage of the loss of manufacturing jobs because we had defense jobs. Now, we are feeling the shock of the cuts in the defense budget at Electric Boat, Textron and Pratt & Whitney.
Really, the news in Connecticut is not with our members. It's the white-collar workers, insurance and banking jobs. Those weren't unionized jobs. When it was the factory worker jobs being lost there wasn't such an outcry. Now that people higher up the ladder are losing their jobs, people are suddenly beginning to take notice.
Q. Unions have a poor public image. Why?
A. Wealthy corporations have spent a lot of money to demonize unions. You never turn on the TV and see a story about how unions contributed to building this country. All you see is something about gangsters or corruption. It seems like those who control Hollywood don't like unions either. Guess what? They bought off Ronald Reagan, who sold out his membership when he was president of the Screen Actors Guild to deprive them of royalties. I wasn't too proud that he was the only President to hold a union card. We don't need those kind of members.
Q. The chairman of the Republican Party in Connecticut is a union member. Is that a plus?
A. He was on TV at the Republican National Convention with his conductor's hat and his harmonica and says he's a union member. We all have people, whether union members or professionals, who are misguided.
I believe Chris DePino has lost sight of what unions are all about. Unions are about the group working collectively together. He subscribes to the principles of Ronald Reagan: "Am I better off?" That's what he's seeking to make himself, better off.
He is complaining that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is involved in politics. When he received our support he didn't have any problem with us being involved in politics.
He also stood with the Governor against the improvement in the minimum wage. Eighty percent of the people supported it.
Q. How is labor's relationship with the Governor?
A. Clearly he has a different agenda. We have him on tape saying we should return to the old work ethic with people working three and four jobs. I can't get along with anyone who wants people to work three or four jobs. But you have to work with elected representatives.
I do have a disagreement with the Governor doing advertising for the Connecticut Business and Industry Association. I think you can be a representative of people without being beholden, or appearing to be, to some organization.
And in the General Assembly you see a lack of understanding of many complex issues. Many Democrats have been hoodwinked into supporting some kind of position in the name of jobs. Not only do they sell this snake oil in the name of jobs but they never deliver. I wouldn't mind if they delivered.
Q. What about the issue of fraud in unemployment compensation?
A. I may not like the law the way it is but it is the law. Also, under that law, people are entitled to collect unemployment insurance. Is the Labor Commissioner worried about the masses of people that are being denied their rightful benefit? Isn't that the department's business, to make sure that people who are entitled to things get them?
I want balance. I want fairness and I'm not finding it. That's a problem in many areas -- the judicial, legislative and executive branches. People have to force change and stop saying they can't make a difference. The so-called silent majority are people making less money, their quality of life is less. They're doing exactly what the Governor says they should do, working two, three and four jobs.
Q. Is the solution to create new jobs?
A. No! We should share in productivity.
Productivity is at an all-time high. What made this country great was when we went from a 12-hour day, 7 days a week, to reducing our work day and reducing our work week. We abolished child labor. We shared in productivity.
We believe in capital and that business has a right to profit. We also believe as workers that we are part of and deserve to share in that productivity. How do you do that? With higher wages or fewer hours.
What we're seeing is the stock market at an all-time high, corporate salaries at an all-time high and corporate profits at an all-time high but we see stagnation. In fact, we see a reduction in real purchasing power. We are 16th in wages in the world.
Q. Are immigrant workers taking American jobs?
A. Business is trying to turn us against each other. Those people are not our enemy. To think that my misery, my problems are because of the guy over here is wrong.
There's a certain amount of racism here. We are concerned about the Mexican border or about who's coming into Florida. When is the last time anyone complained about illegal Irish immigrants? Whether we be Irish, Polish, African-American or Hispanic, we are not each other's enemies. This is a country that can continue to accept people. Rather than working three or four jobs, maybe the new immigrant can have one of those jobs.
Q. And the jobs that are lost to foreign factories?
A. If we're going to be a superpower, a morally responsible player in the world scene, then we have to recognize that we cannot exploit other people and have a safe and good world for ourselves and our sons and daughters.
What is amazing is that we have a sneaker that costs $150. The sneaker costs maybe $3 to make overseas. Where did the rest of the money go? And then I'm told I have to compete. I have to compete?
Q. Has the spread of technology shocked America's work force?
A. I come out of construction. We used to cut pipe by hand. Now we have a sophisticated computer. Today, a machinist doesn't even get his or her hands dirty.
We as workers need to recognize change is coming. We had an Industrial Revolution; I believe we are living in a time that is even more dramatic. I believe if you don't change and you don't grow, you die.
Q. Does the A.F.L.-C.I.O. contribute to political campaigns?
A. We give $30,000 to $40,000 to state legislators' campaigns. The national supports congressional candidates. Indirect is what we do. Our members, that's where we believe our strength is. We get people out to the picnics, phone banking, we direct mail to our members, talk to them about the issues, about the candidates. That's a major expenditure and effort. In our system you have to do that. There's an education process that's representative government.
Q. Sometimes laid off unionized workers take jobs without any pension or health benefits. How is this changing the culture?
A. They will become a major burden on a future society. When all these people have no pensions, no whole health and they reach 65 they will have to survive on whatever is left of Social Security. These people will all become a burden on society.
Q. What is your position on affirmative action?
A. Affirmative action helped the majority because 51 percent of the people who are entitled to some kind of a look under affirmative action are women, the majority. Affirmative action is just another tool being misused to divide people, blame people, instead of moving us forward.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Olsen, head of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O., says "I want fairness and I'm not finding it." (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY (54%); AFL-CIO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); DISMISSALS (65%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: OLSEN, JOHN W; POLK, NANCY RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



2 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Ideas From Aspiring Eagle Scouts

BYLINE: By LEONARD FELSON 

 BODY:
ABOUT three years ago, Patrick Shaw, a Boy Scout from Troop 170 in Farmington who was working on his Eagle rank, decided to do something a little different from what most Scouts do for the top honor. He solicited donations of thousands of toiletry items, assembled them into more than 400 personal care kits, and gave them to homeless people staying at St. Elizabeth House in Hartford.
A newspaper columnist at The Hartford Courant wrote about Mr. Shaw's project, and the next day, he said, he got 38 calls from people who were touched by his effort and wanted to know how they could help. 
 A woman, once homeless in England, heard a report on WTIC-AM radio, walked over to the shelter and asked how she could help.
And at his troop's base in the Unionville section of Farmington, the link between one suburban Boy Scout and the city homeless shelter strengthened, as other Scouts and their parents began to visit St. Elizabeth House.
"You realize these people are just in hard times. They could easily be one of us," said Bill Benson, the Scoutmaster of Troop 170.
Two more Scouts, working for the Eagle rank, decided they too wanted to make a difference at St. Elizabeth House.
Erik Perotti got merchants to donate a sound system and tape recording equipment to the shelter so he and his fellow Scouts could produce a tape library for shelter residents learning to read and write as part of the self-help program.
Ben Sands organized a speaker's bureau, training and sending out fellow Scouts to speak to 15 other troops, educating their members about the issues of homeless people.
Troop 170 was becoming known as the group with a social conscience. Then last year, Georges Dossot, yet another member and Eagle Scout candidate, proposed tending a summer garden plot with help from other Scouts and their families, and donating the produce to St. Elizabeth's soup kitchen. He wrote letters to garden centers, asking for donated plants and garden supplies, and then in early May last year, 20 Scouts and adults gathered to till the soil and plant donated seedlings on a 2,500-square-foot plot at the town's Kolp Community Gardens on what is otherwise known as the Farmington Flats.
By September, Mr. Dossot and his volunteers had harvested 1,500 pounds of produce, and according to the Scouts' records, put in 450 hours of donated time. His project won recognition; the Vermont-based National Gardening Association selected it among 1,400 gardening projects nationwide to receive the 1996 Youth Garden Grant.
Like Patrick Shaw's toiletry kit project, Mr. Dossot's effort inspired others to think of ways to help the Hartford homeless shelter. Early last winter, Brandon Mulcunry, seeing the need for food at the shelter, decided to take on twice as much garden space as Mr. Dossot had tended. He also decided to grow everything from seed, getting help from a Famington High School plant science teacher, Jim Waldinger, and his students who tended the seedlings in a school greenhouse.
Again, donations were sought this time from seed companies including Burpee; Comstock, Ferre & Company, and Hart. Fertilizer companies and other merchants also pitched in, so that by the end of May, Mr. Mulcunry and his group were ready to plant 480 tomato plants, 440 pepper plants, 180 eggplants, 68 butternut squash plants, 26 summer squash and 16 cucumber plants, to name a few.
With Eagle projects requiring 100 hours of community service, most of the Farmington Scouts' projects exceeded 400 hours, and Mr. Mulcunry's had reached 408 by spring planting time. The troop itself averages about 2,500 hours of time donated to community projects, including such jobs as cleaning up areas around the First Church of Christ in Unionville, where the troop holds its regular meetings.
By mid-July, Mr. Mulcunry and his helpers had already harvested more than 200 pounds of squash, zucchini, beans, herbs and beets.
To insure that the tomatoes, for example, that soon will be ripe, don't go to waste, Paul T. Laffin, the associate director of St. Elizabeth House, asked for and got a yes from the executive chef of the Goodwin Hotel in downtown Hartford to process them so they can be frozen or processed into sauce for pasta.
"The impact one person has begun to make -- the seeds they have planted in more ways than one -- is a dream come true," said Mr. Laffin, referring to Mr. Mulcunry and the other members of Troop 170. Mr. Laffin said if the harvest brings in too much food for the soup kitchen, Foodshare, a Hartford regional agency serving 180 antihunger agencies, will gladly take the overflow.
"When you stop to think, this kid," Mr. Laffin said about Mr. Mulcunry, "through his excitement, has mobilized over 100 people in this endeavor. It's been one of the most exciting events in terms of suburban-urban connections that I've ever been involved with."
Mr. Mulcunry said he simply expanded on the work of his fellow Scout, Georges Dossot, which he helped out on, just as Mr. Dossot is helping Mr. Mulcunry this year.
As Scoutmaster Benson put it, "The kids become the role models for other kids."
In Unionville, as in most Scouting areas, Eagle candidates for years undertook traditional community service projects like restoring nature trails or reclaiming an area that had flooded along Route 4.
"Then somewhere along the line, we said to each other, 'It's too bad we can't do anything in the city,' " recalled Mr. Benson.
Though the Scouts and the troop leaders were quick to help "when the basket gets passed around in church," Mr. Benson said, "we could never put our hands on how we could do something meaningful" in a city on which many suburban residents depend for jobs and relative economic security. People from his area, Mr. Benson said, "drive into Hartford with their windows rolled up and then back to suburbia and their insulated existence."
It was John Shaw, an assistant Scoutmaster in Farmington and a dentist who had a practice not far from St. Elizabeth House in Hartford, who got in touch with Mr. Laffin, the homeless shelter official, and whose son Patrick undertook the toiletry kits project.
During a Court of Honor ceremony last April in which Mr. Dossot was formally invested as an Eagle Scout, Mr. Laffin spoke about planting seeds and the fruit that would continue to sprout for years to come as a result of the Scouts' actions.
Mr. Benson said the Scouts "have achieved things we never believed would be achieved and the caliber and quality of projects are becoming normal operations here."
Said Dr. Shaw, "It's been one meaningful project followed by others. It's been immensely uplifting. It raises our expectations of ourselves as adults."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brandon Mulcunry, 13, of Unionville and a Hartford homeless shelter director, Paul Laffin, harvesting produce. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ST ELIZABETH HOUSE (HARTFORD, CONN); BOY SCOUTS ST ELIZABETH HOUSE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST ELIZABETH HOUSE (HARTFORD, CONN); BOY SCOUTS ST ELIZABETH HOUSE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; SOUP KITCHENS; GARDENS AND GARDENING YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); GARDENING (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); WRITERS (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (72%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (66%); 

PERSON: FELSON, LEONARD BRANDON MULCUNRY (85%); PAUL T LAFFIN (67%); GEORGES DOSSOT (65%); PATRICK SHAW (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



3 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 22; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: CLASSICAL MUSIC;
Is There a Composer in the House? Not Always

BYLINE: By K. ROBERT SCHWARZ; K. Robert Schwarz is the author of "Minimalists."

 BODY:
FOR MORE THAN A DECADE, mysterious figures have lurked on the margins of American musical organizations, especially symphony orchestras. Their duties may be precisely delineated or barely defined, their power substantial or illusory, their achievement lasting or transient. Though rarely seen in public, they may be trotted out when their presence is useful. They go by several names, the most common being composer-in-residence.
The title summons the image of a composer ensconced backstage, furiously churning out scores to be set before the public. But what do composers-in-residence actually do? 
 Generally, they play a role in programming and advise on matters related to new music. And given the atmosphere of artistic conservatism and fiscal caution that pervades most American musical institutions, they perform an awkward balancing act. They must mediate between their own desire to champion the new, and the tendency of artistic administrators and music directors to stick with the old. They must gain the trust of suspicious audiences by introducing fare that neither panders nor alienates. They must argue the case for the living composer without being troublemakers.
As young as the breed is, it is already dwindling. With the start of a new concert season, Tania Leon, who was once a composer fellow of the New York Philharmonic, remains in the position of new-music adviser, and Ellen Taaffe Zwilich begins the second year of a three-year appointment to the composer's chair at Carnegie Hall. But Bernard Rands has left the Philadelphia Orchestra after a particularly long tenure of seven years as composer-in-residence, although he continues to hold similar positions at the Aspen Music Festival and the Tanglewood Music Center.
American orchestras began to retain composers on their payrolls only in the 1980's. New American music had become increasingly rare in orchestral programs and was often viewed as an unwelcome guest, perhaps tolerated but not encouraged.
"There were few opportunities for composers in the orchestral world, and especially for younger composers," said John Duffy, the former director of Meet the Composer, an organization that advocates on behalf of living American composers and seeks to make them integral parts of their communities. "Most younger composers felt that the orchestra was hopelessly out of reach, so instead they wrote electronic or chamber works. That was not a healthy musical situation."
In 1982, Meet the Composer, under Mr. Duffy's leadership, initiated an ambitious 10-year plan to place composers in residence with major American orchestras and raised the money to make the idea a reality. Suddenly, many orchestras sprouted composers, some of whom played highly visible roles. In New York, Jacob Druckman worked with the Philharmonic and its music director, Zubin Mehta, to develop a series of summer festivals called Horizons. In San Francisco, John Adams enjoyed a warm relationship with Edo de Waart, the symphony's music director; the results included a "New and Unusual Music" series and two of Mr. Adams's most significant orchestral works.
Through the program, composers gained a foothold in the American orchestral world and began to sense new opportunities.
"Because there were composers-in-residence with most major orchestras," Mr. Rands said, "composers in general began to feel that there was someone in the institution who advocated on their behalf, someone with direct access to the music director. And if one looked at programming over the last 15 years, one would see a marked increase in the commissioning and performance of new scores."
In 1992, Meet the Composer's financing ran out. "The program was designed to self-destruct," Mr. Duffy said. "If after 10 years the orchestra didn't have a line item in its budget for a composer, then the residency would end. The idea was that the orchestras would care enough to carry on the program themselves."
But of the 21 major orchestras who participated in the original residency project, only 6 still have composers-in-residence. Some simply dropped the position when they were forced to pay for it. Others, like the Philadelphia Orchestra, maintained it for several years but eventually eliminated it for budgetary reasons. Still others, like the New York Philharmonic, have redefined and retitled the position, reducing its influence.
Perhaps no Meet the Composer residency was more influential than Druckman's four-year stint with the Philharmonic. From 1983 to 1986, he coordinated four Horizons festivals, which attracted sizable audiences and called attention to a rising neo-Romanticism in American music.
Druckman was succeeded by David Del Tredici, and the Philharmonic, in a powerful gesture of support for new music, celebrated its 150th anniversary in 1992 by commissioning 36 American works. (Only 25 have so far been performed.) But Mr. Del Tredici's successor, Ms. Leon, is now called new-music adviser, not composer-in-residence, and the change involves more than semantics.
"The major difference is that in the fellowship under which Tania was engaged, there was no promise or guarantee that works by the composer would be played or commissioned," said Welz Kauffman, the artistic administrator of the Philharmonic. Ms. Leon's position, financed by the Philharmonic, includes most of the tasks composers-in-residence typically perform: sifting through scores, offering advice on repertory and taking part in public events that relate to new music.
"It was my understanding in conversations with the management and the music director that they were in fact going to perform Tania's work, and that she would play a central role in advising Kurt Masur," Mr. Duffy said. "Now they have an outstanding composer who has very little input."
Ms. Leon discusses her role with the caution of a seasoned diplomat.
"Organizations hire composers-in-residence intending to find a solution, yet the infrastructure of the institution is tied to a mode of operation that approaches change in a very cautious way," she said. "As far as the nature of this residency, I thought that a real partnership could be created, that by uniting ideals and actions we could revive an appreciation for the contributions of our composers. But it seems to me that I am a dreamer, and my dreams are clouded with big ideals."
In any case, the Philharmonic has at least retained a composer on its staff in some capacity. Other orchestras, like the Philadelphia, have failed to do so, citing fiscal problems.
"This is a tragedy," Mr. Rands said. "Every orchestra can afford a composer-in-residence, no matter what the economic situation. They cannot afford not to have one. It seems to me that the cost of one more back-desk violinist is not relevant when compared with the broad involvement that a creative position can bring. But my departure coincided with some financial crunch, and in a panic response the position was eliminated."
Joseph Kluger, the president of the Philadelphia Orchestra, sees the issue in more practical terms. "We were facing a need to reduce expenses next year in order to balance our budget. When we got together to decide which painful cuts to make, we felt that this one could be made without compromising a primary objective, the continued performance of contemporary music."
Others will now divide the task of choosing which new works to perform, Mr. Kluger explained. "It's going to require more work from our staff, from our maestro, Wolfgang Sawallisch, and from our guest conductors. But as one of the senior orchestras in this country, we think we'll be able to make some kind of selection process."
With public and private support for musical institutions declining, the orchestra's decision is understandable. To a financially strapped organization, a composer-in-residence may seem an unaffordable luxury. But some see other motives.
"I am fairly skeptical about the excuse that it's a financial decision," said Catherine Wichterman, the director of Meet the Composer. "The total amount spent on a composer-in-residence could be wiped out by the engagement of one guest artist. The real issues have to do with marketing. If you have a conservative board of directors, a staff that doesn't specialize in contemporary music and a music director who isn't American and doesn't do much new work, the elimination of the composer becomes the expedient thing to do."
As orchestras retrench, the composer-in-residence will become an increasingly endangered species. But a new model is offered by projects like Carnegie Hall's composer's chair. Ms. Zwilich is its first occupant, and she exudes an optimism rare among orchestral composers.
"The main reason I agreed to do this is that I'm considered primarily a composer, and this was understood by the Carnegie administration," she said. "I'm not going to turn into an administrator."
Indeed, Ms. Zwilich has been offered three major commissions, all of which will receive their premieres at Carnegie Hall. This season she will moderate "Making Music," a new series of composer conversations in Weill Recital Hall, and next season she will direct a professional training workshop for young composers.
But she is spared some of the problems resident composers face in orchestras. "The orchestra residencies are in a context where you have a music director, and it's a very different situation if there is a conductor who is the final authority on what music is done," Ms. Zwilich said. "The major role of the composer-in-residence is to bring contemporary music to the attention of the music director, which involves wading through tons of scores. I didn't feel that was right for me."
Undoubtedly the job of composer-in-residence, as envisioned by Meet the Composer, could be all-consuming. Mr. Druckman became so involved with Horizons festivals that he missed the deadline for submission of his opera "Medea" to the Metropolitan Opera, which, partly as a result, canceled its commission.
No matter how idealistic the residencies may have been, they often worked. The proof lies in much music that would otherwise never have been written, performed or recorded.
"All the work that went into this program, the foundation that was built by composers and managers and music directors, is now left to wither," Mr. Duffy said. "Without living composers, the orchestras will be threadbare. They may have money, they may have high culture, but they will lack soul."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ellen Taaffe Zwilich, above, represents a new model at Carnegie Hall; Tania Leon, right, is a remnant
of the old model
at the New York Philharmonic-- Providing advice on matters related to new music. (Michael Provost/KMI; Steve J. Sherman/Carnegie Hall); Bernard Rands--Not replaced on his departure from Philadelphia. (Ed Wheeler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; FINANCES CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (54%); 

PERSON: SCHWARZ, K ROBERT ELLEN TAAFFE ZWILICH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



4 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Q&A: Thomas F. Egan;
Beating a Drum for the State University

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
THOMAS F. EGAN of Rye did not go to the State University of New York. Neither do about 115,000 other New York college and graduate students each year, and Mr. Egan, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University, wants to do something about this.
Appointed to the unpaid position last year by Gov. George E. Pataki, Mr. Egan has made a top priority of promoting the 64-campus State University system, which has 400,000 students and almost 70,000 employees. The strategy: improve the system, let people know about it and expect students to enroll. 
 Mr. Egan has previously served as the Westchester representative on the Board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and chairman of its Metro-North Committee. An investment banker, he is a former member of the board of trustees of Marymount College in Tarrytown. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with him:
 
 Q. Your position is unpaid as was the post on the M.T.A. Why do you do this?
A. My father did it, and he had a very wonderful life and gave me a great example. I think public service is a privilege. Since I had some experience already with a private college, I thought being involved with the State University system would be a great privilege.
 
 Q. Why when you were a college student and a New Yorker did you not attend the State University?
A. I didn't know much about it when I was getting out of high school. My guidance counselor and others I knew didn't know much about it. I never really considered it, although my younger brother graduated from Purchase College. I went to Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass.
 
 Q. Do people now know what the State University of New York is?
A. It's getting better and better, but it's an area that needs to be improved upon. We have about 115,000 New Yorkers who leave New York to pursue higher education and graduate education in other states. It's an area that I've asked our board of trustees to pay close attention to because it's an area I think we can improve on. I understand why a lot of students want to go to Harvard or Yale, M.I.T. and all those wonderful places, but I have a hard time understanding why New Yorkers will bypass many of our fine institutions of the State University to go to Penn State, the University of Connecticut, the University of Vermont, the University of Rhode Island or the University of Maryland. Their tuitions exceed $10,000 to $14,000 for New Yorkers; we can offer New Yorkers a tuition of $3,400.
I would like very much to see our State University educate more students than they currently do. I think our campuses have an average size of about 5,000 students. The national average for a higher education campus is 9,000. We have excess capacity at a number of our campuses throughout our system.
 
 Q. Apart from the question of fiscal concerns, why should someone care that so many New Yorkers are going out of state?
A. There is a tendency by college students to settle and pursue their livelihood in areas near where they go to college. If they go elsewhere, we are going to lose those New Yorkers to other states as productive, tax-paying citizens. The economy and the cultural life of our state is impacted.
 
 Q. Is New York not getting an equal number of out-of-state students coming here?
A. A lower amount. The State University currently has about 3 percent of its student population coming from outside of New York. Chancellor John Ryan, who is our new interim chancellor -- who was the chancellor at Indiana University from 1971 to 1987 -- tells me that about 30 percent of the Indiana University student body comes from outside of the state. We in New York can do a lot better than what we're doing in terms of importing out-of-state students as well as a better job of retaining a lot of New Yorkers who go out of state.
 
 Q. Why not consolidate campuses, if there is so much excess capacity?
A. That's a good question. The question is how do you go about doing that. We are doing something with regard to our colleges of technology. We have six now, one in Farmingdale and then five others upstate. We're looking at a strategic alliance to look at ways to share administrative costs and reduce overhead and to try to bring some uniformity to the various course offerings.
 
 Q. Is there a point at which serious consideration will be given to consolidating campuses?
A. That could come at a later date, but what we want to do first is give campuses an opportunity of more self-determination. Right now campuses are, I think, over-regulated and held back in many respects at achieving their full potential. Let me give you some specific examples: until legislation that was just passed, campuses were not allowed to carry funds forward in their operating budgets.
In other words, at the end of the fiscal year if they had any money left over in their budget they were required to give it back to the state instead of using it for something else on the campus. It doesn't take a lot of imagination to understand there is not much of an incentive there to use your money in the most prudent fashion. So we got the Governor and the State Legislature to support changing that policy so campuses can carry leftover funds forward from year to year.
Another item is campus-based tuition. All campuses in the college and center sectors -- that would be the 13 university colleges and the 4 university centers -- are required to charge exactly the same tuition, even though their cost structures will vary. A university center may cost $11,000 to $12,000 to educate a student, yet the tuition is $3,400, whereas at a university college, such as at Oneonta or New Palz, it may be $7,000 to $8,000 to educate.
 
 Q. Would you also charge more for the campuses that are in demand?
A. Or less. They can base it on how well they prepare their course offerings, and they may get more students by charging less. They have to figure out how to best set their tuitions within certain ranges. In 40 other states the State University is permitted to have varying tuition. We are prohibited from that, but we are asking the Legislature to amend that law. What they did do was create the commission to study the issue.
 
 Q. If it could be done -- to lead New York's university system into the front ranks of American public education -- how many years would it take?
A. I don't know. But I do know it's not a question of how great the taxpayer subsidy is that makes a great state university. Our state taxpayers' subsidy is about 37 percent. This means that 37 percent of all costs of the system are paid by state tax revenues. This is $1.5 billion of the $4.2 billion budget. What are we getting for that? We're getting a system that is good but not in the front ranks of American public higher education. It is not considered, as I understand it, of the quality of a Michigan, Virginia or a Texas or a California. Let's look at those states and the portion of their state revenues that support their university systems.
In all of those states, the university systems are under 30 percent reliant on taxpayer money. Where do they come up with their money? They have endowments and other sources of income.
You can have a great state university and not have a high reliance on tax subsidies. You have to have high academic standards. You have to have outstanding faculty. And you attract the best students you can possibly attract while still making education available and accessible to any New Yorker who is academically qualified, regardless of whether they are at the top of scholastic aptitude or something less. You have to have not just quality -- but the perception of quality to get those kinds of things. Quality attracts quality. Our state university has pockets of excellence, but it needs to be more widespread and better publicized.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas F. Egan, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York, at his home in Rye. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: WORCESTER, MA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); 

PERSON: GREENE, DONNA; EGAN, THOMAS F EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



5 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 20; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: In Hanoi, an Austere Film Diet

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam

 BODY:
Almost no one in Vietnam has seen "Cyclo," the stunning but violent new movie about the underbelly of life in Ho Chi Minh City, filmed by a Vietnamese director who lives in France. But then, very few people here have seen any Vietnamese films lately.
"Cyclo," which was shown last year at the New York Film Festival and won top honors at the Venice Film Festival, opens in New York next month. But Vietnamese authorities have not allowed the film to be shown in this country -- even though it was filmed with their cooperation -- because, they say, it is not a true picture of life in Vietnam. 
 Their stance seems mainly symbolic. Even if it were shown, hardly anybody would be able to see it. There are only a handful of movie theaters in the country, and they are so small and uncomfortable, and the quality of their equipment is so poor, that they are mostly empty.
With the decline in moviegoing in recent years, Vietnamese audiences have turned instead to videos, many of them pirated American products, which they can rent cheaply and watch at home. Some of the most popular stars here, according to one film critic, are Julia Roberts, Jack Nicholson, Mel Gibson, Jodie Foster and Tom Cruise, even though their films are not officially imported.
Local film makers must fend for themselves, with little Government support, since Vietnam has opened its economy to market forces over the past half decade. Fewer than a dozen new films are made here each year, and many of these are low-budget "instant noodle" comedies or romances that make a desperate grab for public attention.
A major difference between Vietnamese and Western films, according to the critic Ngo Phuong Lan of the English-language Asian film quarterly Cinemaya, is that "Western film makers have an audience, but ours do not."
This month, 11 of the more serious Vietnamese films will find a small audience abroad. The Toronto International Film Festival, which begins on Thursday, will offer a selection of works by some directors who struggled against tight budgets and public indifference to capture Vietnamese society with depth and sensitivity.
Sometimes the Vietnam War, which here is called the "American war," is at the center of the story. Most of the films about the war to be shown in Toronto date from the 1980's. Dang Nhat Minh's "When the 10th Month Comes" (1984) explores the pain of a war widow. "The Retired General" (1988), directed by Nguyen Khac Loi, describes the unhappy homecoming of a war hero. "Black Cactuses" (1993), made by Le Dan, portrays the racism faced by the children of black American soldiers and Vietnamese women.
But many of the films are about daily life in Vietnam. Of the new films that will be shown at Toronto, the most highly praised is "Nostalgia for the Countryside," directed by Mr. Minh. (The film was also shown at the Sundance Film Festival this year.) It is a sentimental exploration of the beauty and hardships of rural life (offering a few familiar truths) and echoes much of what was said on the subject at a Communist Party Congress in early July in Ho Chi Minh City.
The film revolves around a woman who, as a child, fled her village for America, found only loneliness there and then returned but failed to find the idyllic rural life of her memories. Yes, she tells a young man, there is a river like this one in America, "but it's cold."
Then, watching a farmer labor, she says, "It's pleasant work."
The farmer replies: "That's because you don't work in the fields. Our work is hard and dirty."
The final word is given to the local schoolmaster, who says: "The city's greed is destroying the countryside. We exploit the peasants. They bear the sacrifices, but nobody looks out for them."
In an interview, Mr. Minh, the director, said that although he had grown up in a city, he found the "real Vietnam" in its villages. "That's the reality of today," he said, "the growing distance between life in the city and the countryside. In the Congress there was a lot of study of this problem. I am an artist, and I feel it like an artist. These subjects touch me deeply."
Miss Lan, the film critic, said it was because "Cyclo" did not portray the real Vietnam that it had not been shown here. A noisy, jagged film by Tran Anh Hung that deals with gangs, drugs and prostitution, "Cyclo" gives a picture of Vietnam that is not the official one and, indeed, is farther from the truth of the country today than "Nostalgia for the Countryside" is.
But even Miss Lan acknowledged its power. "I think 'Cyclo' is not a Vietnamese film, even though it talks about Vietnamese life," she said. "I think it is a great film -- very, very interesting and artistically brilliant. We know Hung very well, and when he came here we helped him shoot this film. I told him the same thing, that his film was not Vietnamese, and he seemed to agree."
Mr. Hung's earlier movie, "The Scent of Green Papaya" (1993), which was nominated for an Oscar and also played at the New York Film Festival, is a gentler, more lyrical film, one about a serving girl to a wealthy family in the 1950's in Saigon. "The Scent of Green Papaya" was warmly embraced in Vietnam by critics like Miss Lan, though it was not shown publicly.
Do Duy Anh, an official with the Government's Vietnam Cinema Department, insisted that the tougher "Cyclo" had not been banned. He said Mr. Hung had sent a video, which a small circle of film officials and critics had seen, but that he had never actually asked that it be shown here.
If he had, it would have gone before the Government's board of censors, and it seems unlikely that it would have been approved. Mr. Minh, writing in Cinemaya in 1992, defined the the censors' job. "The Review Committee keeps a strict check on content to ensure that the prestige of the Party or the State is not affected," he wrote. "The idea that cinema and other cultural manifestations must aim at strengthening the people's faith in the regime is still a guiding principle."

M R. ANH SAID THAT ALthough critical themes like corruption and poverty were allowed, Vietnam's censors would not permit violence, sex or "films that damage the policies of the Government and Party, films that turn Vietnam against another country or films that demean the morals of society."
Given the dynamics of the marketplace here, more Vietnamese may see American films about the war (which circulate on pirated videos) than Vietnamese films. And this may not even displease the censors.
It would be hard to make films that reflect more anguish about the American role here than "Platoon" and "Born on the Fourth of July" did, two movies that Miss Lan said were popular among local audiences.
And although it most assuredly does not depict the real Vietnam, she said, "Apocalypse Now" is "a good American film about Vietnam."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tran Nu Yen Khe in "Cyclo"--Violent, jagged and definitely not acceptable in Ho Chi Minh City. (Film Society of Lincoln Center); Thuy Huong in the film "Nostalgia for the Countryside." (Toronto Film Festival)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (90%); FRANCE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES; TORONTO INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); BUDGETS (69%); MILITARY BENEFITS (63%); RACE & RACISM (62%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH TOM CRUISE (58%); JULIA ROBERTS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



6 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Residential Resales

 BODY:
In the following reports, the "listed at" price is the asking price when negotiations began that ended in the sale. Time on market is from most recent listing to contract.
 
MANHATTAN
 
CHELSEA $176.500
155 West 20th Street
1-bedroom, 1-bath, 850-sq.-ft. co-op in a prewar Art Deco building: dining area, sunken living room, windowed kitchen, 2 exposures; maintenance $537, 55% tax-deductible, listed at $199,000, 2 weeks on market (Broker: D.G. Neary)
 
UPPER WEST SIDE $762,500
2109 Broadway (74th St.)
(Ansonia)
3-bedroom, 4-bath, 2,550-sq.-ft. prewar condo; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, dining room, fireplace, 3 exposures; common charge $1,498; taxes $4,668, listed at $977,000, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Corcoran Group)
 
WEST SIDE $945,000
160 West 66th Street
(3 Lincoln Center)
2-bedroom, 3-bath, 1,978-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, dining ell, Hudson River view; common charge $1,174; taxes $3,062, listed at $945,000, 35 weeks on market (Broker: Corcoran Group)
 
WEST VILLAGE $425,000
167 Perry Street
2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,408-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, dining room, 2 fireplaces, terrace, roof deck; maintenance $1,295, 50% tax-deductible, listed at $445,000, 26 weeks on market (Broker: Debra Kameros)
 
BRONX
 
CASTLE HILL $139,000
2277 Cincinnatus Avenue
3-bedroom, 1-bath, 37-year-old ranch; dining room, 4-car driveway, 50- by 100-ft. lot; taxes $1,416, listed at $139,900, 26 weeks on market (Broker: Heritage First Realty/Better Homes & Gardens)
 
BROOKLYN
 
BEDFORD-STUYVESANT $275,000
246 Gates Avenue
6-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 5-story brick Queen Anne built in 1886; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 8 fireplaces, parquet floors, original moldings and detail; taxes $1,104, listed at $295,000, 6 weeks on market (Broker: Realty on the Greene)
 
PARK SLOPE $495,000
426 5th Street
3-bedroom, 1 full- and 2 half-bath legal 2-family brownstone being used as a single family residence; dining room, fireplace, front and rear parlor; 17.9- by 100-ft. lot; taxes $1,400, listed at $495,000, 1 week on market (Broker: F.J. Kazeroid)
 
WINDSOR TERRACE $325,000
550 16th Street
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 95-year-old attached brick house; dining room, eat-in kitchen, enclosed front porch, finished basement, stained-glass windows, parquet floors; taxes $1,413, listed at $335,000, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Warren Lewis)
 
QUEENS
 
FOREST HILLS $325,000
6825 Fleet Street
3-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 56-year-old brick house; dining room, eat-in kitchen, hospitality suite in finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $2,260, listed at $349,000, 6 weeks on market (Broker: F.H. Realty Executives)
 
REGO PARK $415,000
66-54 South Selfridge Street
2-family, 25-year-old, brick house; 3 bedrooms, 1 1/2 baths, eat-in kitchens in each unit; 2-bedroom hospitality suite on first floor; 30- by 125-ft. lot; taxes $5,000, listed at $459,000, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Kingdom Real Estate)
 
STATEN ISLAND
 
TODT HILL $415,000
601 Ocean Terrace
3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 65-year-old tudor; dining room, eat-in kitchen, family room, fireplace, 1-car garage, 100- by 121 ft. lot; taxes $3,000, listed at $448,000, 50 weeks on market (Broker: Vitali-Sunshine)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
ELMWOOD PARK $125,000
145 17th Avenue
2-bedroom, 1-bath, 40-year-old Cape Cod; c/a, 1-car garage, h/w floors, dining room; taxes $2,999, listed at $132,900, 1 week on market (Broker: Century 21 Property Place)
 
MAHWAH $201,000
1055 Ash Road
3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 6-year-old town-house condo; 1-car garage, c/a, eat-in-kitchen, fireplace; monthly maintenance $120, taxes $2,595, listed at $212,400, 7 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential Higgins)
 
NORTHVALE $185,000
319 Scharer Avenue
3-bedroom, 2-bath, 60-year-old colonial; porch, w/w carpeting, full basement, new kitchen; taxes $3,200, listed at $189,900, 2 weeks on market (Brokers: Murphy Better Homes and Gardens; Prudential Higgins)
 
PENNINGTON $220,000
6 West Franklin Avenue
4-bedroom, 1-bath, 90-year-old colonial; full finished basement and attic, h/w floors, wraparound porch; taxes $4,208, listed at $239,500, 5 months on market (Broker: Richard A. Weidel)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
DARIEN $710,000
16 Dogwood Lane
3-bedroom, 3-bath, 40-year-old colonial ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 2 fireplaces, exercise room, 2-car garage, 1.35-acre lot; taxes $6,062, listed at $725,000, 20 weeks on market (Brokers: Kelly Associates; Country Living)
 
GREENWICH $1.35 million
27 Baldwin Farms South
6-bedroom, 5 full- and 2 half-bath, 23-year-old French Provincial-style house; study off master suite, eat-in kitchen, den, au-pair suite, family room, 2 fireplaces, 2-car garage, 2.19-acre lot with pond; taxes $12,228, listed at $1.4 million, 7 weeks on market (Brokers: Coldwell Banker/Greenwich; Preferred Properties)
 
NORWALK $207,500
2 Cider lane
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 38-year-old ranch; family room, enclosed porch, remodeled kitchen, brick fireplace, 1-car garage, .30 acre; taxes $3,026, listed at $213,900, 6 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential Connecticut)
 
WESTPORT $347,500
11 Driftway Lane
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, cedar-shingled house; dining room, fireplace, playroom, fenced-in corner lot, 1-car garage; taxes $3.018, listed at $385,000, 20 weeks on market (Brokers: Preferred Properties; William Raveis)
 
WESTCHESTER
 
PELHAM $510,000
22 Priory Lane
4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 36-year-old contemporary; modern eat-in kitchen, circular driveway, .5 acre; taxes $17,035, listed at $569,000, 1 year, 9 months on market (Broker: Prudential Stiefvater)
 
POUND RIDGE $680,000
252 East Stone Hill
5-bedroom, 3-bath, 17-year-old colonial; dentil moldings, California room, slate terrace, heated 2-car garage; 6 acres; taxes $10,396, listed at $745,000, 26 weeks on market (Brokers: Randolph Properties; Houlihan/Lawrence)
 
WHITE PLAINS $265,000
7 Commerce
4-bedroom, 2-bath, 39-year-old Cape Cod; tiled entry, modern eat-in kitchen, family room, deck, attached 2-car garage; taxes $5,556, listed at $278,000, 13 weeks on market (Brokers: Coldwell Banker Schlott; Century 21 Wolff)
 
YONKERS $122,000
25 Parkview Avenue
2-bedroom, 2-bath, 14-year-old co-op; entry hall, fireplace, updated kitchen, dining area; maintenance $597, 50% tax deductible, listed at $126,000, 1 year, 10 months on market (Brokers: Houlihan/Lawrence; Bronxville/Ley)
 
LONG ISLAND
 
EAST ISLIP $550,000
191 The Helm
6-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 20-year-old contemporary; dining room, eat-in kitchen, fireplace, 3-car garage, 1.4 acres with 340 feet of bulkheading; taxes $19,700, listed at $619,900, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential Long Island)
 
MILLER PLACE $147,500
68 Imperial Drive
3-bedroom, 2-bath, 13-year-old ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, c/a; taxes $4,400, listed at $147,500, 11 weeks on market (Broker: ERA Manzoni)
 
OLD WESTBURY $435,000
3 Bridle Path Drive, 5-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 31-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, finished basement, fireplace, 2-car attached garage, pool, 1.97 acres; taxes $16,400, listed at $479,990, 35 weeks on market (Brokers: R.E.O. Sales; Douglas Elliman-Jane Hayes)
 
SEA CLIFF $490,000
54 Sea Cliff Avenue
5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 75-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, sunroom, finished basement, fireplace, 2-car garage; taxes $7,000, listed at $495,000, 1 week on market (Brokers: Daniel Gale McCrate; Harmonious Homes)

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Data Update" shows mortgage rates in the region and value of residential construction contracts. (Sources: HSH Associates, McGraw-Hill Information)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BETTER HOMES & GARDENS REAL ESTATE SERVICE (53%); BETTER HOMES & GARDENS BOOKS INC (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); CORCORAN GROUP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORCORAN GROUP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITIES (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (63%); 

PERSON: WINDSOR TERRACE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



7 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Services For Finding Roommates

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
DEE KING just can't seem to get a break.
When she moved east from California about four months ago, Ms. King intended to rent an apartment in Manhattan. That idea, however, was quickly dashed on the rocks of big-city reality. 
 "What pushed me over the edge was the broker's fee," she said. "I don't mind paying a broker a fee for services, but my experience is that I pay my own transportation costs and do my own legwork only to see these hideous places that don't meet my idea of decent living. And then I'm told that the broker's fee is $2,700."
Ms. King quickly abandoned her search for an apartment and turned instead in pursuit of a roommate.
"In New York City, you pretty much have to share if you make less than $60,000 a year," said the 30-something business-development consultant. "But I've seen places where I'm asked to pay $800 to sleep in the living room."
Ms. King's case, of course, is not unique. In a city where a studio apartment the size of a commuter van can cost $1,500 a month, thousands of apartments are shared by once and future strangers who have little in common but the key to their front door. And, in a city where vacancy rates are lower than interest rates on savings accounts, there are thousands of others out there looking.
"This is definitely our busiest season," said Lisa Wisely, owner of Roommates NYC in Manhattan (982-6265). "It is also the worst time of year to be looking."
Ms. Wisely's company is one of a small group of state-licensed enterprises that have carved out a niche trying to carve up living spaces for strangers.
As roommate-finding services go, Roommates NYC is about as no-frills as you can get. For $20, clients get a list of people with apartments who are looking for roommates. The initial payment also gives customers three months' worth of updates as new listings become available. Ms. Wisely's list is compiled from people who call the service to list their apartments. (There is no charge for listing.)
"We get new listings every day," Ms. Wisely said. "Most of our listing clients are not advertising in the papers."
Perhaps, but it appears that a good number of them are listing their apartments with other services.
"They all seem to have the same listings," said Ms. King, who has tried at least two services. "By the time you get to an apartment and ring the bell, eight other people are there pushing the button with you."
Another roommate service, Shares International (529-2992), obtains listings by running ads in newspapers looking for people with apartments who don't want to run ads in newspapers.
"We advertise for listings, people list their apartments with us, we take the listings and put them into a database and then we provide the database to our clients," said Giorgio Magnani, the owner of the Manhattan-based service.
For a flat fee of $95 clients are provided with a computer printout containing 250 to 270 listings, Mr. Magnani said. Updates are provided over the telephone as they arrive, he said, and they are tailored to the needs of individual clients.
The self-proclaimed "oldest" roommate-finding service is Roommate Finders (489-6860), a midtown company that has been matching haves and have-not's in New York City since 1979. For $200 the company provides one year's worth of apartment listings.
"All our applicants have to be screened in person," said Michael Santomauro, owner of the company. The screening, Mr. Santomauro said, is based on a two-page questionnaire that clients turn in with their $200 fee. The questionnaire, which helps the company to provide clients with personalized lists of available apartments, seeks information about life style, pet preferences, hobbies, education, political leanings and tolerance for all of the above.
Unlike the other services, those wishing to list available apartments pay $25.
"It's worth it," Mr. Santomauro said. "They're going to get inundated by prospective roommates."
There are times, however, when inundation is undesirable. Accordingly, at least one New York City company provides specialized services to specialized customers.
The Gay Roommate Information Network (627-4242), based in Greenwich Village, has catered to the gay community for the last 10 years.
Dan Gerstein, president of the company, said that for $39 clients were provided with a computer-generated list of available shares, broken down into categories such as "women only," "men only" and "men or women." The list also contains a brief description of the apartment and basic information about the current occupant.
"We normally have between 100 and 150 apartments available at any one time," Mr. Gerstein said. "The entire list turns over every six to eight weeks."
Even the best list of available apartments, however, offers no guarantee of success.
Most experts interviewed agree that women have an easier time -- both in finding an apartment to share and in sharing an apartment they have -- than men. The reason, it seems, is that while most men will accept women as roommates, fewer women feel the same way about sharing with men.
"Let's face it, it's healthier to live with a woman," said Mr. Santomauro of Roommate Finders. He recommends that when meeting a prospective roommate for the first time, it is prudent to do so in a public place rather than at the apartment. If the personalities click and both parties feel secure, he said, the apartment can then be inspected.
Mr. Santomauro also suggests that roommates have a written agreement setting out the terms of the sharing arrangement. (Roommate Finders will provide a form agreement at no extra charge.)
Other experts advise those seeking to share their apartments with others to obtain personal and credit references from those hoping to move in. At the same time, those looking for apartments should make sure that the person they will be moving in with has the legal right to be there in the first place.
"Ask to see their lease," said Mr. Gerstein of the service for gays. "If they appear evasive, it's probably not a good situation."
Mr. Gerstein also pointed out that receipts should be obtained for any cash that changes hands, and that those moving into an apartment should expect to pay a security deposit of one month. It is also important for everyone involved in a sharing arrangement to be on the same wavelength.
"I had one client who said he didn't like big parties," Mr. Gerstein said. "To me, a big party is 60 or 70 people. To him, it was six or seven."
Finally, if all efforts at finding a roommate through a roommate service fail, there is always another alternative.
"I put my own ad in the paper looking for other people who were looking for roommates," said Ms. King. "People are calling me now saying, 'Hey, let's look for an apartment together.' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROOMMATES NYC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROOMMATES NYC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY LISA WISELY (77%); MICHAEL SANTOMAURO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



8 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Times Square Signs;
For the Great White Way, More Glitz

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
MICKEY MOUSE is going up on 42d Street, a larger video screen will replace Sony's Jumbotron at the south end of Times Square and even the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is planning to get into the act.
Signs in the Times Square area are as numerous as any time in recent memory and gaudier than ever. With the benefit of new technology, they add glitz to an area that is rapidly losing its reputation for crime, pornography and loiterers. Indeed, the signs are required by city zoning rules that are intended to preserve the area's character as an entertainment district. 
 It is also looking less like the Ginza section of Tokyo as American companies are returning to the area and displacing some of the Japanese companies that dominated in the early 90's. With the decline in their home economy, fewer Japanese companies are eager to rent expensive real estate, and their place has been taken by apparel companies like Liz Claiborne, Levi's jeans, Tommy Hilfiger and corporate titans like AT&T.
"We've got Budweiser beer, which had not been in Times Square in 50 years," said Jeffrey Katz, the president of Sherwood Equities, which controls One Times Square and Two Times Square. The buildings -- One the empty office tower at 42d Street and Broadway (where the ball is dropped on New Year) and the other, the Ramada Renaissance hotel at 47th Street and Broadway -- are the bookends that anchor Times Square.
Mr. Katz said the Budweiser sign in place on the north end of One Times Square is temporary, and will be replaced by an animated spectacular, as they are known in the trade, to promote the beer company. The Japanese remain, of course, with a sign advertising Nissin Cup of Noodles puffing steam into the air on top of the building's prow.
The steam, by the way, comes from generators in the building, unlike the similar sign for 8 O'Clock coffee at Seventh Avenue and 46th Street with steam supplied by Consolidated Edison.
Mr. Katz said its location made the old Times Tower (the Times moved out in 1913) more useful as a billboard than an office building. "Users of office space want 30,000 square foot baseplates and this building has 5,000 square foot floors," he said. "But it is very visible, so we are going to have signs on the north end and south end and we are studying what to do with the east and west sides." Recently, a temporary sign promoting a movie was draped on the west side.
Signs can provide a very nice bit of income to a building owner; at least one rents for as much as $1.2 million a year, according to Gretchen Dykstra, president of the Times Square Business Improvement District.
The Sony Jumbotron, a 32- by 23 1/2-foot screen which went dark in June after an eight-year run, is to be replaced by a 35- by 27-foot animated screen operated by Panasonic and NBC. It will carry programming from the NBC-TV network, its Channel 4 station in New York City, other NBC ventures and public-service announcements by the city, the Times Square B.I.D. and other organizations.
He said that the intention was to lease the interior of the building to a single tenant, probably a company in the entertainment business that can make good use of the retail space on the ground floor.
(Incidentally, it is the operator of the signs on the building, Van Wagner Communications, Inc. that is responsible for preparing and dropping the ball on top of the building on New Year's Eve.)
SIGNS can change the way an area is viewed. At the north end of Times Square, the Ramada Renaissance bears several spectaculars, including a Coca-Cola bottle with a top that appears to come off, while the upper part of the sign displays alternating symbol for the soft drink and its diet version.
"Those signs at Two Times Square changed the classic orientation of the area," said Ms. Dykstra. "In the past the most common view was to the south. Now it is more to the north."
Ms. Dykstra said it was clear why advertisers were eager to pay stiff prices to have their corporate images or their products on display near Times Square. "We get 20 million tourists a year and a lot of them are carrying cameras,"she said.
"Times Square is the biggest living museum in the world," said Richard Schaps, the president of Van Wagner. "People are constantly taking pictures of each other in front of the signs. The signs are how you demonstrate that you were there."
The implication is that visitors will see the displays not only during their visit, but for years afterward in the background of the snapshots people tend to take of each other in a seemingly exotic locale.
Last week the Artkraft Strauss Sign Corporation began erecting a big sign featuring Mickey Mouse in front of where the Disney store will be situated -- west of Seventh Avenue on the south side of 42d Street. Tama Starr, president of the century-old company said there was a lot more to come.
"My entire neon shop is filled with Disney orders," she said. "They like neon." The company, which manufactures and installs signs and leases and subleases advertising space on buildings, has an agreement to do all the signs on 42d street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues.
RETAILERS and others along the now-vacant 800-foot strip are being encouraged to think creatively about their signs and, above all, avoid a common look. No mall look, please.
"The idea is to encourage chaos," said Rebecca Robertson, president of the 42d Street Development Project, the state agency in charge of the transformation of the street. "We want a cacophony of signage."
Ms. Robertson said a riot of lights and designs would evoke the raffish spirit of 42d Street and Times Square. "In the good times and bad, this has been an entertainment area since the turn of the century," she said. "We set the basic outlines, such as the level of illumination, and then let each individual tenant figure their own expression."
Eventually, the new signs will march westward to the east side of Eighth Avenue. And operators of the Port Authority bus terminal on the west side of the avenue south of 42d Street say they plan to hang signs on the open steel framing of the upper two floors where buses load and unload passengers.
Starting this spring, they expect to build a grid on the building, so displays can be attached without disrupting the ventilation function of the open framework.
"We think this is a useful place to put signage, both to generate revenues for the Port Authority and to make the area lighter and brighter," said Ernesto Butcher, director of tunnels, bridges and terminals for the bistate authority.
He said the agency had signed a agreement with Transportation Displays Inc. to market the location but that no deals had been closed as yet.
Mr. Butcher said the Port Authority was less interested in plain billboards than lighted, illustrated signs, even if they fall short of being spectaculars. "We want signs that are brightly lit and in keeping with a 'Times Square never sleeps' atmosphere," he said.
Attitudes toward signs and the Times Square area have varied over time. "When we bought the company in 1979 there were 14 signs in the area and nine of them were empty -- painted over," said Mr. Schaps. The company currently has 35 signs in in the same area, which Mr. Schaps said represented about 75 percent of the total.
Even signs that went away are coming back, even if the feature they originally advertised is not. In recent weeks, Newmark & Company, the manager of the Paramount Building at the northwest corner of West 43d Street and Broadway, announced that it would put in a new marquee to replace the one that was removed when the old Paramount Theater was closed for conversion to office space in 1964.
The brightly lit marquee will advertise a restaurant-retail-entertainment establishment to be built by Planet Hollywood International. In addition, a four sided clock near the top of the building will be restored to operating condition and a globe at the very summit will once again be illuminated.
Fashion in signs change with taste and technology, said Ms. Starr of Artkraft Strauss.
"You had a golden age in Times Square after World War I when it was the Great White Way because of all the incandescent lighting," she said. "Then there was another in the 50's based on neon. Then neon went out of fashion in the 70's. Now we are in a new golden age based on computers and new types of lighting."
"We are more sophisticated now, but the object is the same," Ms. Starr added. "It is to convey the excitement and good feeling of a theater district."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Katz of Sherwood Equities, with One Times Square behind. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); RAMADA RENAISSANCE HOTEL (54%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SIGNS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); FILM (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); BREWERIES (66%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN TOMMY HILFIGER (55%); ELISABETH 'LIZ' CLAIBORNE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



9 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Q. & A.

 BODY:

What's A 'Wrap' Mortgage?
 
Q I recently heard that wraparound mortgages are making a comeback. What are wraparound mortgages and why are they becoming more popular? . . . Adam Saventha, the Bronx.
 
 A Bruce J. Bergman, an East Meadow, L.I., lawyer who specializes in real estate finance, said that while there is no definitive evidence that wraparound mortgages are "making a comeback," there is talk in the industry that such is the case. 
 A wraparound mortgage, Mr. Bergman said, is a real estate financing device in which a property owner takes out a mortgage on real estate that is already encumbered by an existing mortgage. Under ordinary circumstances, he said, such a mortgage would be known as a "second mortgage," meaning that it is second in line behind the existing first mortgage. With a typical second mortgage, Mr. Bergman said, the borrower makes separate payments on each of the mortgages.
With a wraparound mortgage, Mr. Bergman said, the priority of the mortgages remains the same as with a second mortgage -- the existing mortgage has priority over the new one. But rather than make separate payments on each mortgage, he said, the borrower instead makes one payment for the combined amount of both mortgages to the holder of the wraparound mortgage. The holder of the wraparound mortgage then forwards the appropriate amount to the holder of the first mortgage.
For a borrower, a wraparound mortgage would be preferable to refinancing an existing mortgage if prevailing interest rates are high and the rate on the existing mortgage is low. For a lender, using a wraparound mortgage rather than an ordinary second mortgage gives the lender greater control over the borrower's mortgage payments.
It is possible, for example, for a borrower to make timely payments on a second mortgage while allowing the first mortgage to go into default - a situation that can cause problems for a second mortgage holder. With a wraparound mortgage, Mr. Bergman said, the secondary lender will at the very least be aware of the payment status of the first mortgage.
 
Rights of a Survivor On Co-op Certificate
 
 Q My sister, her husband and their son have been living in a Mitchell-Lama co-op in Manhattan. All three names are listed on the co-op stock certificate for this apartment. Recently, the son moved to his own apartment in another Mitchell-Lama co-op in Manhattan. However, his name has never been removed from his parent's stock certificate. If my sister and her husband were to pass away, would their son be eligible to move back to his parents' apartment? What can they do to insure that he can? . . . G. Wasserman, Latham, N.Y.
 
 A "Having the son added to the stock certificate means that he is also on the occupancy agreement," said Arthur I. Weinstein, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. "And that was the most important action the mother and father could have taken to assure themselves that their son will be able to move back into their apartment at any time."
Mr. Weinstein, who is also vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives, said that upon the death of the parents the son might be required to show that his income falls within the applicable Mitchell-Lama eligibility guidelines. However, his current occupancy of such a co-op indicates that he already meets those requirements. Moreover, Mr. Weinstein said, when the parents die the son may also be required to demonstrate the financial ability to pay his maintenance payments. And while the criteria to be met depend on the particular rules and procedures of individual co-ops, Mr. Weinstein said, many will waive the financial test for children of prior shareholders or for a surviving co-owner of an apartment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (52%); LAMA CO FOR DEVELOPMENT & CONTRACTING (52%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (52%); CO-OP '82 UA (52%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (52%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (52%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (52%); CO-OP STAR RT (52%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (52%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (52%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (52%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (52%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SECOND MORTGAGES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (85%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LAWYERS (73%); 

PERSON: A BRUCE J BERGMAN (90%); ARTHUR I WEINSTEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



10 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Is the Sound Being Overfished?

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER

 BODY:
THIS summer Peter Studwell's skiff has bobbed idly at a mostly empty dock area here on Long Island Sound -- breaking a family tradition for the first time in three centuries.
Earlier in the year, however, the Studwell custom of living off the water seemed destined to continue -- especially since the estuary at the outset of summer fairly brimmed with bluefish and striped bass. 
 Now the fish have all but disappeared, which is worrisome not only to Mr. Studwell, a fisherman, but also to environmentalists and state and local officials, who said good fishing in the Sound had been a long time in coming.
The concern is that commercial fishing boats are driving away bluefish and striped bass by overharvesting the bait fish, menhaden, a prime source of forage for larger fish.
"Dear Senator Oppenheimer," Mr. Studwell wrote recently, seeking help from State Senator Suzi Oppenheimer, a Democrat of Rye. "My ancestors were among the first to sail up the Byram River with the Dutch West India Company, and ever since they have been using the water to earn their livelihood in this area."
As Mr. Studwell said to Ms. Oppenheimer and other lawmakers and government officials: "It used to be so awful that there were times you could walk on sludge and never see down to the bottom of the Sound. We've worked too long and hard to get our stock back to just give up now."
After enactment of strict limitations on catching striped bass, the species finally showed up again in significant numbers in the late 1980's -- but only after millions of dollars and great efforts were spent making the water hospitable.
Restoration efforts have involved lengthy Federal studies, expensive upgrading of sewage-treatment plants and tight controls over the amount of nitrogen entering the Sound from the plants.
But the striped bass comeback was thwarted in May, about the time commercial boats from Virginia arrived in the Sound, reported fishermen along the Connecticut, Westchester and Long Island coastlines.
Joseph Pugliese, a lawyer and sport fisherman from Stamford, said it was "like someone turned off a light switch" when the menhaden boats came through this year.
The bass and bluefish feed on menhaden, also known as bunker fish, which are harvested by commercial concerns for use in animal feed, pet food and oils.
"When the bunker boats arrived, everything changed," said Anthony Saline, commodore of the Port Chester Yacht Club and a trustee of the village of Port Chester. "In May, there were plenty of fish and a lot of activity here at the club. Now maybe three or four people go out in a day."
Shrugging his shoulders, Mr. Saline continued, "The water should be bristling this time of year." He added that fishermen were finding calico crabs inside bluefish, indicating that the species was not finding sufficient forage fish.
Seeking a remedy, sport fishermen have enlisted the aid of Senator Oppenheimer, Representative Nita Lowey, Democrat of Harrison, and officials at the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
"It is impossible to dismiss the experiences of men and women who have spent their lives fishing on the Sound," said Mrs. Lowey, who has called for an investigation.
Meanwhile, Mayor Christine Korff of Port Chester, who is seeking a ban on the menhaden boats, said she hoped to organize the efforts of other municipal leaders along the Sound's shore. She said the recreational fishing business represents a large segment of many local economies -- sports shops, tackle and bait outlets, boat rental and sales companies, yacht clubs and beer distributors.
"This is not just a story about the little guys who miss their fishing," Mayor Korff said. "It is bigger than that."
But operators of the menhaden vessels say the outrage among fishermen and officials is unwarranted.
John C. Barnes 3d, vice president of Ampro Fisheries in Reedville, Va., speculated that a panic -- "without any scientific basis" -- had set in among the fishermen and was spreading. He said he does not believe reports that fishing is off.
"We've run into this before," Mr. Barnes said. "When people see a large vessel and then they don't catch fish, they blame us. We've not been in Long Island Sound half a dozen days this year."
Mr. Barnes said his company, which owns nine menhaden harvesting vessels, has voluntarily agreed to alert the New York Department of Environmental Conservation when it would be fishing in the Sound so that state enforcement agents can be on hand to make sure the company complies with regulations.
Generally, two menhaden boats, one a 176-foot steel-hulled steamer and the other a 40-foot aluminum purse seine boat, ply a single area. The smaller boat drops a purse-like net around a school of menhaden and then draws it tightly around the fish. A vacuum hose from the larger boat sucks in fish through a chute.
Besides having state permits, boat operators must stay within designated areas and release all other fish that get caught in nets intended for menhaden, said Lieut. Charles M. Nash, who works for the enforcement arm of the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
Lieutenant Nash said efforts to patrol the commercial vessels have been limited by lack of enforcement agents, but he said an attempt would be made to expand the patrolling by using volunteer sport fishermen, whom they would train to recognize infractions.
Byron H. Young, a New York State marine resource specialist, said that enlisting the aid of such anglers would give the state "more pairs of eyes watching," and he added, "If we had officers 24 hours a day, there might be more cases made, but we only have numerous reports, and for right now, they are just allegations."
Mr. Young suggested that the Sound was too fragile a body of water and too enclosed for harvesting menhaden. "This may be a special area," he said. "The western Sound is very narrow, very congested."
Mr. Barnes said the company takes no more fish than allowed by the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission, a regulatory body representing 15 coastal states. The organization uses a formula called maximum sustainable yield, which is based on the number of fish that can be harvested without killing off a species.
But James A. Donofrio, executive director of the Recreational Fishing Alliance, a newly formed organization based in New Gretna, N.J., and Washington, criticized that policy.
"It's bogus," he said. "You can't fish that tight."
Mr. Donofrio said the maximum-sustainable concept failed to take into account other variables affecting fish, like water currents and weather changes.
"Look what happened to the salmon industry in the Pacific and the ground fish industry in New England," he said, referring to fish like flounder that stay along the bottom of the water..
A bill pending in the United States Senate would introduce the concept of optimum yield and become a basic principle of the Magnuson Act, the law that governs the country's fisheries.
But local legislators like State Senator Oppenheimer suggested that the Sound might need to be governed by different principles. Saying the menhaden boats are "creating havoc with the ecosystem," she said she was considering introducing a bill in the next legislative session to limit both the size of boats and the size of the catch allowed in the estuary.
Other states, too, are wrestling with the problems caused by menhaden fishing vessels. In Ship Bottom, N.J., late last month, a commercial fishing boat's net broke, releasing thousands of dead menhaden, which later washed up on the beach, police said.
And off the coasts of New Jersey, Massachusetts and Maine, domestic fishing companies have recently teamed up with foreign ventures to harvest other types of forage fish like herring.
"I fear that about the time the public finally stands up and fights these exploitations of our forage fish, there won't be anything left," said Mr. Donofrio of the Recreational Fishing Alliance. "There is a sustainable harvest out there, but this is out of control."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Studwell of Port Chester, who is fighting against the commercial harvesting of menhaden in Long Island Sound. (Bernie Nunez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEST INDIA CO OF MERCHANT BANKERS LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND SOUND; UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ENVIRONMENT; BLUEFISH; STRIPED BASS; FISHING, SPORT; FISHING, COMMERCIAL LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); PET FOODS (76%); ANIMALS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LIVESTOCK FEED (68%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (65%); ANIMAL FOODS (64%); FINFISH FISHING (56%); SHELLFISH FISHING (55%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA; STUDWELL, PETER PETER STUDWELL (84%); SUZI OPPENHEIMER (73%); JOHN C BARNES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



11 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 6; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Is Saving Energy Out of Style?

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
ENERGY conservation is important to Robert Wiedenmann Sr., a Wallingford contractor who lives in a passive-solar house heated by burning wood and by the sun. "But I guess I'm a dying breed," he said.
The Sunwood Development Corporation, the company he owns with his son, originally specialized in energy-efficient homes, ones with extra thick insulation and passive solar panels that trap the heat from sunlight. 
 Lately, however, Sunwood's customers have shown little interest in conserving energy, choosing instead to put their money into fireplaces and kitchens rather than wall insulation or the greenhouse effect.
And, Mr. Wiedenmann said, for the last two or three years those with the money have been going in big for central air-conditioning.
The apparent disinterest in saving energy would be good news to the state's power companies, which simultaneously run energy conservation programs and marketing efforts to sell more electricity, if not for the shutdowns of all four of Connecticut's nuclear power plants this summer. That left the state with a serious shortage of generating capacity for the summer peak electric use.
Fortunately, the summer was remarkably cool, cutting way down on air-conditioning. Brownouts and rolling blackouts, which the public was warned might occur, never happened.
But the three Millstone nuclear reactors in Waterford and the Connecticut Yankee reactor in Haddam Neck, shut down for safety concerns by the Federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission, might remain closed through next summer and for years to come. The state's electric use, on the other hand, has risen steadily, year after year, hardly pausing for the recent recession.
Some electricity conservation efforts are going on. The state is preparing to raise efficiency standards in the state building code for lighting, air-conditioning and other building systems, beginning next year. Utility companies continued their offers of economic incentives to builders and building owners to promote greater efficiency.
These efforts have had some success. Fred Wajcs, manager of technical services for Northeast Utilities, estimated that the company, the state's largest, reduced demand by 400 to 500 megawatts through conservation since the 1970's.
But the company fell short of its target of 600 megawatts, and Mr. Wajcs said it reached only about 25 percent of the new construction and major renovation projects.
Although the reduced demand was helpful, it doesn't come close to making up the more than 3,000 megawatts of generating capacity from the four nuclear power plants that are closed.
No one complains that the electric efficiency requirements in the state building code are hard to meet, because they aren't, and there is no outcry for stricter standards, even with the state's current power generating difficulties.
"The building code is a minimum design standard," admitted Dan Tierney, a supervisor in the state building inspectors' office. But even if it isn't strict, it has helped save electricity, he said.
Electricity demand peaks during the summer when air-conditioning pushes up power use. According to Northeast Utilities, Connecticut's highest daily use of electricity rose from 4,708 megawatts in 1985 to 5,658 in 1995, approximately a 20 percent increase in 10 years. What utility company officials feared most this summer was a prolonged heat wave -- a week or more of successive days in the 90's -- creating heavy use of air-conditioning, spiking power demand past their ability to supply it.
The last such summer was 1991, when there were 31 days when temperatures reached 90 degrees or above at Bradley International Airport, according to the Northeast Regional Climate Center at Cornell University. Connecticut's power demand surged to record highs that summer, defying the economic recession that otherwise held power use level from 1989 to 1993.
"There's no question that the peak loads keep going up," said Beryl Lyons, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Public Utility Control.
Voluntary conservation may have helped reduce demand this summer, but not by much. Emmanuel S. Forde, a spokesman for Northeast Utilities, said Connecticut's use dropped from 27 to 26 percent of the total use in New England, which he attributed to customers responding to pleas to conserve.
Frances Mayko, a spokeswoman for United Illuminating, which serves the New Haven and Bridgeport areas, says it is hard to tell if the company's customers are really cutting back. "This summer's been cool, so it's hard to judge, but our sales are down so it may be that our customers are conserving," she said.
The utility company's conservation and incentive programs are primarily aimed at new construction or major renovations in which a large commercial or apartment building is gutted.
Dean Fiske, president of the New Haven Home Builders Association, said he participates in United Illuminating's home builder program. For exceeding building code standards for energy efficiency, his company receives rebates and his home buyers pay reduced electric rates. He said Northeast Utilities has a similar program.
These programs date to the oil shortages of the 1970's, their aim being to lower the effects on electric rates from fluctuations in oil prices and supplies. There is no effort to reduce the long-term demand for electricity. To the contrary, the utility companies have marketing programs to sell more power.
Nor has conservation been a priority for government. State and Federal support for energy conservation has virtually been eliminated, said John Ruckes, an analyst for the energy division of the state's Office of Policy and Management.
Government and utility company officials and builders all argue that they didn't cause the public's disinterest in energy conservation.
Ms. Lyons noted that business and society have steadily grown more dependent on technology, and that means higher electric demand. Over the last 10 years, she observed, there has been a huge proliferation in computers, answering machines, large-screen televisions and other electrical devices and appliances. "As technology becomes more sophisticated, we become more dependent on electricity," she said.
Electric power costs are only about 3 to 5 percent of the cost of running a commercial building, and 0.5 percent or less when salaries are included, so owners and tenants aren't concerned much about them. "The biggest concerns for building owners are location and appearance," said Mr. Wajcs.
"People don't see the benefit of 2-by-6 construction," said Mr. Fiske, referring to wall construction that adds two more inches of insulation than is required by the building code. "We build what people want."
As the environmentally conscious Mr. Wiedenmann notes, "For the time being, we seem to be heading in the other direction. More and more people are asking for central air-conditioning if they can afford it."
But he admitted that after buying his first air-conditioned car a few years ago, he now won't do without the feature.
"Could we live without air-conditioning? Sure," said Mr. Wiedenmann. "Would we choose to? No."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION; MILLSTONE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (WATERFORD, CONN); CONNECTICUT YANKEE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (HADDAM NECK, CONN) NORTHEAST UTILITIES (54%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION; MILLSTONE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (WATERFORD, CONN); CONNECTICUT YANKEE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (HADDAM NECK, CONN) NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (86%); ENERGY REGULATION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (79%); SOLAR ENERGY (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (73%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED ROBERT WIEDENMANN SR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



12 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER 

 BODY:

DARK SUN: The Making of the Hydrogen Bomb
By Richard Rhodes. Touchstone/
Simon & Schuster, $16. 
 The author begins by chronicling the events leading up to the explosion of the Soviet Union's first atomic bomb, which spurred the United States to begin a crash program to invent the even more lethal hydrogen weapon. His book is "a brilliantly rich and vivid account . . . as chilling as it is enthralling," Daniel J. Kevles said here last year.
JAPANESE BY SPRING
By Ishmael Reed. Penguin, $10.95.
Intended to offend all academic factions, this novel makes fun of the constant jockeying for position that is behind much of the supposedly political discourse at today's colleges. The book's dubious hero, a black professor and critic named Benjamin (Chappie) Puttbutt, ascends to power on his campus when his Japanese tutor takes it over. In 1993 our reviewer, Edward Hower, wrote, "This clever, outrageous novel is just the sort of weapon we need in the war against academic pedantry." Mr. Reed's earlier novel MUMBO JUMBO (Scribner Paperback, $11) has also been reissued. In this freewheeling satirical epic, he describes a plague called Jes Grew, a kind of cultural frenzy that reaches epidemic proportions, not coincidentally, during the jazz age. Writing in these pages in 1972, Alan Friedman called Mr. Reed's book "a good deal more than a novel," praising "the wild gyrations of its black comedy."
THE WINNER-TAKE-ALL SOCIETY: Why the Few at the Top Get So Much More Than the Rest of Us
By Robert H. Frank and Philip J. Cook.
Penguin, $12.95.
Economic inequality is increasing, the authors say, not because of differences in individual talents but because of competition among employers to attract a small number of high-performing individuals. This book is "a major contribution to the debate about the causes and consequences of inequality in America," Michael Lind wrote in the Book Review last year. The disparity between the haves and the have-nots is also examined in THE WAR AGAINST THE POOR: The Underclass and Antipoverty Policy, by Herbert J. Gans (Basic Books, $14). Mr. Gans believes that the labels used to define the indigent keep government from addressing the problems of poor people by implying that they deserve their condition. He "has written a prescient, clear-eyed analysis," Robert Pear said here last year.
MAZEL
By Rebecca Goldstein. Penguin, $11.95.
The title, which means "luck" in Yiddish, refers to the principle governing the life of Sasha Saunders, a Polish immigrant and grandmother who once starred on the Yiddish stage. Sasha's adventures are framed by a satire of contemporary Jewish suburbia that is "full of flash and brilliance," Lore Dickstein wrote in these pages in 1995. Jewish life is also the focus of THE ROMANCE READER, by Pearl Abraham (Riverhead, $12). Like the author, the narrator is the daughter of a Hasidic rabbi. Seduced by the world of literature, she longs for a future unbound by the strict codes of her religious upbringing. In the same review, Ms. Dickstein called this a "fine debut novel."
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: Bosnia and the Failure of the West
By David Rieff. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $12.
According to the author, the Western powers abandoned Bosnia twice: first by not instituting an effective diplomatic strategy before the war, and second by failing to intervene aggressively enough later. "In his superb book . . . he never lets his own engagement get the better of his intellectual honesty," Michael Ignatieff said in the Book Review last year.
MONKFISH MOON
By Romesh Gunesekera. Riverhead, $11.
Set in the author's native Sri Lanka, these stories unfold against the backdrop of political violence that has characterized the island's history. "The most startling aspect of this slender, evocative book is how distinct one tale proves from another," our reviewer, Suzanne Berne, wrote in 1993.
THE CHEMISTRY OF CONSCIOUS STATES:
Toward a Unified Model of the Brain and the Mind
By J. Allan Hobson. Back Bay/Little, Brown, $13.95.
Our thoughts, both sleeping and waking, are really the product of complex interactions among chemicals and cells in the brain, explains the author, a neurophysiologist. Written for the layman, this is an "intelligent and fascinating book," Hans Christian von Baeyer said in the Book Review in 1994.
GALATEA 2.2
By Richard Powers. Harper Perennial, $13.
The narrator, also named Richard Powers and also a novelist, is drawn into an intriguing experiment: to create a computer with enough intelligence and humanity to pass a set of exams in English literature. "The novel attains an aching, melancholy beauty," Robert Cohen wrote here last year.
REMEMBERING ELIZABETH BISHOP: An Oral Biography
By Gary Fountain and Peter Brazeau.
University of Massachusetts, $17.95.
Friends of the poet reveal her as an intensely driven woman whose disorderly life was balanced by the extreme precision of her art. In 1994 our reviewer, Peter S. Prescott, described the contributors as "particularly perceptive and articulate."Laurel Graeber

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (84%); LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL ALAN L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



13 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Nonfiction

BYLINE: By David C. Unger 

 BODY:

AFTER LIBERALISM
By Immanuel Wallerstein.
New Press, paper, $14.95. 
 Immanuel Wallerstein is not one of those disappointed Democrats looking to reinvent liberalism. As he sees it, liberalism, after a long run as the dominant political faith of the modern world, has fallen into terminal irrelevance with the collapse of Communism and the slowing of global economic growth. "After Liberalism," a collection of articles published between 1991 and 1995, features his analysis of the reasons for the philosophy's downfall and his case for a new progressive agenda. Mr. Wallerstein, a distinguished historian and sociologist in the Marxist tradition who teaches in Paris and at the State University of New York, Binghamton, defines liberalism as a doctrine of the center, a middle ground between socialism and conservatism. Its method is rational reform. Its premise is indefinite material progress. It is now unable to sustain its historical progress in the face of environmental and social stress, or to extend it to places like Africa, South Asia and Latin America. Mr. Wallerstein would replace liberalism with a diverse coalition of decentralized, radically democratic organizations more interested in liberating human capacities than in expanding the gross national product. At his best, Mr. Wallerstein is lucid, informed and insightful. At times, his prose lapses into turgid academese and his analysis into rigid schemata. But the book is finally redeemed by Mr. Wallerstein's intellect, honesty and surprising optimism. David C. Unger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AFTER LIBERALISM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (76%); LATIN AMERICA (67%); SOUTHERN ASIA (67%); FRANCE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (76%); LATIN AMERICA (67%); SOUTHERN ASIA (67%); FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS LIBERALISM (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LITERATURE (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HISTORY (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: UNGER, DAVID C; WALLERSTEIN, IMMANUEL IMMANUEL WALLERSTEIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



14 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Nonfiction;
Graceland in the Philippines

BYLINE: By Sarah Ferguson 

 BODY:
For rowdy American servicemen stationed in the Philippines in the early 1990's, all roads lead to Olongapo, the spilled-beer and barbecued-meat-scented Sodom that caters to their every whim. Here, at a ramshackle former movie theater renamed Graceland, two young brothers, Chester and Albert Lane, team up with Ward Wiggins, a fortyish former college professor, to perform a stunning nightly ritual, transforming the life story of Elvis Presley into a parable of birth, death and resurrection. With Chester as the romantic young punk from Tupelo, Albert as the jaded movie idol and Ward as the bloated, sequined, drug-addled Aztec Superfly, the three work their collective magic on increasingly enraptured crowds. For the Lane brothers, the show is a lark, but for Ward it's nothing less than a spiritual calling. "We were realer than real," he says, looking back. "I wasn't an impersonator. . . . I was Elvis." In his latest novel, BIGGEST ELVIS (Viking, $22.95), P. F. Kluge, the author of "Eddie and the Cruisers," writes lyrically, whether he's describing the gaudy onstage triumphs of his Elvis trinity or the crushing hardships of life around the Subic Bay naval base. And he links the stages of Big E's life to what he sees as the phases of America's identity -- a descent from vigorous pioneer nation to aging, swollen colossus. Yet as time passes, the Philippine inhabitants of Olongapo, mired in poverty and trapped in a military economy, come to see Ward, the Biggest Elvis of the book's title, as a sort of ecumenical saint and community savior; just how that happens is the subject of this dreamy, melancholy tale of economic and pop-cultural imperialism. Sarah Ferguson

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BIGGEST ELVIS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WRITERS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); LITERATURE (76%); RELIGION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); NAVIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); 

PERSON: FERGUSON, SARAH; KLUGE, P F ELVIS PRESLEY (92%); WARD WIGGINS (91%); ALBERT LANE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



15 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: RECYCLING IS GARBAGE

 BODY:
I thought you would like to know that there is a city recycling advocate in Honolulu who thinks that Tierney's article will benefit the recycling effort.
It was only a matter of time before the overenthusiastic activists, in the name of environmental preservation, pushed community recycling efforts beyond the limits of cost efficiency. 
 Well-designed recycling activity is still a smart component of a city's waste-management system. Honolulu currently recycles more than 338,000 tons of material annually, representing 22 percent of our waste stream, and we continue to expand our recycling efforts. We do not have a costly curbside collection program; nor do we push recycling where it doesn't make good economic sense. There's no crisis. Just smart planning.
 
SUZANNE JONES
Honolulu
 
Recycling Coordinator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU (HAWAII); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); HAWAII, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; JONES, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



16 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Will the Otto Kahn Palace Become a Health Spa?

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

DATELINE: COLD SPRING HILLS

 BODY:
OHEKA, a 109,000-square-foot turreted chateau set high on a manmade hill in this unincorporated area of the Town of Huntington, has known both opulence and decay.
Its original owner, the financier, Otto H. Kahn, threw lavish parties in the 1920's there for the rich and famous. When a later owner, the Eastern Military Academy, went bankrupt and moved out in 1979, vandals moved in. 
 Now partially restored and temporarily used for weddings and other affairs to sustain the cost of its $500,000-a-year upkeep, its future hangs on a proposal being considered by the Huntington Town Board.
The initiative, on which a public hearing will be held at 7 P.M. Sept. 24 in Huntington Town Hall, would create a historic overlay district to allow commercial use within it for notable properties such as Oheka, which are now zoned residential.
The outcome might well determine whether the mansion designed by Delano and Aldrich, will again attract the wealthy or fall back into disrepair. Many fear Oheka could be demolished if no permanent solution is found to pay for its huge upkeep.
Completed in 1917, Oheka is the second largest private residence in the United States, exceeded in size only by the 175,000-square-foot Biltmore Estate, built by George W. Vanderbilt in 1895in Asheville, N.C.
The original estate had its own 18-hole golf course, horse racetrack and a railroad station. But of the 443 acres Kahn owned, only 23 acres still belong to the house.
Oheka's current owner, 1994 Trust, a Japanese trust, wants to turn the mansion into a health spa, which under the historic overlay proposal could become a permitted use.
"This Town Board recognizes that this is a unique property and there is a good sense in the community that this is a unique property," said Wayne Nester, the town spokesman.
"There is also the harsh reality that there is no longer a viable use for it as a residential property."
The proposal has aroused opposition from some neighbors who want Oheka's residential character maintained and a plan to turn it into condominiums reactivated.
Cold Spring Hills is a community of close to 400 houses built largely in the 50's on land that once belonged to the 443-acre estate.
But supporters of a commercial use for Oheka say they far outnumber the naysayers. "There is a hard core of radicals who just don't want to see anything done with the building except what they want done," said Joseph C. Colacicco, the incoming president of the Cold Spring Hills Civic Association.
His 210-member group supports the historic overlay district proposal as being the best guarantee for Oheka's survival, he said.
"This is a white elephant from the golden age and there are no Otto Kahns around anymore," he said. "And the condominium market is dead."
Kahn died in 1934. Four years later the mansion was purchased by the Sanitation Workers Welfare Fund for a weekend retreat for New York sanitation men. The Eastern Military Academy, a private school, became the owner in 1948.
After the school closed, vandals set fires almost daily, ripped out the mansion's exquisite appointments and destroyed floors, walls and windows.
The building stood vacant until 1984 when Gary Melius, a Carle Place developer, purchased the property for $1.45 million, intending to convert the chateau, under an approved plan, into 37 condominiums.
Mr. Melius said he abandoned the condominium idea and sold out to the trust in 1989 because of the downturn in the residential market.
Under his ownership, however, many of the mansion's most important rooms were restored, including the entrance hall and its grand staircase, the ballroom, the library, the dining room and music room. Floors, fireplace mantels, ceilings, moldings and paneling have been replaced with materials and workmanship that closely resemble the originals.
"It was my baby," Mr. Melius said.
Exterior work on the slate roof, window replacement, and some restoration of the reflecting pools, fountains and landscaping originally designed by the Olmsted Brothers of Brookline, Mass., have also been completed.
The upper two floors containing 85 bedrooms have remained largely untouched, however, except for a two-bedroom apartment created to serve as a condominium model.
The trust purchased the house from Mr. Melius for $22.5 million but never used the building, and in 1993 leased it back to him.
The restoration so far has cost $12.5 million, and an additional $2 million was needed to repair damage caused when the trust left the building vacant for four years, Mr. Melius said.
He estimated that $20 million more would be needed to complete a restoration of the entire structure.
UNDER the terms of Mr. Melius's 114-year lease, he must receive approval, no later than 1998, for a health-spa operation. If that is not granted, he has the option to sign a new lease for five years, after which it would be terminated.
The trust is receiving no rent now, but starting in 1998, the annual rent would be $500,000, an amount that would increase by 5 percent annually on a compounded basis. Under the arrangement, Mr. Melius pays all expenses and the costs of additional improvements.
Reviving the condominium plan is not feasible, he said, because the cost of creating apartments would outstrip any gain. But a spa, which might charge individuals $2,500 or more a day, would be profitable, he said.
Opponents to the spa proposal, who call themselves the Cold Spring Residents Preservation Association, say that the commercial events for which the building is currently being used bring in traffic and noise and they want all such uses to stop.
"No one wants to see the castle fall into disrepair," said John J. Flanagan, a Northport lawyer, and also a New York State Assemblyman, who represents the group. "But the name of the group speaks to what they are all about, which is to keep this as a well-maintained and exclusive residential community."
The current commercial use is "clearly illegal," Mr. Flanagan added.
But Arthur Goldstein of Huntington, Mr. Melius's lawyer, noted that measures had been taken to put Oheka in compliance with all safety and fire codes, and that the town was allowing the interim uses because to shut them down would turn the building "from a protected building to one with all sorts of problems."
The mansion attracts more curiosity seekers than commercial traffic, noted Pat Scimone, whose European American Real Estate agency occupies Kahn's one-time gatehouse at West Gate Drive and Jericho Turnpike. Besides, she said, the community, where houses sell in the $300,000 to $400,000 price range, already has two commercial enterprises.
MANY of the houses back up to the 168-acre 18-hole golf course that Kahn built for himself and which now is operated by the Cold Spring Country Club. Otto Keil, a wholesale florist, also operates on land that Kahn once owned. The mansion itself is set far back from the nearest residence behind a wall of trees, lawns and gatehouses.
Oheka's problems are similar to those of other large historic houses that have outlived their one-family use. Many have been turned into schools and religious institutions; others became country clubs or were purchased for public use.
But many important buildings, which could not be economically sustained because of their single-family zoning, have been lost.
"I would hate to see another mansion fall," said Mitzi Caputo, the director of the Huntington Historical Society.
"Mr. Melius has done magnificent work restoring this building after it was in a horrible situation," she said. "I don't think the people who are complaining about him and opposing him have any concept of what could happen again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Melius, top right, hopes to convert Oheka, which was built in 1917 and features spacious interiors, into a health spa. (Photographs by Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTINGTON (NY); OHEKA (HUNTINGTON, NY, MANSION); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; ZONING REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); GOLF (65%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (56%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA GARY MELIUS (89%); OTTO H KAHN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



17 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Westwood, N.J.;
In a Bergen Borough, Diversified Growth

BYLINE: By GENE RONDINARO 

 BODY:
THE lights seem to flicker off a little later at night in homes set along quiet tree-lined streets in the Bergen County Borough of Westwood.
And at dawn, while harried commuters in other municipalities rise early only to stream onto crowded roadways en route to jobs in Manhattan across the Hudson River, residents often walk to the train station or a commuter bus for the one-hour trip. 
 "It's a very convenient place to live and work," said Janice McMakin, a software analyst, who with her husband, Douglas, moved back to Westwood this spring from Maine after a 15-year absence.
"I missed being able to just walk into town to shop, buy an ice cream cone, or to meet old friends," added Mrs. McMakin, who with her husband bought a small Cape Cod on Washington Avenue.
"I lived here for 22 years, but Westwood wasn't our only choice when my husband and I decided to move back to the area," she added.
"We compared several communities on the basis of affordability, schools and overall life style. In the end, we decided nearly everything we wanted was here."
During the 50's, while other Bergen County communities were transforming their farmlands into developments of single-family homes that often resembled one another, Westwood opted for more orderly and diversified growth.
Trees were saved, and most new homes were required to be built on lots at least 50 by 100 feet.
The result is neighborhoods where century-old homes, retaining much of their original charm, flank more modest housing built in the 50's and 60's. The unlikely mix somehow blends comfortably along many of Westwood's winding streets.
With a new $2.5 million municipal building on Washington Avenue, and a thriving central business district -- recently upgraded with the addition of several upscale retail stores, turn-of-the-century street lamps and brick pedestrian walkways -- the economic health of the downtown area seems solid.
On a recent Saturday, just down the block and across the railroad tracks from the busy downtown stores on Westwood Avenue, young couples could be seen strolling through Veterans Park while children played beneath the canopy of a tree-shaded bandstand.
"No doubt Westwood is going though a transformation," said Mayor Bernard Kelley, referring to the revival of the downtown. "But in many ways it has remained a small, friendly and family-oriented town."
Family activities and pursuits seem to predominate in the life of the 2.4-square mile community.
In addition to a wide variety of homes, some dating back to the town's origins as an early Dutch settlement, Westwood boasts 11 houses of worship, six playgrounds, three parks and athletic fields.
The largest park is the 137-acre Pascack Brook County Park, which has 4 tennis courts, 2 baseball diamonds, a children's playground, picnic areas, bicycle trails and a pond.
A newly dedicated community center on Jefferson Avenue, featuring a full-sized basketball court, arts and crafts center and a huge meeting area with kitchen, serves teen-agers and the elderly. Westwood is one of only a handful of municipalities its size in the state with its own full-time recreation director.
"We even have an indoor ice-skating rink," added Mayor Kelley, referring to theFritz Dietl Ice-Skating Rink, a 38-year-old commercial venture on Broadway.
MANY newer residents say they moved to the town because of the affordability and variety of housing, as well as its fine schools.
The Westwood Regional School System, which has a student population of 2,150 and 212 teachers, is regarded as one of the better systems in the region. It is the only school system in the county with both elementary and high school education under the same administration. Students include children from the neighboring community of Washington Township.
More than 80 percent of the faculty members hold master's degrees and about 90 percent of high school seniors go on to higher education.
"We have excellent schools, with many of our graduates now attending top-notch universities and colleges around the country," said Joseph Fisler, the district's superintendent.
"Last year we had seniors accepted at Stanford, Cornell, Dartmouth and two at West Point."
Children attend one of three elementary schools in the borough before moving on to the seventh to 12th grades at Westwood Regional High School in Washington Township.
The system emphasizes basic studies and the sciences. In December, voters approved a special $6.9 million bond referendum to upgrade facilities and buy new computers.
"Our goal is to have one computer in every classroom," Dr. Fisler said. Even now, computer labs are available to students in every school.
THE school system is also an active member of Bergen ITV, an interactive instructional television system, which links students and teachers with courses at 25 high schools and two area colleges.
Though the schools play a major part in attracting newcomers, the wide scope of housing is also a key incentive.
Prices range from about $150,000 for a two-bedroom Cape Cod on one of those 50-by-100-foot lots, according to area realtors, to as much as $500,000 for a four- or five-bedroom colonial or Tudor on an acre or more in the exclusive Goodwin Park area.
The median price for a home in Westwood is $205,000, with annual assessments at $5,100, according to Borough Tax Assessor Pamela Perlman.
"Homes at that price are generally either a colonial or Cape Cod, about 40 years old, with three bedrooms, two baths on a 75- by-100-foot lot," said Chris Heck, co-owner with his father, Richard, of Heck Realtors on Center Avenue.
"Most new residents are business or medical professionals with young children," added Mr. Heck, whose grandfather founded the realty agency in 1916.
"They move in at prices below what they would cost in other areas of the county, then they use the money they save to renovate their properties."
The borough is composed almost entirely of single-family homes, but there are a few multiple-family residences and a total of about 500 rentals in eight garden-apartment complexes.
With nearly all residential properties already developed, there is almost no new construction. But when new homes do become available, they sell for between $300,000 to $500,000.
Rentals range from about $600 to $850 for a one-bedroom unit, and from $800 to $1,100 for two bedrooms. There are three condominium complexes with a total of 203 units. The largest is the 120-unit Roxbury Condominiums town-house development. One-bedroom units over all sell for $90,000 to $115,000, and two- bedrooms for $120,000 to $150,000.
Westwood officials recently rezoned about three-and-a-half acres at the former junior high school on Third Avenue and Mill Street for development of 45 town-house condominiums.
The school was demolished last year but had been closed for nine years due to declining enrollment. Though no developer has yet submitted plans for such construction, the town acted at the request of local residents to discourage more ambitious higher-density development.
The borough's largest employer is the 309-bed Pascack Valley Hospital. The growing facility has continued to attract medical personnel and offices affiliated with the hospital on Old Hook Road.
WESTWOOD celebrated its centennial in 1994, but its known history began almost 300 years before, with the arrival of the first French Huguenot and Dutch settlers who sailed up the Hackensack River from New Amsterdam seeking both religious freedom and land to grow crops.
In 1764, a grist mill was constructed on the banks of the Musquapsing Brook. And with the coming of the railroad in 1870, the community was well on its way to becoming the commercial and political hub of the seven-town area known as the Pascack Valley.
The prosperity was disrupted by the opening of malls on Routes 4 and 17 in nearby Paramus in the late 50's and early 60's, siphoning off retail trade in the central business district. In 1983, two huge fires destroyed almost two blocks of commercial space there.
"The fires ironically became the catalyst for the business revival, which has continued to the present time," said Mayor Kelley, a 24-year resident.
The central business district now includes 75 stores, and Westwood Plaza, a 30-store shopping area on Broadway with a Kmart and Grand Union as anchors. And many residents still enjoy catching a movie at the Pascack Theater on Center Avenue, or strolling down to Westwood Center, where they can dine at one of the newer local eateries.
Among the newer moderately priced restaurants are Gian Carlo's and the Tuscany Trattoria, featuring Italian cuisine, or the Olive Grove, which has a Middle Eastern menu. Many residents, though, still prefer the Iron Horse just across the tracks from Westwood Center on Washington Avenue, well known for its hamburgers and ribs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Streets such as Bogert Avenue are lined with century-old homes amid more modest housing. From the train station to Manhattan takes about an hour. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); On the Market - 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 70-year-old colonial, full basement at 46 Clinton Street, $179,000. 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath colonial on 75- by 125-foot lot at 58 Kingsberry Street, $209,000. 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath sugar maple split level at 115 Third Avenue, $259,000.
 
Chart "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 10,466 (1990 census)
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $54,294 (1990 census).
 
MEDIAN PRICE FOR A ONE-FAMILY HOME: $205,000
 
TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $5,100.
 
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $200,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $216,700.
 
MEDIAN PRICE OF 2-BEDROOM CONDO: $125,000.
 
MEDIAN RENT FOR 1-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $900.
 
PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $2,652.
 
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 24 miles
 
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MANHATTAN: 45 minutes to Hoboken on N.J. Transit train, $5.75 one way, $132 monthly, then 15 minutes on PATH: one hour on N.J. Transit bus to midtown Port Authority bus terminal, $3.95 one way, $110 monthly. Red and Tan Bus Lines, $3.95 one way, 20-trip ticket $73.10.
 
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Bernard Kelley, Republican), elected to 4-year term and 6 Council members, elected to staggered 3-year terms; Borough Administrator, Donald Rainey, appointed by the Council.
 
CODES: Area 201; ZIP 07675.
 
YOUNG AT HEART: When plans to build the new $2.5 million municipal center on Washington Avenue neared approval, municipal officials pondered the future of the existing building on Jefferson Avenue. Built in 1960, and no longer adequate for municipal purposes, many believed that the structure should be sold for commercial development. Others however viewed the 14,570-sq.-ft. building as a resource that could be utilized for the benefit of the borough. Last year, after seven months of renovation and at a cost of $700,000, the building was rededicated as the Westwood Community Center, featuring recreational facilities for the borough's teen-agers and the elderly. The plaque at the entrance way reads: "For the Young and the Young at Heart."
 
Map of New Jersey showing the location of Westwood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WESTWOOD REGIONAL SCHOOL SYSTEM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTWOOD REGIONAL SCHOOL SYSTEM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTWOOD (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TRAINS (77%); ICE CREAM (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); 

PERSON: RODINARO, GENE

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



18 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: The Pension Problem

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Why Our Pensions Must Be Made Portable" (Viewpoint, June 30), James H. Smalhout identified the right problem: Our retirement system sometimes ill-serves those whom it is intended to help. But the solution presented in the article will only make the problem worse. 
 According to the article, the problem is lack of portability in defined pension plans. The solution, it suggests, is requiring employers to index pension benefits to inflation when an employee leaves the company before retirement.
But dramatically increasing the cost of providing pension coverage and adding a layer of costly, complicated and burdensome regulations to what is already an administrative nightmare will lead employers to do one thing: terminate their defined benefit plans.
To be sure, many employers will replace traditional plans with 401(k)-type plans, which are becoming more popular with employers and employees, in part because benefits are portable. But the article's proposal would prompt the end of a retirement planning choice, and that is never a good thing.
The real problem is overregulation of retirement plans, making it difficult and costly for employers to offer these important benefits.
The real solution is pension-simplification legislation that would eliminate the barriers now preventing many employers from offering comprehensive retirement plans.
The National Association of Manufacturers has lobbied aggressively for legislation that would expand availability of 401(k)'s, eliminate the administrative complexity, and disentangle rules and requirements afflicting defined-benefit plans.
These types of reforms are part of the minimum-wage bill signed by President Clinton. They are an important first step in eliminating the real barrier to retirement security.
 
PAUL R. HUARD
Washington, Aug. 20
 
The writer is senior vice president of policy and communications for the National Association of Manufacturers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); LOBBYING (71%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (69%); 

PERSON: SMALHOUT, JAMES H BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



19 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 5; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
Little League Team Faces a Loss, of Hard-Won Field

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
To Maurice Faucette, the Little League baseball field at 115th Street between Lenox and Fifth Avenues, which he helped carve from a rat-infested garbage dump, has taught some indifferent youngsters, now known as the South Harlem Reds, teamwork and grit. And, Mr. Faucette contends, it must be preserved. "Give the children an environment in which to breathe and grow," he said last week. "Give them this field."
To Lilliam Barrios-Paoli, the commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, the field is an obstacle to a $25 million project that will bring 265 housing units, 90,000 square feet of commercial space and hundreds of jobs to a poor neighborhood. And it is to be bulldozed as early as next March. "The probability of stopping this project is zero," Ms. Barrios-Paoli said. "It might be nice, but you wouldn't have a baseball field next to Rockefeller Center or in front of Macy's." 
 She has offered Mr. Faucette a baseball field at 119th Street between Madison and Park Avenues. He has refused. "Look around you," he said, pointing to the Martin Luther King Jr. Towers, a huge apartment complex, and other residential high-rises. "These children need this bit of earth. They'll suffocate in all these buildings."
Starting in April 1994, Mr. Faucette, a photocopier salesman and community organizer, and some neighborhood friends began turning the city-owned field into a baseball diamond. He and Gregory J. Anderson, a Wall Street executive, organized as many as 50 youngsters to march in line, picking up rocks, glass and other debris. Thurman Oakley put together a wire-screen sifter to separate sand and dirt from pebbles and stones. It took two months to get enough usable soil for a pitcher's mound.
But the field was on loan from the city, which renewed Mr. Faucette's permit annually until last month, when officials told him the land was needed for the mixed-use project. It is being sponsored by the Malcolm Shabazz mosque and the New York City Partnership, a group of 50 major corporations and executives that made headlines in June when it announced plans to invest millions of dollars in some of the city's toughest, poorest neighborhoods, to create jobs and promote economic development.
A city housing official, James Lima, said the city would invest about $2.5 million in the project, the State and Federal governments $2.5 million and private sources some $20 million. ANTHONY RAMIREZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buildings, not baseballs, are to rise on a city-owned Little League field on 115th Street. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LITTLE LEAGUE; HOUSING BASEBALL (93%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (55%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY MAURICE FAUCETTE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



20 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Lights, Camera, Avarice: A Securities Soap Opera

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN 

 BODY:
AS a floor trader at the American Stock Exchange in the 1980's, I would unwind at night by channel surfing, zipping past all the standard newsroom, mod squad, public defender, private eye and forensic medical shows, and wonder, "When will they ever do a show about us?"
You would think that after Tom Wolfe's "Bonfire of the Vanities" (the book, not the film flop), Jerry Sterner's "Other People's Money" (the play and the movie) and the Oliver Stone film "Wall Street," some sharp programmer would have come up with, say, "Exchange Place 10005." You know, the usual formula: a bunch of handsome but horny Sassoon-groomed, Armani-suited, red-suspendered guys hurling phones and foul-mouthed imprecations at their clerks while banging away furiously on their computers. Of course, there would also be a couple of bubble-gum-popping Jersey chicks. 
 So, what happened? The Crash of '87 and the '89 rerun, for two. By the time the networks got their actors together, the dastardly arbitrager of "Wall Street," Gordon Gekko, was history. The decade of greed had silently segued into the decade of denial. You could still amass a fortune but you just didn't advertise it: executives lined their pockets with stock options, but were careful to put a recycling bin next to the purified-water cooler.
Last year, when I floated an idea for just such a Wall Street show to some TV people in beautiful downtown Burbank, I was told firmly that the concept was about as exciting as bringing back "Ozzie and Harriet." "Unless," one wag said, "you could deliver us Jane Austen as the writer."
I was dumbfounded. Since 1989, business and financial coverage in virtually every medium -- including cyberspace -- has zoomed. The Dow Jones industrial average has more than doubled. So much money has poured into mutual funds that people are checking their portfolios by phone from their rough-terrain vehicles as they head to the factory.
Even the Public Broadcasting Service may have the financial fever. It recently offered us a rerun of "Triumph of the Nerds" -- basically, how Steven Jobs and Bill Gates conquered Silicon Valley.
If the network guys did not see that we were still steeped in the money culture, the Canadians did. For the last year, viewers of the CanWest Global Network have been glued to their tubes in prime time, bestowing encouraging ratings on an hourlongweekly financial soap opera called "Traders."
And now, as the show enters its second season there, Lifetime Television has decided to bring it to the United States. Lifetime, a cable channel jointly owned by the Hearst Corporation and the ABC network, will broadcast the first two episodes back to back on Tuesday at 9 P.M. Eastern time. After a rerun on Saturday at 4 P.M., the series is scheduled to settle down to a 7 P.M. slot starting next Sunday.
That hour is hazardous -- the show is opposite "60 Minutes" -- but "Traders" does have its attractions. With its quick cuts, dramatic opening music (perhaps better suited to a Cecil B. DeMille epic) and stylish production, the show is a slick tale of securities underwriting, corporate treachery, extramarital hanky-panky, medical malpractice, political blackmail, insider trading, extortion, substance abuse and other games as played by the wheeler-dealers at Gardner/Ross, supposedly a private investment banking firm in Toronto. The boutique firm is in big trouble too, because, well, it may be takeover time.
Although the producers would like us to envision "Traders" as the financial version of "E.R.," it is all right to think "Dallas" or "Dynasty," without the palatial homes and ostentatious jewels.
Nor will "Traders" do for securities analysts what the film "All The President's Men" did for investigative journalists. This prime-time workplace soap is not meant to moralize or inspire, but rather to entertain.
With one exception, that is. According to its mission statement, Lifetime is committed to programming of particular interest to women.
"What we liked about 'Traders,' " Doug McCormick, Lifetime's chief executive, said, "is that the women take short positions rather than shorthand."
That is unusual on Wall Street, where, as one tart-tongued, pool-playing female stockbroker on the show puts it, "This is a business where it is not exactly fashionable to have breasts."
Like Mike Nichols's "Working Girl," "Traders" celebrates women as smart cookies -- smarter sometimes than their bra-snapping male co-workers when it comes to deal-making. As such, the show might serve as a confidence booster to many women who are contemplating careers in high finance.
Among the women on the show, the primary role model is Sally Ross. An economics professor, she has so far resisted the blandishments of her roguish father, the founding partner Cedric Ross, to join the firm. But as the initial double episode begins, Daddy, a pillar of Toronto's Bay Street establishment, is muscled off to jail for stealing $5 million from a stock offering. So plucky Sally steps in to keep the firm from being sold to a banking conglomerate by Daddy's unctuous, sleazy second-in-command, Adam Cunningham. Daughter, father and villain are played by Sonja Smits, David Gardner and Bruce Gray, respectively.
OVER Mr. Cunningham's protest, Ms. Ross brings in Jack Larkin (David Cubitt), a ruthlessly ambitious punk trader from the wrong side of the Canadian Pacific tracks who bets the firm to pull off the Deal of the Century. She also battles Marty Stephens (Patrick McKenna), the egomaniacal head trader, who keeps ordering nontraders to get off the floor, even though said trading floor appears to be no larger than a storefront Charles Schwab office.
And through it all, she finds herself swept into the adrenaline flow, despite her initial lack of confidence.
"She operates on a steep learning curve," the publicity material says, "but finds the ride intoxicating."
So may we all. In future episodes, the writers throw in Russian mobsters as well as some Jewish investors who vengefully take over a Nazi-tainted chemical company.
The show does sound some false notes. Most of the cast looks as if it had been recruited from "Melrose Place" after graduating from West Beverly Hills High School in "Beverly Hills 90210." And the cast seems to have taken the same overacting class.
The dialogue is also so bullet-fast that it is sometimes difficult to follow. If you do not read the business pages regularly, you are going to miss a lot of what goes into every deal. But that doesn't matter; it is the big picture that the producers want you to see. To appreciate "Traders," you need as much economics savvy as you need bowling skill to watch "Roseanne."
Real-life routines are not the show's strong suit, either. At one point, Mr. Larkin wants to meet an elusive mining tycoon; if he can hook him as a client, he can snare a spot in the Gardner/Ross corporate finance department. But forget networking and letters of introduction. That is not drama. Instead, through machinations like peeling off crisp $100 bills to bribe the mogul's limousine driver and buy his way into a poker game in a smoke-filled Chinatown restaurant, Mr. Larkin is able to corner his quarry.
The tycoon, impressed by the young hotshot, hires him and his dysfunctional firm. That is how deals are closed in "Traders."
But don't be put off by the occasional lack of realism. After all, was "Dallas" an accurate depiction of the Texas oil business?
Anyway, fact is often stranger than fiction when it comes to trading. During my first week as a clerk, a splash of colors caught my eye as one broker, speaking more Bourbon Street than Wall Street, hurried past in large purple sneakers and a wide orange-and-white polka-dot tie. It turns out he was Melvin Van Peebles, better known as the first black director of a mainstream Hollywood film -- "Watermelon Man" (1970), starring Godfrey Cambridge -- and the father of the actor and director Mario Van Peebles. Apparently, one of Melvin's theatrical projects had flopped, and he was working a stint as a broker to pay off his backers.
Then, a few weeks later, one of my firm's senior partners sat at his desk late one night, took out a gun and blew his brains out. He left no note, but the word on the Street was "trading losses."
One of the most compelling aspects of "Liar's Poker," Michael Lewis's wickedly funny book, is its deft portrayal of the trading environment at Salomon Brothers. Whether the guys are busy torturing trainees or replacing the clothes in one another's weekend bags with wet paper towels, there is plenty of banter, game-playing and tomfoolery. The same was true at the stock exchange where I worked. "Traders," however, is rather lacking in these high jinks.
Maybe traders act like giddy college students for the same reason that Mary Richards, in "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," laughed at the funeral of Chuckles the Clown. (Chuckles, dressed as a peanut, was crushed by a hungry elephant.) It diffuses tension. Or maybe the high-energy people attracted to jobs like trading are often practical jokers by nature.
But the folks at this Toronto firm are oh-so-serious, and that does not make them very likable. You will not catch them doing wheelchair stunts or barking orders while catching up on a favorite soap opera, as George Clooney does in "E.R."
This absence might be dangerous for "Traders." The secret to successful ensemble dramas like "Hill Street Blues," "L.A. Law" and "N.Y.P.D. Blue" is that viewers identify with one or two characters they like and stick with them through thick or thin.
OF course, the lack of comedy might not be the fault of "Traders." It might just be we are a rowdier crowd in the States, what with an earlier spring, less gun control and all.
Even with the decided lack of guffaws, most real traders will probably get a kick out of the series. As for other viewers, those who find John Grisham's legal cliffhangers and Tom Clancy's techno-thrillers to be page-turners will have no problem taping "60 Minutes" to watch "Traders."
Those who still revel in "Bonfire," however, will miss the wry humor and may want to wait for a TV sitcom version of the show.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sally Ross (Sonja Smits) steps in to save the firm, and Marty Stephens (Patrick McKenna) is an egomaniacal trader in "Traders." (Lifetime)
 
Graph: "In Real life, Wall Street's a Hit" shows overall employment at securities firms in the U.S. and estimates of traders' pay from Gary Goldstein, president of the Whitney Group. (Source: Securities Industry Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TRADERS (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); CWG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CANWEST GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS CORP; LIFETIME TELEVISION PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (63%); HEARST CORP (60%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); LIFETIME ENTERTAINMENT SERVICES LLC (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANWEST GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS CORP; LIFETIME TELEVISION AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; WOMEN; STOCKS AND BONDS; SOAP OPERAS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (87%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (86%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); FILM (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); FORENSICS (72%); WRITERS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); 

PERSON: PEDERSEN, LAURA BILL GATES (52%); STEVEN JOBS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



21 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
The Rev. Doctor Banker

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
SAVE for a few white lilies sprouting from gaudy plastic flower arrangements near the stage, there is little evidence that the New York Christian Life Center in East New York, Brooklyn, is a church. There is hardly any Christian iconography. The setting is like a television studio, with a band near the stage playing snappy interludes, contemporary gospel selections that the pastor calls "positive message music."
"Are you blessed?" a church elder queried the congregants on a recent Sunday. 
 "Yes!" they roared.
"What does that mean?" he asked.
"Empowered to succeed!"
It is no accident that services at the Christian Life Center sound more like New Age corporate-speak than fire-and-brimstone admonitions. The church's philosophy reflects the curious blend of the past lives of its pastor, Alfonso R. Bernard. It combines his zeal as a born-again Christian, the polish of his martial arts training, the pursuit of capitalism learned during his decade in banking, the hard lessons learned during his days as a drug dealer, and the marriage of ideology formed by his lifelong identification with the Republican Party and his brief flirtation with the Nation of Islam.
In November 1979, in the middle of a wave of downsizing by his employer, Bankers Trust, Mr. Bernard said "an inner voice, what I call the spirit of God" prompted him to leave his job as a loan officer. A few months later, he opened a storefront church in his Williamsburg, Brooklyn, neighborhood, and Mr. Bernard became the Rev. Dr. Bernard. "It began," he said, "a revolution in my life."
Mr. Bernard's melange of theology-you-can-use and the slick professionalism of a Wall Street firm has made him a progenitor of an emerging form of evangelism -- the megachurch. Such churches, said Charles McCoy, a retired professor of theology and ethics at Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif., "are taking people and not only getting them committed, but giving them training in how to live their Christian lives. You tend to get this dominating force that can get very pernicious."
While Mr. Bernard's flock would probably disagree that his church is pernicious, there is no doubt that it is a force. The ministry has grown to more than 6,000 members with an annual budget of $5 million. "The way the word is presented to them, it's relevant," Mr. Bernard said. "They can take it home and use it right away."
Mr. Bernard's sermons weave in lessons in money management, and his church, in addition to Sunday school, offers seminars on topics from how to buy a house to how to be a good husband. His 90's-style self-help message is ubiquitous. A stone block on his desk reads, "Attitude Is Everything." A poster in his office says: "Leaders are like eagles. They don't flock. You find them one at a time."
Born a Catholic in Panama in 1953, Mr. Bernard moved with his mother to Bedford-Stuyvesant when he was 4; he did not know his father. During his youth, spent mostly in Bushwick, he sold marijuana, trained in martial arts and dabbled in Hinduism, Buddhism and Tibetan Lamaism. As he was about to enroll in City College in 1969, he was lured away by a job at Bankers Trust.
In the early 70's, Mr. Bernard was drawn to the Nation of Islam. But in January 1975, as he was about to join the Nation, a chance encounter with Nicky Cruz, a gang leader-turned-evangelist, turned his head. Soon, Mr. Bernard was ordained at the Institutional Church of God in Christ in Fort Greene, a lively Pentecostal parish. (He refers to himself as "the Reverend Doctor," although his degree is honorary.) He was not likely to lead that church: its pastor was grooming his son as successor. So Mr. Bernard launched his own.
Today, the Christian Life Center is among the city's largest churches. Mr. Bernard conducts Easter service at the Nassau Coliseum and plans to hold New Year's Eve worship at Radio City Music Hall this year. Bulging out of its current home in a former supermarket, the church is building a $24 million, 4,500-seat facility on Flatlands and Louisiana Avenues, across from the Starrett City housing complex (a pool of potential future parishioners, Mr. Bernard notes).
Though he is critical of Louis Farrakhan -- black men, Mr. Bernard argues, should turn to Jesus Christ, not Mr. Farrakhan -- his flirtation with the Nation of Islam is still evident. With a membership that is half male, Mr. Bernard's church echoes the message of Mr. Farrakhan's Million Man March of men "taking responsibility for their manhood." Men, he says, define themselves by their performance: when God created Adam, he entrusted him to take care of the garden of Eden. "You have a man whose first responsibility was with his job," he said. "You have a woman whose first responsibility was with the relationship."
The influence of the corporate world on Mr. Bernard is also evident. He favors bow ties and horn-rimmed glasses, capitalism and conservatism. As a Republican, he values the work ethic and upbraids loose immigration policy, though he disagrees with the party's stance on affirmative action. "A stronger family means a stronger society," he said, echoing the Republican platform. "We're suffering right now from a breakdown of the family unit and the redefinition of the family."
For all his spiritual enterprises, Mr. Bernard has not abandoned his entrepreneurial verve. He owns an accounting firm, a barbershop in Queens and real estate. The church has also spawned a for-profit subsidiary -- a recording company that markets contemporary gospel -- and is now exploring televising its Sunday services.
Church life has also been worthwhile for Mr. Bernard's family. He credits his religious salvation with saving a marriage that was near divorce. He and his wife, Karen, who is the church's quality control director earn a six-figure salary ($100,000 a year for him, $35,000 for her, he said). The Bernards now live in Dix Hills, L.I.
That so many reluctant Christians have returned to church in the 90's gives Mr. Bernard great pleasure. Church is not a "Sunday thing," he said. "It's a lifestyle. Unlike Marx, I think the church is a necessary institution."

GRAPHIC: Photos: New Age meets capitalism meets religion at the Rev. Dr. Alfonso Bernard's New York Christian Life Center. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Chart: "ECONOMIC REVIVALISM?: The Corporate Church" highlights some of the seminars offered by the New York Christian Life Centre which have a business-oriented emphasis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN LIFE CENTER (BROOKLYN) NATION OF ISLAM (55%); NATION OF ISLAM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN LIFE CENTER (BROOKLYN) NATION OF ISLAM (55%); NATION OF ISLAM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BUDGETS (69%); ETHICS (65%); MARTIAL ARTS (53%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; BERNARD, ALFONSO (REV DR) ALFONSO R BERNARD (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



22 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
End of the Line Is Sometimes the Start of Something Big

BYLINE: By JIM HENRY 

 BODY:
THE lease on your car is about to end and you finally have to make the decision that has been waiting for you since you signed the contract: Do you buy the car or hand it back to the dealer?
Say the car is in great condition and you have loved driving it. You want to keep it. On the flip side, you may be convinced that it is in poor condition and are eager to turn over the headache to the dealer. 
 But the smart financial choice is not that clear-cut.
As is often the case in the car business, the key is figuring out exactly what your car is worth. Your contract does not tell you, and you will have to find out yourself. If you hit the jackpot, the car's value may be far more than the finance company had figured at the outset, giving you all sorts of wiggle room to cut yourself a better deal on your next car.
First of all, be careful not to confuse your car's worth with the residual value. That is the finance company's best guess at the time the lease is signed of what the car will be worth at the end of the lease -- and it is the amount you are supposed to pay for the car if you buy it. But just because the company set a residual value, say, two years ago, does not mean that you are stuck with it.
When the lease expires, you have several options. You can buy the vehicle, paying the dealer the residual value, and either keep the car or resell it. Or you can just give the car back to the dealer. CNW Marketing Research in Bandon, Ore., said that of the 890,000 customers whose leases expired in the first quarter of this year, 75 percent returned their cars. About 25 percent kept them.
Keeping the car becomes attractive if its street price and residual value are about equal. There is usually no room to negotiate a better price in such cases, but you can rest easier knowing that you are not paying any more for the car than you would on the used-car market. You also know the foibles of your own car; that is not the case if you buy some other used car.
Buying your leased car may also be the best option if the dealer plans to hit you with excess-mileage and wear-and-tear charges. If you must pay, say, a thousand dollars in fees just to return the car, it may be more economical to keep it instead of signing another lease or buying a new car.
Keep in mind that you can often avoid or reduce the charges for wear and tear. If the car has problems, have the repairs done yourself, especially if they are covered by the car's warranty. Also, in several states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, you must be given an itemized bill for excess wear and tear. You then have the right to get a second inspection, at your expense, by a licensed appraiser that the leasing company has also agreed to use.
THERE is also a way to reduce the residual value at the beginning of the lease. Just negotiate higher monthly payments.
It's not as goofy as it sounds: Many auto makers artificially inflate residual values, as a form of incentive, to lower the monthly payments. But if steeper payments do not bother you -- or if your company is footing the bill -- you might want to reject that incentive and pay the higher monthly amount. That will reduce the residual value, making it cheaper for you to buy the car when the lease expires. Either way, your total costs will probably be about the same, but the larger payments reduce a big expense when the lease is up.
 Buying the car and then reselling it only becomes an option if the street value of the car is more than its residual value. That has happened with many of the popular sport utility vehicles. Then you can simply buy low and sell high: The difference can be several thousand dollars.
For example, a Chevrolet Suburban sport utility (with Silverado trim package) was leased two years ago and has a residual value of $23,241. But the truck sells on the street for about $27,000. You would make $3,800 if you bought the truck at the end of the lease and resold it. But if you and the dealer are willing to negotiate, you might get some of the $3,800 applied to your next vehicle without all the trouble of selling the old one yourself. Even the best negotiator probably will not get the full $3,800, but a good one can get close.
"Sport utilities are bringing big dollars," said Kevin Wiltshire, of the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the financing unit of the auto maker. "It was not anticipated by those who set the residuals that the truck market would be as hot as it is."
Having such a vehicle puts you in a great position at the end of your lease, but you need to know what it's worth when you show up at the dealership. Used-car prices vary significantly by market and even by the time of year. Check used-car guides, classified ads, consumer buying services and Internet ads to arm yourself with the numbers that prove your car's value.
Of course, you always have the option of walking away from the car, especially when the residual value is much higher than the street value, as is often the case. If you feel you can find another car of similar quality, you might as well go to the used-car market and pay less.
You might, for example, want to walk away from the $29,492 purchase option on a 24-month-old Cadillac Seville SLS, because its present market value is an average of only $27,100. But if you really want to own your leased car, ask your dealer to offer you a more realistic price. He may agree, depending on the market demand for the car and his potential profit on the sale.
 So doing some research long before your lease ends could make the difference between paying too much and making some money. "People should really look at leasing as a way to hedge your investment," said Kim Carlson, a lease manager at Ford Motor Credit.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More Options That You Think" lists two leasing examples where reality and the residual were far apart, creating an opportunity to negotiate. (Source: Company ads; Intellichoice)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); OREGON, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%); MARKET RESEARCH (63%); 

PERSON: HENRY, JIM

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



23 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Picking Up the Shattered Pieces of a Lifetime of Saving

SERIES: FRESH START: A periodic look at the crossroads of personal finance

BYLINE: By DAN COLARUSSO 

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, Olga Monetti and Fannie Monetti were arguably New York's most unlikely millionaires. The two 60-something sisters shopped in thrift stores, refinished discarded furniture for their home in East Harlem and drove a car that had seen much better days.
But now, after huge losses from derivatives investments and with small chance of collecting a related arbitration award, the sisters may have no choice but to scrimp. 
 "How can we live?" Olga Monetti said of the sisters' straitened circumstances.
Such a question would have been laughable a few years ago. For 40 years, the Monettis saved rigorously and relied on safe instruments like certificates of deposit and Treasury bonds. Time worked its slow magic and by the early 1990's they had managed to amass $1.2 million. The sisters, who never married and who cared for their ill mother until her death in 1993, fondly recall one year in which they earned $57,000 in interest alone. Their nest egg, they hoped, would one day pay for a comfortable retirement in a safe apartment in mid-Manhattan and a dream vacation to Italy.
But the affluence did not come easy. "This was sweat money," Olga Monetti said. "We sacrificed our whole lives. We put away and put away and put away." And their modest jobs did not enable them to save much from paycheck to paycheck. Olga, 62, continues to work, as a technician at Lenox Hill Hospital Blood Bank; Fannie, 69, retired a few years ago from her position as a file clerk at Borden.
Things began to unravel in 1991, when the sisters answered a newspaper ad promising high C.D. yields. The ad was placed by High Yield Management Securities, a brokerage firm in Clifton, N.J.; soon, the sisters moved all their savings there.
At first the Monettis had their money in conservative bond investments. But within a few years, many of their assets were redirected to risky derivatives that are drawn from pools of securitized mortgages known as collateralized mortgage obligations, or C.M.O.'s.
In 1993, for example, the Monettis bought complex investments called principal-only strips, which represent the principal portion of a C.M.O. In theory, these investments can be big winners. As interest rates fall, they gain value because mortgage holders pay off the principal early and refinance their debt at lower rates. But the Monetti sisters were not so lucky; by mid-1994 rates had risen three times and their investments sustained huge losses.
In 1994, High Yield Management had also sold the sisters interest-only strips, which are the interest portions of a mortgage pool. These investments should thrive when rates rise, but again the Monettis were unfortunate. As rates rose through 1994, the entire mortgage-backed derivatives market was thrown for a loop as major hedge funds sustained huge losses. The investments became all but illiquid.
Even worse, many of the Monettis' investments were very risky, based on mortgages of long maturity and held by borrowers with iffy repayment records. Bad market news hits such investments hard. The sisters were further hurt because they bought many of these investments on margin, with money borrowed from High Yield Management through National Financial Services, a unit of Fidelity Investments. The accumulating interest charges on these margin loans -- which reached a principal sum of $1.3 million -- forced High Yield to liquidate the Monettis' investments at a big loss.
That is how the Monetti sisters joined the ranks of sophisticated institutions like Procter & Gamble, Gibson Greetings and Orange County as victims of a volatile derivative securities market.
But the Monettis are not unusual in joining such company, according to Richard Ryder, publisher of the Securities Arbitration Commentator, a newsletter. While there are no statistics, anecdotal evidence suggests there has been an increase in the number of derivatives arbitrations brought by individual investors and small institutions, especially in the C.M.O. market.
"It's clear," said Mr. Ryder, "that C.M.O. derivatives have trickled down to the retail level."
For the Monettis and for High Yield Management, the losses have brought bitterness and controversy. The sisters say that the risks of the derivatives were never explained to them and that they thought the investments were similar to Treasury bonds and were Government-guaranteed. "We're not gamblers," Fannie Monetti said. "We don't even play Lotto."
Philip Eitman, the owner of the now-bankrupt High Yield Management, declined to comment on any specifics of the Monettis' situation because of pending litigation brought by other parties against his firm. But he says that he, like the Monettis, is a victim of a "historic" crash in the derivatives and bond markets. "There's a hefty list of creditors" of High Yield, he said. "I invested 100 percent of my time and money in the company. I lost everything."
One month ago, the arbitration that the Monettis instituted against Mr. Eitman and others in the case ended in a bittersweet victory. The arbitration panel, convened by the National Association of Securities Dealers, said the sisters did not have to pay the $1.3 million margin debt. And it ordered Mr. Eitman to pay the sisters $1 million.
But collecting on the $1 million is another matter. Mr. Eitman, who expressed surprise that he was held responsible by the panel, is facing other actions. He also says he owes money to the I.R.S.
"I've staved off filing personal bankruptcy as long as possible," he said, calling it "very unlikely" the sisters will see the $1 million. "The only thing I have left is my integrity." The Monettis' lawyers expect Mr. Eitman to file for bankruptcy soon.
For now, the Monettis must assume that they will never collect this money. Al Blomquist, a fee-only financial adviser in Franklin Lakes, N.J., offered the sisters a financial plan based on that assumption.
Their income consists of Fannie's $550 monthly Social Security check and $45-a-month pension from Borden, and Olga's $520 weekly take-home pay from Lenox Hill Hospital. They also collect rent on the two apartments in their brownstone, but they say that money basically covers the upkeep of the house, which their parents left them.
It helps that the sisters are frugal, but costs are high in Manhattan and they have some big expenses. Because she suffers from post-polio syndrome, for instance, Olga needs shoes that cost more than $200 and has substantial auto expenses. The women have the high medical bills typical for people their age, and they must also pay the big-ticket housing costs that the rent income will not cover, like the $6,000 they spent on plumbing last year.
"Some months, we have a few hundred dollars; some months there's nothing," said Olga, who added that she declined a $1,700-a-month early retirement package from Lenox Hill because she would not be able to pay for her own health insurance. "Our lives are wrecked."
What worries them most is the future. The sisters may someday need to pay for home health care. Olga cannot continue working for many more years, and when she stops the sisters' income will fall substantially. A sale of the sisters' home, their only big asset besides some small individual retirement accounts, would bring in only slightly more than $100,000. That's why they figure they are stuck in their deteriorating and dangerous neighborhood, where pet pit bulls abound.
And the future may be a long one. "There is a 55 percent probability that one of the two will live to 90," Mr. Blomquist said. "While they would want to maximize current income" to augment their monthly cash flow, he said, "they also need to build assets in order to offset inflation during their retirement years."
Mr. Blomquist said the Monettis' primary objective should be to "marshal all assets in no-load mutual funds" that fit their time horizon, risk preferences and investment knowledge.
Aiming for a uncomplicated portfolio, Mr. Blomquist recommends they invest their I.R.A.'s, and whatever else they can save, in either the Vanguard Star fund or one of the Vanguard Life Strategy funds. These "funds of funds" each invest in at least six other Vanguard funds, including stock and bond funds, making tracking and record-keeping simple.
One appropriate fund for the Monettis might be the Vanguard Life Strategy Conservative Growth Portfolio. Its current mix includes, among other funds, Vanguard's Index Trust 500 Portfolio fund, International Equity Index fund, Short-Term Corporate Bond fund and Asset Allocation fund.
The total return of the Conservative Growth Portfolio over the last 12 months was 10.27 percent, with almost half of that representing dividends. The fund has a 60-40 ratio of equity to fixed-income investments, which will give the Monettis both safety and some growth, Mr. Blomquist said.
Vanguard's traditionally low expense ratios -- generally one-third of 1 percent -- give the Monettis a break from high management fees or hefty sales charges. The sisters are operating on a thin margin, Mr. Blomquist explained, and every little bit saved helps. Similarly, he said, the sisters "don't need an adviser who is going to take 1 percent to manage their money."
If the sisters learn more about funds, "a multifund portfolio could be developed, perhaps with as many as 10 funds," Mr. Blomquist said. Using several funds would enable the sisters to choose their favorite fund from each category, he said, but "the long-term results would not be much different if the risk level was the same."
Touching on the sisters' one faint hope, he added, "If the ship comes in with the arbitration award, then they can be more aggressive."
The Monettis are receptive to Mr. Blomquist's ideas and -- given their recent experience -- they especially like the safety and the low expenses of the funds he has chosen. But they find it difficult to forget how far they have fallen.
"I didn't think things like this could happen in America," Olga said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fannie, left, and Olga Monetti lost their "sweat money" on derivatives investments. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HIGH YIELD MANAGEMENT SECURITIES HIGH YIELD MANAGEMENT SECURITIES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIGH YIELD MANAGEMENT SECURITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BONDS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (63%); BLOOD BANKS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: COLARUSSO, DAN; MONETTI, OLGA; MONETTI, FANNIE FANNIE MONETTI (85%); OLGA MONETTI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



24 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2846 words

HEADLINE: O Governor, Won't You Buy Me a Mercedes Plant?

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: TUSCALOOSA, Ala.

 BODY:
FOR Alabama, first in little but college football, the quest three years ago for the nation's only Mercedes plant touched deep, unrequited desires. "We're going to get Mercedes and we're going to make them love us," Gov. James E. Folsom Jr.'s wife, Marsha, told him and anyone else at the mansion who needed bucking up as dozens of states courted the auto maker with costly promises.
Today, a Mercedes plant sheathed in gleaming metallic panels rises from the pine forests of western Alabama, where even convenience stores have been few. 
 Local politicians and Mercedes executives continue to celebrate their victory. They expect 1,500 new jobs at the plant and 15,000 to 17,000 related jobs in the state.
But the auto maker's affections have cost the state dearly. Tax breaks and other subsidies are pushing $300 million. That amounts to $200,000 for each job -- 18 times what Tennessee paid for a Nissan plant in 1980, more than 7 times what Tennessee paid for the General Motors Saturn plant in 1985, 4 times what Kentucky paid for a Toyota plant in 1985 and 3 times what South Carolina paid for a BMW plant in 1992.
Mercedes, it appears, has driven a state with a subcompact budget to spend far beyond its means. Alabama, already last in elementary- and secondary-school spending, first tried raiding its education fund to keep its promises. After that and other efforts failed, the state missed a $43 million payment to Mercedes. Officials finally borrowed from the state's pension fund, at a punitive 9 percent rate.
To clear and level land that taxpayers bought for Mercedes in the town of Vance, about half an hour northeast of Tuscaloosa and 45 minutes southwest of Birmingham, state officials turned the work into a Federal expense. They called out the National Guard for a "training mission."
Partly because of taxpayer backlash over the Mercedes concessions, Mr. Folsom, a Democrat, and his wife are in the Governor's mansion no more. Fob James Jr., a Republican opponent who during his 1994 campaign accused Mr. Folsom of giving Mercedes far too much, moved in last year and promptly called the company to renegotiate what he could.
Still, the state has been bruised, and not just financially. Its hope of capitalizing on Mercedes' prestige risks being overshadowed by its reputation for overpaying. The state's job calculations are "wishful thinking," said William Gunther, an analyst of the state's economy at the University of Alabama. "We're all suffering from winner's curse."
Though states have used incentives to court corporations for decades, the Mercedes deal and its extraordinary costs show how the war between the states can get out of hand. In an era of corporate downsizing, politicians are often judged by how many jobs they create in the private sector. Companies, no longer loyal to a city or a state, find that their most valuable asset is the leverage they hold in choosing a site.
Economists argue that rich incentives often fail to yield adequate returns for a city or state, and certainly not for the nation's workers and taxpayers as a whole. Corporate welfare, they say, diverts money better spent attracting businesses through improved infrastructure and schools.
"It is nothing but a zero-sum game," said Robert B. Reich, the United States Secretary of Labor. "Resources are moved around; Peter is robbed to pay Paul." Companies that say they value schools but milk states for subsidies are being hypocritical, he added at a conference organized by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.
Only Congressional restrictions can halt this war, Arthur J. Rolnick, the research director for the Minneapolis Fed, said in an interview. He proposes that Washington tax as income up to 100 percent of any incentives or subsidies that a company receives to move.
Such a law, which would infuriate business leaders and state officials, has little chance in an election year. But many lawmakers are already broaching the issue. A recent request by Congress for an investigation of possible improprieties in states' use of Federal money to lure businesses was one of the few shared causes of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat, and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican. Also, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat, has sponsored a bill to end tax-free financing for stadiums.
Absent such legislation, and there is no reason to believe that the battles to get and keep businesses will let up soon. States' truces seldom endure. New York City has repeatedly cut deals for corporations threatening to move out: last year it awarded more than $30 million each to Morgan Stanley and to Kidder, Peabody & Company. California and the City of Anaheim agreed to spend $800 million on roads and other improvements, mostly to the benefit of the Walt Disney Company, after it threatened to cancel an expansion or even move Mickey, Donald and the whole Disneyland park. Utah gave Micron Technology Inc. an estimated $200 million in concessions to build a computer chip plant in the town of Lehi, though Micron halted construction last winter when chip prices fell.
This year, Massachusetts gave the Raytheon Company, the state's largest private employer, an annual tax break worth $20 million in the first year after it threatened to move jobs to Tennessee and Arizona. Then it gave mutual fund companies an annual break of about $40 million after Fidelity Investments spoke of shifting thousands of jobs to Rhode Island and elsewhere. Raytheon, its incentives in hand, announced in June that it would reduce its work force by 4,500 in Massachusetts.
Many states, upset that promised jobs fail to materialize, have passed laws allowing them to recover their incentives when companies pull back. Alabama's revised pact with Mercedes includes a claim on the plant and its machinery in case the factory never opens.
REGARDLESS of how many jobs Mercedes might mean for Alabama, the state's concessions have brought the United States only what would have come here anyway.
To avoid high German labor costs and to penetrate a booming American market for family trucks, known as sport utility vehicles, Mercedes had decided by early 1993 to build a plant in the United States.
Andreas Renschler, who managed the site selection for Mercedes and now runs the plant, said his aides had initially suggested 62 sites. None were in Alabama. The Germans knew all about Tennessee, as well as the Carolinas and other coastal states. "Alabama," Mr. Renschler said, "was totally unknown."
But Alabama's business people and politicians sniffed a singular chance to jump into the New South orbit. Not only would Mercedes pay twice the state's prevailing factory wages, but an economist working with company consultants estimated that the plant would lead to 15,000 to 17,000 new jobs in the state.
Governor Folsom flew to Stuttgart three times and steered an incentive package through the state legislature. To help improve Alabama's image, he lowered the Confederate battle flag above the state Capitol.
Simple economics argued for the Carolinas, where the parent company of Mercedes, Daimler-Benz A.G., already had two Freightliner truck plants and easy access to Atlantic ports. Mercedes planned to import parts from Germany and to export about half of the finished vehicles.
But North and South Carolina, the other finalists, found that the tax breaks or payments they extended were matched or bettered. Alabama offered $77.5 million in sewer, water and other utility improvements, $92.2 million to buy and develop the site and about $5 million annually for employee training and other programs.
The total, which was put at $253 million then and has since escalated to about $300 million, did not include another sweetener. The state agreed to buy 2,500 Mercedes utility vehicles, for use by everyone from highway construction supervisors to agricultural agents. The expense: about $75 million.
Mercedes contends that other states offered as much as Alabama. "We don't play one state against another," Mr. Renschler said. Officials from all three finalists, though, dispute that.
On Sept. 30, 1993, Mercedes announced its site decision. Proud Birmingham business leaders paid $75,000 to erect a 5,600-pound Mercedes hood ornament on top of the Legion Field scoreboard in time for the Alabama-Tennessee football game.
As details of the incentives dribbled out, the state began struggling to pay for them. It planned to relieve Mercedes of its corporate income taxes and let it keep most of its employees' personal state income taxes as long as the company had debt payments on plant construction. But much of that tax revenue is normally designated for education, in a state under court order to improve its schools and spread money more equally among districts.
The state's attempt to use the National Guard to prepare the site brought a reprimand from a member of Congress and a hasty retreat.
Unbowed, Mr. Folsom took to calling the tax-break legislation the Folsom Incentive Plan. His opponent for Governor, Mr. James, brought in Lamar Alexander, the former Tennessee Governor, to point out that his state had paid far less to win a General Motors Saturn plant that has far more workers. Mr. Folsom said that although a majority of voters favored the deal, opponents were so angry that they might have played a role in his 10,000-vote defeat.
The new Governor negotiated limits on some state commitments to Mercedes. He made sure that Mercedes agreed to eventually buy back a visitors' and training center, paid for by the state, at market value, not just a nominal price. He scotched the plan for a Mercedes fleet.
Mercedes executives say they are satisfied with the revised incentive package. "We are not coming into Alabama because there is a nice governor," Mr. Renschler said. "We still feel at home here."
The back-slapping manner of Mr. Renschler, a gangly 38-year-old with a shock of blond hair, has sometimes gone over better with Alabama politicians than with starchy German executives. He has courted Mr. James since well before the 1994 election. The Governor now plays down his criticism and says he will buy one of the plant's vehicles.
For Mr. James, a prosperous businessman, financing a Mercedes is easier than financing the plant, especially because he had pledged to avoid new taxes. He backed away from using tax revenues meant for the schools after the Alabama Education Association prepared to challenge the arrangement in court. His proposal to sell bonds guaranteed by the state's companies worried business leaders. The courts struck down yet another plan to divert oil and gas tax revenues to Mercedes.
On April 1, 1995, the state missed a $43 million payment for construction. Publicly, at least, Mercedes remained patient.
Mr. James then called David G. Bronner, chief of the $16 billion state pension fund. Mr. Bronner strongly supported the Mercedes deal, though not always the state's handling of it. "The state got itself into a little bit of a bind," he said. "But my job is with the retirement fund." For a $98 million line of credit, he demanded and received 9 percent interest, virtually a junk-bond rate, about 2.5 percentage points above the usual cost.
The state's expenses mounted as other companies took advantage of incentives allowed under the Mercedes law and limited only slightly by Mr. James. When Trico Steel, a partnership of LTV, Sumitomo and British Steel, won an $85 million tax break to build a steel plant in Decatur, Ala., a competing Gulf States Steel plant in Gadsden won its own break of at least $1.5 million annually for 20 years.
Alabama could not afford to scale back its concessions much, however, after other states passed new incentive laws matching its own.
Alabama's rivals have some good reasons for jealousy. The Mercedes plant brings well-paying jobs and a dash of international prestige to a state that desperately needs both. Last month, Porsche confirmed that it was in discussions about using the plant to produce about 8,000 of its own sport utility vehicles, adding about 12 percent to the plant's planned output of 65,000 a year.
More than 40,000 workers applied for the plant's 1,200 initial jobs, at least 1,000 of which will probably be filled by Alabama residents. "It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," said James Phillips, who will lead a Mercedes quality-control and testing team. Like most of those hired, Mr. Phillips already had a good job, as an aircraft mechanic for Allied Signal.
Jobs on the plant floor pay a minimum of $12.80 an hour, rising in two years to $17.50 -- about double the state's usual rates, plus generous benefits. Mercedes, along with most other foreign car makers with plants in the United States, hopes that paying wages near union scales will keep out organized labor.
The assembly line is clanking to life with trial versions of the new Mercedes vehicles. The new model, for drivers who dream of backwoods rambles but usually venture no farther than the nearest Eddie Bauer store, will go on sale in about a year for roughly $35,000.
EVEN some people who defend the deal say the state simply should have made itself a better place to do business, especially by improving the schools. "If we had spent more money in the last 20 years on education, we would have a better-trained work force," said Bo Torbert, a former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court who successfully sued the state to improve the schools and balance spending across the state. "Maybe we wouldn't have to give as much in incentives to get Mercedes here."
The ultimate payoff for these incentives is also in question. Many of the primary Mercedes suppliers lured to Alabama also received concessions -- costing in the millions, perhaps tens of millions.
The state's economic impact study assumed that Alabama would become a new Michigan: that Mercedes would concentrate its parts purchases in Alabama, much the way Detroit auto makers do in their state. In Michigan, an auto assembly job generates 9 more jobs, the highest ratio in the nation. The state study assumed that Alabama could do even better, with 10 or 11 extra jobs, for the 15,000 to 17,000 total.
Mercedes, however, is bringing engines and other parts, about 35 percent of the vehicle contents, from Germany. The Mercedes plant also appears too small to attract most of its other suppliers to Alabama. Only 10 of 71 primary suppliers to Mercedes are in the state. Michigan and Tennessee each have 8.
"The real winner in the Mercedes plant deal was not Alabama," Thomas J. Cunningham, a Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta economist, recently wrote, "but rather Tennessee." The Mercedes choice, he said, confirmed Tennessee's place as the hub of the new Southern auto industry, with plants there and in most surrounding states.
Checks with several Alabama suppliers tend to support a study commissioned by Alabama Arise, a nonprofit community group, that predicts the creation of about half as many new jobs as the state does.
The Mercedes suppliers in Alabama do much of the assembly of dashboards and other large components, which most auto makers do in their own plants. These suppliers, in turn, order a high percentage of their parts -- brakes, shock absorbers, wiring -- from other companies. Robert Birch, the Mercedes plant's purchasing chief, said that while the primary suppliers had brought Alabama about 650 jobs, the secondary suppliers would bring even more.
Several providers of Mercedes components, however, said that they bought most of their own materials from other states. "I have no suppliers in Alabama," said George J. Telenko, who manages a ZF Industries plant in Tuscaloosa that joins axles, brakes, shock absorbers, differentials and other parts.
Mercedes executives coyly note that the plant occupies only a third of the site on which it is built and that foreign producers like Toyota in Kentucky have expanded. But industry analysts say the company's success here is no sure thing. The market for sport utility vehicles has become crowded, with the Ford Explorer and Jeep Grand Cherokee being joined by several new models. "Mercedes is an extremely competent company," said David E. Cole, director of the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation at the University of Michigan. "The question is, will this market continue to be as strong?"
Already, much of the euphoria is evaporating. At Legion Field, where Olympic soccer matches were played this summer, the oversized Mercedes hood ornament came down in June to comply with a ban on commercial logos at Olympic events. It hasn't gone back up yet, as Birmingham business leaders and Mercedes executives debate where it should go and at whose expense.
Now, the three-pointed star in a circle sits fenced off in a suburban storage area. "You might think it should be lying on hallowed ground," said Walter Garrett, the manager of Legion Field. "But there it is, lying in the shambles and embarrassment of a weeded yard."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alabama has had trouble coming up with the $300 million it promised Mercedes to build a plant in the town of Vance. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Alabama called out the National Guard on a "training mission" to help clear the site for the Mercedes-Benz plant, bringing a reprimand from a local member of Congress. (Neil Brake/Tuscaloosa News); The complex includes a visitors' center, at right. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); James E. Folsom Jr., left, was defeated for re-election as Governor of Alabama in 1994 after his Republican opponent, Fob James Jr., made an issue of the subsidies given to Mercedes to attract its new plant. (Associated Press); The plant's assembly line is already turning out vehicles for testing. (Courtesy of Mercedes-Benz); Traditions mingle in Birmingham: a symbol of German industry at the Alabama-Tennessee football game after the plant site was chosen in 1993. (Courtesy of Mercedes-Benz)(pg. 10)
 
Graph: "The High Cost of Jobs" shows the per-job cost to each state in tax breaks and subsidies to lure selected auto plants. (Source: Economic Development Quarterly)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (96%); 

CITY: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: MERCEDES-BENZ AG GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCEDES-BENZ AG

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCE (ALA); ALABAMA; UNITED STATES (96%); ALABAMA, USA (96%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RELOCATIONS (60%); RETAILERS (55%); CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R JAMES E FOLSOM JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



25 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2587 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Welcome Mat Is Out For Gay Investors

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
ENCOURAGED by her employer, I.B.M., Cynthia Swain went to see a financial planner recently. But unlike many I.B.M. employees, Ms. Swain decided to go alone.
Not that she was planning only for herself. She and her domestic partner, Carrie Smith, had recently bought an apartment on the Upper West Side and needed to coordinate their investments and plan for retirement. But Ms. Swain was unsure how a lesbian couple would be treated at a large financial-services firm. 
 When Ms. Swain went to American Express Financial Advisors, one of the firms I.B.M. suggested, she didn't ask to speak to a specific planner. But the adviser assigned to her, James E. Law, happened to be gay. Instead of assuming that she was married, he referred to her spouse or partner. He talked about bringing her partner in and discussed American Express products designed for couples. "We wanted to invest together," she said, "and he understood."
American Express is working to insure that other gay and lesbian investors are similarly welcomed. The firm is recruiting gay planners and educating its advisers about the special needs of the gay market.
After decades of being spurned, gay people are being actively courted by leading firms, including Mellon Private Asset Management. Brokers and financial planners advertise in gay publications and show up at gay events. A flurry of products and services are being introduced, from a mutual fund that invests solely in gay-friendly companies to a new investment advisory firm in Oakland, Calif., that focuses on socially responsible investing for gay people.
It is not hard to see why many firms are after this business: many gay people live in dual-income households with no children, so they often have substantial sums to invest. "People are waking up to the demographics," said Michael Lowery Tracy, a broker for Merrill Lynch in New York.
And Grant Lukenbill, author of "Untold Millions: Positioning Your Business for the Gay and Lesbian Consumer Revolution" (Harperbusiness, 1995) said, "This is really the dawning of the golden age of gay and lesbian visibility."
The financial-services industry is beginning to understand that all investors are not male or white or straight or descended from Mayflower stock. Gay people are just one of many groups being courted. Most big brokerage houses conduct investment seminars geared to women, and the Calvert Group, a mutual fund company, offers a fund that invests in African companies to appeal to black Americans. Merrill Lynch plans to help its brokers attract more Hispanic and Asian clients, while American Express Financial Advisors also aims for female, black and Hispanic investors.
But while skeptics point out that financial needs depend more on one's economic status than ethnic group, gay people do have distinct requirements in areas like estate planning, because the legal protections of marriage are not available to them. Advisers, then, must do more than pass the comfort test -- they need a certain expertise.
The concerns of gay men and lesbians run from knowing how to leave one's estate to an unmarried partner to saving for retirement if only one partner has a pension. Some might want to know how to invest their money only in companies that do not discriminate against gay people.
The best advisers are those familiar with these and related issues. "You have to ask a lot of questions," said Christopher Sheldon, a portfolio manager for Mellon Private Asset Management in Newport Beach, Calif. "You have to ask the right questions, and the only way to do that is to have experience in the community."
Like the public at large, more gay men and lesbians are investing in a socially responsible way. But just as Jews may not want to invest in a new Israeli mutual fund and blacks may not be best served by buying stock in every black-owned company, experts say gay men and lesbians should look beyond a social agenda or a sympathetic marketing pitch. Any investment has to make financial sense, and investors may be better off choosing their own stocks and funds rather than paying someone a fee.
"There's a certain amount of opportunism out there," warned Gregg Onofrio, the president of Christopher Street Financial, a New York City brokerage firm with a predominantly gay clientele, who is a critic of strategies that focus only on socially responsible investments.
THE big firms want gay customers, but they are not going after the business too publicly. While Mr. Tracy has conducted seminars for gay organizations, has advertised in gay publications and has set up a booth at the gay and lesbian business expo in New York, few big brokerage or financial-service firms are willing to undertake national marketing campaigns -- wary, perhaps, of criticism from those who disapprove of homosexuality. American Express, which has sponsored gay events and publishes a pamphlet featuring same-sex couples, will run its first national ads in gay publications this fall.
Most of the focus is local, with some firms working to make gay clients comfortable. Investors do not want to think people are laughing at them around the water cooler when they come in with their partners to talk to brokers. One woman, who insisted on anonymity, recalled a meeting in which she and her partner drew up wills with a lawyer. After they named each other as beneficiaries, the lawyer turned to the woman's partner and asked, "What if she decides to get married?" Now, the woman says, she will seek professionals who take her lesbian relationship seriously.
Finding someone with a broad investing and financial planning background is also important. Although Jack Schlegel, a gay man retired from an advertising agency, knew that he and Mr. Tracy of Merrill Lynch had a lot in common, having both been involved with theater companies, he became a client only after he and his accountant interviewed Mr. Tracy and were satisfied with his investment approach.
Many gay people feel they have no need for financial planning. With no children to put through college or hefty mortgage payments on large suburban homes, many consider it "a straight man's burden," said Peter M. Berkery Jr., author of "Personal Financial Planning for Gays and Lesbians" (Irwin Professional Publishing, 1996).
Consider Michael Kaminer, a 29-year-old gay man who runs his own public relations firm in Manhattan. Only at a friend's urging did he decide to talk to a financial planner, Mr. Law of American Express. "It didn't occur to me," Mr. Kaminer acknowledged. "I'm single with no plans to have kids or get married. It didn't seem necessary."
Mr. Kaminer soon discovered that there were issues he needed to address beyond building up his savings, like getting disability insurance. When it comes to investing, though, he remains a neophyte. His money was in a savings account, which he recently called "the dumbest possible thing."
For some gay people, where they invest is an ethical issue as well as a financial one. They "shouldn't abdicate their vote at the ballot box, and they shouldn't abdicate their vote in investments," said Howard Tharsing, a former stockbroker who recently started V Management, an Oakland, Calif., investment advisory firm with about $5 million in assets that focuses on socially responsible investing for gay people.
Having discovered this market, other firms are offering to screen investments for gay men and lesbians who want to invest in companies they consider progressive. When making investments, the Calvert funds take into account companies' policies toward homosexuals, and Progressive Asset Management, a brokerage firm in Oakland, also makes gay-friendly investments. In June, the first mutual fund with a stated purpose of investing only in gay-friendly companies, the independently managed Meyers Sheppard Pride fund, began operations and has already attracted $500,000.
"This is a demographic receiving more and more attention, and it seemed to me like a no-brainer," said Shelly J. Meyers, a founder and the fund's portfolio manager.
For some people, the idea of investing in companies deemed sympathetic to gay people is appealing. "I really want to see this economic clout from this community," said Patricia Holt, the book review editor for The San Francisco Chronicle. Because she invests in companies like Microsoft, Disney and Chiron, stocks recommended by Mr. Tharsing, she is not worried about sacrificing quality in her portfolio.
But the debate over whether investors must trade potential returns for clean consciences continues to be heated. The performance of socially conscious funds has been, "as a whole, uninspiring," said Alice Lowenstein of Morningstar Inc., the mutual fund research firm in Chicago.
While fans of socially conscious investing argue that a skilled manager should have no trouble matching anyone's performance, investors should be prepared to risk lower returns or higher volatility. "Any time you limit the playing field," said Theodore Eastwick of Christopher Street Financial, "you assume an uncommon risk."
Both Ms. Meyers and Mr. Tharsing emphasize that they are willing to buy stock only in gay-friendly companies that are also good investments. Ms. Meyers said she had already identified 375 gay-friendly public companies; at the least, the companies have a policy of not discriminating in their hiring on the basis of sexual orientation.
"I expect to be judged by the same yardstick as any mutual fund," she said -- by how well she conserves capital and makes money over the long term.
For now, however, investors must take a leap of faith: Ms. Meyers, a former analyst and assistant portfolio manager for Boston Company Asset Management, has experience only at running private accounts. But she is unconcerned about proving herself a capable manager. "Over time, the numbers aren't going to lie," she said.
Whether or not gay men and lesbians need their own mutual funds, there is little question that they need financial plans tailored to them. Unmarried people, gay or straight, cannot rely on many protections that are available to married couples.
Until marriage is opened to same-sex couples -- "the only sane solution," said Mr. Berkery, the author -- one crucial area is estate planning.
"Many of our clients haven't done enough estate planning," said David R. Holst, California regional sales manager for Mellon Private Asset Management. "Since the laws are very silent, you have to go out of the way and define who your beneficiaries are."
The first and foremost piece of advice offered by financial planners: draft a will. Horror stories abound about gay partners of 40 years being thrown out of homes when someone dies, or hostile families denying partners access to their loved ones' funerals. "They don't have the legal protection a married couple does," said Susan North, a financial adviser with American Express in Troy, Mich. In some cases, a gay couple must consider the possibility that a will would be contested and the case heard by an unsympathetic court.
A gay couple with children must also be explicit about who inherits what. If one partner is the biological mother and dies without leaving specific directions, her estate will pass to her child, not her partner. To be awarded custody of the child, the other mother must try to adopt or be named a guardian.
Even buying a life insurance policy in which a gay man names his partner as the beneficiary can be complicated. Insurance companies frequently require the beneficiary to have "an insurable interest" in the person being insured. Exactly what constitutes an insurable interest is subject to debate, although sharing a mortgage or a bank account might qualify, depending on the state of residence or the insurance company.
But for a gay man with no family to support, there may be no need for a $1 million policy, Mr. Eastwick noted. "Many of our clients come to us overinsured," he said, and the money being spent on the policy could be put to better use elsewhere.
One of the most challenging aspects of estate planning for a gay couple is trying to avoid that tax bite. Unlike a married couple, who can pass as much as they want to each other and shelter as much as $1.2 million of their income, a gay couple must worry about taxes if one of them has an estate worth more than $600,000. Some states also levy inheritance taxes that are particularly onerous to anyone who is not a blood relative. The use of a trust or a transfer of property can help alleviate the problem.
Even owning assets together can be problematic. If a lesbian owns a house and wants to give half of it to her partner, she may incur the gift tax. She gets a one-time exclusion from the gift and estate tax of $600,000, but giving one person more than $10,000 a year will whittle that exclusion away and may cause estate tax problems later. To avoid tax woes, the lesbian partner who is receiving a share of the property could be given a $10,000 share of the house each year until she owns half of it. Depending on state law, other possibilities include writing a quitclaim deed bequeathing the partner half the property, but not filing the document unless the partner who owned the house dies first.
Retirement planning also becomes more complex because the surviving partner in a gay couple cannot inherit all of the other's benefits. If his partner dies, a gay man will not receive his partner's Social Security benefits and is frequently unable to inherit his partner's pension. A retirement plan that is completely financed by an employer generally limits the beneficiary to the employee's spouse -- unless the employee has already begun to make withdrawals.
As a result, even if one member of a gay couple has a generous retirement package, the other must still save as if he were single. He may also have little recourse if the two break up and may not be able to count on the support of children or grandchildren later in life. "There may be a greater need for accumulating and investing assets," Ms. North of American Express said.
THE tax consequences of inheriting a retirement plan also become much more of a headache. Because he is not married, a gay man named the beneficiary of his partner's plan must take a distribution from the plan and pay taxes within five years of his partner's death, although a spouse can defer the distribution until retirement.
But because the partners are not married, they may be able to use individual retirement accounts more to their advantage. While someone who is married may not contribute to a deductible individual retirement account if the couple earn too much, a lesbian partner can count only her income in determining her eligibility. But the other partner is not allowed to make spousal contributions for her.
There is other good tax news for gay people. "There are a lot of creative things you can to do to save a ton of money," Ms. North said. Gay and lesbian couples are not subject to the marriage penalty, and may be able to shift interest or rental income to the partner making less. When they reach 55, they can each take the once-in-a-lifetime exclusion of $125,000 on any capital gains from the sale of a residence.
All the attention from brokers and planners means that gay men and lesbians may finally start getting good advice on how to deal with all these issues. "We want to protect our resources for our partners and our loved ones," Ms. Swain said. "We are trying to build a future together."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carrie Smith, left, and Cynthia Swain appreciated the sensitivity of their financial planner at American Express. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); A financial planner urged Michael Kaminer to address issues beyond his savings. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 
Chart: "Unwed? Be Wary"
Financial planning for gay men and lesbians requires special care, because an unmarried couple cannot count on the protections that married couples take for granted. Here are some factors to consider:
 
* You may not be able to count on your partner's pension if he or she dies. A retirement plan fully financed by an employer usually limits beneficiaries to spouses. You are also not entitled to each other's Social Security benefits.
 
* Unlike married couples, you cannot pass to one another assets of more than $10,000 a year without exhausting the $600,000 gift and estate tax exclusion you might want at death.
 
* When you buy life insurance on your partner, the insurer frequently requires you to show an "insurable interest," like owning a house together.
 
* If you split up with your partner and want to transfer the title of your residence to him or her, the mortgage company can require you to seek a new mortgage for the property. A married couple getting divorced would be able to receive a transfer of ownership from the court, which would avoid the need for a new mortgage.
 
* When the two of you reach 55, you can each take the once-in-a-lifetime exclusion of $125,000 on any capital gains you generate when selling a residence, for a total tax break of $250,000. A married couple is entitled to only one exclusion.
(Sources: American Express Financial Advisors and "Personal Financial Planning for Gays and Lesbians" (Irwin Professional Publishing, 1996))(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); CALVERT GROUP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; HOMOSEXUALITY; WILLS AND ESTATES; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ETHICAL INVESTING (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (74%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (73%); ESTATE PLANNING (73%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); BONDS (71%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ETHNICITY (62%); WILLS (60%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED CYNTHIA SWAIN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



26 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B, HERRING

 BODY:

REAL AND UNREAL ESTATE
 
One's for Sale; the Other Isn't
Two families want very much to be living in the White House next year. It's not for sale, of course (not in any literal sense, anyway). But Coldwell Banker, feeling fanciful, calculated that if it were, it would bring nearly $64 million. (Monthly mortgage payment: $600,000.) What sent Coldwell Banker on this flight of fancy? Maybe it's that there is a White House lookalike for sale in Hillsborough, Calif. Which is which? Hint: you can have the bottom one for a mere $8.5 million.
 
THE PRESIDENT
 
This House Is Your House
Few people, it seems, actually pay capital-gains taxes when they sell their houses. The thought of writing a check for $20,000, $50,000 or whatever is so traumatic that they usually find a way around it, whether by buying a fancier house, waiting till they're 55 and taking the one-time exemption, or perhaps misremembering just how much that new deck cost (thus shrinking their reported profit). So if people avoid the tax anyway, why not scrap it? That was apparently President Clinton's reasoning when he suggested last week that profits up to $500,000 be tax-free for a couple. He also obviously figured that the idea would get him a few votes, even though it is clearly a tax break for the better off (isn't that what Democrats accuse Republicans of promising?). But just think of the American pastime that would vanish: wiggling out of that tax.
 
THE PRESIDENT AGAIN
 
That Welfare Albatross
Mr. Clinton has one albatross that liberals can't forget -- that harsh welfare bill -- and he would dearly love to shake free of it. His latest attempt: proposing to give employers who hire welfare recipients a 50 percent tax credit on the first $10,000 paid to each worker. Enterprising American businesses, though, are adept at wriggling through every loophole they can find. Some less scrupulous ones might see this as an opportunity to hire workers, keep them on the payroll till the meter hits $10,000, then dismiss them and hire others. A sad revolving door that would be.
 
ECONOMIC GROWTH
 
A Bridge Too Soon?
Bob Dole wants faster economic growth -- though not, presumably, just yet. He'd prefer to turn it into a winning campaign issue first. But the economy rather impolitely ignored Mr. Dole's political calendar, with the latest figures showing faster-than-expected growth -- a 4.8 percent annual rate -- in the latest quarter. Maybe this was fate's little gift to Bill Clinton, who at his crowning moment had to contend with that messy business with Dick Morris. But it was no gift to Wall Street: investors are more afraid of inflation than of invading aliens, and stock prices, which had bounced back nicely from their summer wanderings, went into a two-day funk. You can't please everyone.
 
TOBACCO WARS
 
The Al Gore Smoke-Out
If Al Gore ever runs for President, he can forget about tobacco contributions. There's a lot of talk about Democrats flitting from principle to principle, but in his convention speech Mr. Gore was laser-sharp in his attack on smoking. Yes, he once took tobacco money and even grew tobacco, but that seems firmly behind him. But is Philip Morris worried about all the attacks on tobacco? Apparently not, for it raised its dividend the same day -- it has now done so 32 times in 29 years. The Target store chain may be worried, though. Saying it is too costly to make sure minors don't buy cigarettes, it is simply not selling them any more. The car-racing industry is definitely worried. This sport has grown for years with tobacco sponsorship -- perhaps $250 million a year of it -- and if the new marketing rules take effect, it could be devastating.
 
ENDORSEMENT HEAVEN
 
Million-Dollar Putts
In his amazing comeback in the United States Amateur golf tournament, Tiger Woods repeatedly came within a few blades of grass of losing. So here's the question: Was he also within a few blades of grass of losing that $40 million that Nike's paying him now that he's turned pro? Talk about pressure! Talk about the turf gods smiling! But enough what-ifs. He did win. He did turn pro. And as a celebrity endorser, he's instantly up there with the big guns. Not bad for a 20-year-old who doesn't come close to being 7 feet tall, and who has nothing more strenuous to do than stroll across some absurdly well-manicured parks and swing a club occasionally.
 
USED CARS
 
Recycling (the Dark Side)
In some ways, the information age is a one-way affair. Big Marketing Brother knows all about you -- what you owe, what you buy, probably what you think. It's right there in the computer. But what if you want information on, say, that used car you're buying? How do you know if you're buying someone else's lemon? Often you don't, and you'll have a hard time finding out. Some states make dealers tell you, others don't, and some people are accusing car makers of shuffling cars around to lemon-friendly states. And there's enough for an ocean of lemonade: car makers buy back some 50,000 defective cars and trucks yearly. A reject might pass from driver to driver to driver, with each in turn forced to fight for justice (and borrow a car to get to court?). Now consumer advocates, rejecting the notion that state-by-state justice works, are pushing for uniform Federal disclosure laws. In the meantime, kick those tires.
 
NUCLEAR DEBRIS
 
Save the World? Does It Pay?
Those enlightened souls who gave us the cold war have left us quite a mess -- all sorts of stuff lying around that could be turned into devastating bombs. The stuff in the old Soviet Union may pose the biggest hazard, given the turmoil there, so the United States has set up a corporation to buy some of it before it falls into dangerous hands. A noble pursuit, surely, with the Earth's fate in the balance. But has capitalism reared its accountant's head? There are accusations that at the United States Enrichment Corporation, as it's called, thoughts have drifted to enriching itself -- that, its eye on the bottom line, it failed to buy some available uranium. If so, that's a strange way to save the planet.
 
EXILES
 
Caught in the Cuba Triangle
Is your enemy's enemy automatically your friend? America certainly thought so throughout the cold war, aiding dictator and rebel alike -- if you were anti-Communist, you qualified. Period. But where does Robert Vesco fit in this neat equation? Facing six Federal indictments on charges of everything from skimming from a mutual fund to making illegal contributions to Richard Nixon, Mr. Vesco is clearly no friend of this country. But now Cuba, also no friend of this country, has turned on him, too. After providing him a comfortable exile for years, Cuba sentenced him last week to 13 years in prison for fraud. That leaves an unbending triangle of enmity. By that original equation, we would provide Mr. Vesco a haven from our common island foe. Don't count on it.
 
THE T.W.A. CRASH
 
Enter the Bill Collector
 
As the search dragged on for bodies and clues and debris from the T.W.A. crash, no one discussed the cost -- though this was clearly a hugely expensive effort. Mentioning money, presumably, would have seemed tasteless; it had to be done, no matter the price. But with the bills piling high, the taboo has been broken. With items like salvage ships at $60,000 a day, the total is nearing $10 million -- by far the most expensive such operation ever -- and people are asking who's going to pay. The National Transportation Safety Board asked T.W.A. for $5 million, but the airline responded, "We think this is a Government expenditure." And insurers are saying they pay only for environmental cleanups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAX LAW (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



27 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: If We Were Serious

BYLINE: By Richard Darman; Richard Darman is former Director of the Office of Management and Budget (1989-93) and author of "Who Is in Control?"

 BODY:
The prime-time convention shows have come to their balloon-drop endings. The mini-movies, zingers and dramatic speeches are over. What follows now, we are told, is the "serious campaign."
That is a notion which many would dismiss as oxymoronic. But it has the virtue of suggesting an interesting question: What important issues might the candidates address if the campaign actually were serious? 
 The question is not put to dismiss what has been presented so far. Bill Clinton and Bob Dole have both recognized that a governing majority requires far broader appeal than either party's traditional base provides. They have both broadened their reach.
Bob Dole has distanced himself from the dour anti-government focus of the House Republicans by selecting Jack Kemp -- signaling an interest in growth, while underlining his commitment to equal opportunity, inclusiveness and tolerance. Bill Clinton has adopted a Reaganesque command of symbols and ceremony, declaring "hope is back." And he has again reversed himself on welfare and taxes, asserting "the era of big government is over."
How much of this is to be taken seriously, others may judge. Choices have been framed: whether to continue on the current path or pursue a bolder reach for growth; to rely on government or "trust the people"; to "bridge" forward or back to the future. The problem is that such formulations, though important, are abstract. As presented by the major candidates, they barely touch fundamental issues America must face.
One such issue, growing middle-class entitlements, was mentioned in a convention speech, but not by any of the candidates. Colin Powell warned of "condemning our children and grandchildren with a crushing burden of debt that will deny them the American Dream." He noted, "We all need to understand it is the entitlement state that must be reformed, and not just the welfare state." Virtually all serious analysts agree: if entitlements are not reformed before the baby-boom generation reaches age 60, the feel-good talk about recent progress on the deficit will be replaced by a sense of crisis.
The sensible course is to avoid a baby-boomer retirement shock by addressing the problem well in advance. But the major candidates either pretend the problem does not exist, propose to hand it to a commission, or wish it away with heroic assumptions about economic growth. Indeed, while sidestepping the problem, the candidates actually act as if government were going to be long, not short, on revenue. Without providing credible proposals for spending reduction, both candidates offer the voters attractive tax cuts -- what Ross Perot has termed "free candy just before elections."
The facts are these, however: There are good reasons public policy should seek to increase growth. These range from interests in reducing the deficit and financing Social Security to increasing opportunity for the poor and improving the quality of life for all. But growth is limited by labor-force participation and the rate of increase in productivity. These can and should be improved by cutting marginal tax rates and the tax on capital gains. But significant improvements in productivity also require radical improvements in education and training, and major breakthroughs in research and development. These, in turn, require the expenditure of political and financial capital. Even with these, the likely increase in growth would not suffice to offset too much free candy.
In any case, major improvements in long-term productivity growth take time to achieve. Meanwhile, the deficit cannot be eliminated by focusing on non-entitlements and using the new line-item veto. The "anti-government" public and politicians care too much about expenditures for law enforcement, immigration control, drug abuse prevention, air safety, environmental protection, biomedical research, and so on. So if the baby-boomers are to avoid a shock, if the deficit is to be kept under control, and if a tax increase is to be avoided, entitlement reform will have to be faced promptly.
This issue is at the heart of the budget problem. Yet if it were merely budgetary, it would long since have been solved. The dilemma is that entitlements principally involve the broad American middle that is key to electoral success. That is why entitlements are the "third rail" of American politics and lend themselves to demagoguery. They are treated simplistically though they involve complex questions: Who in the middle class should be protected against exactly what risks? What should be the relative responsibility of government and individuals in assuring risk protection? What are the obligations of working generations to generations too young or too old to work? Leadership is needed to help frame responsible answers to just such difficult questions. Yet no candidate has trusted the people enough to risk a serious discussion.
A second fundamental problem is as obvious as the first and as unattended: America's decomposing inner cities. Clearly, talk of hope, history and the American Dream is hollow if it does not address the large population trapped in ghettos. Urban ghettos represent a moral failure and a substantial economic cost. Indeed, if left unattended, the de civilizing effects of urban neglect may pose a more widespread threat to the American Dream. Yet this problem, too, has difficulty attracting a serious word.
Jack Kemp deserves credit for being among the few major politicians to put the urban problem on the national agenda. But, unfortunately, putting this problem on the agenda and offering viable solutions are not necessarily the same. Jobs must be created near blighted areas, and tax incentives could help. But they cannot possibly suffice. A zero capital gains rate will not counter the fear of random violence or organized mayhem. Low marginal rates alone will not produce healthy role models or families, effective education, a reduction in drug abuse, or the basics of a civilized infrastructure. Given the scale of the urban problem, very large amounts of public and private investment are required. And while the investment may pay for itself over generations, in the near term it means that in addition to tax incentives there must be significant spending. Yet these days, no major politician seems willing to admit publicly that great dreams cannot be achieved on the cheap.
A third fundamental problem is not quite as obvious as the first two. It is the flip side of a good thing: Americans can expect to live longer. The Census Bureau estimates that, in 2010, there will be more than 40 million Americans aged 65 and over. Six million will be 85 and over -- and that is before the baby-boomers reach 85. With breakthroughs in biomedical research, these numbers will be even more compelling. There is not only a very large generation headed toward retirement. But in the move from the 20th to the 21st century, something close to an additional generation is being added to expected life.
This will necessitate a minor cultural and economic revolution. It is not merely an issue of entitlement finance. Retirement ages will have to increase. Job and retraining opportunities will have to be developed. New community-living arrangements will have to be expanded. Profound issues of morality will have to be confronted.
Bob Dole has spoken eloquently of the "gracious compensations of age." At 73, he is healthy and active -- a symbol of the enormous potential represented by the growing numbers of healthy older Americans. He is perfectly positioned to raise national consciousness about the risks and opportunities presented by the aging of America.
As the campaign moves into its "serious" phase, however, it may be naive to imagine that candidates might actually treat us as if we could face serious problems seriously. Bill Clinton has had four years to address these problems and has not yet done so. And while elections elicit new proposals, they rarely produce serious discussion. The politicians are, naturally enough, trying to get elected. To get them to be serious, we ourselves would have to be serious. And if balloons, simple nostrums and promises of free candy are all we demand, that is probably about all we will get.

GRAPHIC: Drawings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; URBAN AREAS; AGED CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BUDGETS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%); 

PERSON: DARMAN, RICHARD G BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



28 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Panic Stations;
Does Cost Outweigh Risk in the War on Terror?

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE vaunted military and security organs of the United States, bereft of the clarity of the Soviet enemy or the probability of traditional war, have turned considerable attention and resources to the scourge of international terrorism, the weapon of the weak and dispossessed.
President Clinton calls international terrorism the greatest security threat to the United States. Secretary of Defense William J. Perry estimates that the United States Government alone spends $5 billion a year combating terrorism. 
 That figure is likely to be dwarfed by what the private sector spends in increased security at airports and telephone switching centers, let alone in the time lost to Americans as they wait for increasingly long periods in an increasing number of lines.
But there seems to be an extraordinary disconnect between all this furor and the actual damage inflicted on the United States and Americans. In 1994 and 1995 combined, exactly 16 Americans died in acts of international terrorism, defined by the State Department as involving citizens or territory of more than one country. The year before, 57 Americans died when struck by lightning.
Even if one includes the 168 dead from the domestic bombing of the Federal building in Oklahoma City in April 1995 and the 19 servicemen killed last June in the bombing of the American military barracks in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia -- or the 230 people who died on T.W.A. Flight 800, possibly downed by terrorists -- the figures pale next to the 42,000 Americans who died in 1993 from motor-vehicle accidents or the 31,000 Americans who killed themselves that year.
And worldwide, the number of deaths from terrorism dropped to 44 in the first six months of 1996, compared with 85 in the same period last year.
Richard N. Haass, who is about to become director of foreign-policy studies at the Brookings Institution, likened the tradeoff between cost and risk to insurance. "What sort of a premium are we willing to pay as a society for this insurance policy, in costs and liberties," he asked, "and what sort of risk will we tolerate?"
The premium seems high right now, he believes, but it will grow. Given America's openness and its dependence on vulnerable centralized systems for water delivery, telephone service and transport, he said, "we've gotten off pretty easily."
Terrorism has a sharp political cost in that no Government can be seen to be doing nothing, even in the face of ambiguous evidence, says Morton Abramowitz, director of the Carnegie Endowment. "To find the right balance in dealing with terrorism is very difficult," he said, "and like our drug policy, it's very heavily politically determined."
 
Terror Without Purpose
 Walter Laqueur, the author of two influential books, "Terrorism" and "Guerrilla," thinks the cost of fighting terrorism, given the panic and death it causes, will only increase. His concern, he said, is the access to modern technology and scientific expertise of various new terrorist groups, some very small and sectarian or millenarian, "to whom no intelligence agency has paid too much attention.
"We seem to be coming to the age of purposeless terrorism," he said. "The smaller the group, the less clear the aims and the greater likelihood they just want to destroy."
Terrorists have so far used conventional weapons against specific targets, like airplanes and buildings, rather than unconventional weapons, like nerve gas or biological poisons, against larger targets.
In the 1960's, says Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the American military conducted secret "field trials" of anthrax spores, dumping a safe facsimile on commuters leaving Grand Central Station in Manhattan and letting the wind carry more to shore from a ship anchored near Atlantic City. The military concluded that 65 pounds of anthrax, released without a sophisticated delivery system, would be equivalent to a small nuclear weapon.
But the real goal of terrorism is affecting politics and strategy, causing incapacity, intimidation and enormous pressure on the part of a victimized Government to strike back somewhere. As Mr. Laqueur says, "the real danger now is not the damage that can be done but the panic and the reaction of the public, which is not prepared," especially in a country that has become so intolerant of casualties, even in war.
In the current furor, there are already calls for harsher laws and less worry about civil liberties. In foreign-policy terms, unilateral American efforts to isolate and sanction "rogue nations" that sponsor terrorism, like Iran, have not only elicited little support among allies but produced new resentments and divisions among them, without much damage to the target.
 
Waging War
 William E. Odom, a retired general, former director of the National Security Agency and director of counterterrorism in the Carter White House, says context is everything. No act of terrorism has ever brought down a democracy, he says, while the leverage of the terrorist depends on the political and psychological reaction to the act. "I came to a fairly simple view," he said. "Terrorism at home is crime; terrorism abroad is war."
Washington has lots of capacity to handle both crime and war, Mr. Odom said, but operational tactics and intelligence -- which by themselves do not involve large new expenditures -- need to be improved. "I have no problems with economic sanctions as an instrument of diplomacy," he added. "But if it's an act of war, why not act militarily?"
While retaliation must depend on evidence, some suggest that America's threat to retaliate lacks credibility. Richard Perle, a former Assistant Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, finds it absurd that Washington merely demands that Libya turn over the men indicted for the 1988 Pan Am bombing. Mr. Reagan, after determining Libyan complicity in an attack on American servicemen in a Berlin discotheque in 1986, ordered the bombing of Col. Muammar Qaddafi's residence in Tripoli. "We were serious about it and retaliated in a way Qaddafi understood," Mr. Perle said, "and he behaved differently for years."
"Sanctions are rapidly becoming the alternative to a serious policy on almost everything," he added. "The resort to them often reflects a lack of will," which is well understood by both the intended target and reluctant allies.
The result, Mr. Haass says, is "a foreign policy of appearances, which is about how you position yourself with a domestic audience rather than the real concerns, which are about whether you're alienating your friends or influencing your adversaries."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Statistically, Americans have little to fear from international terrorism, but billions of dollars are being spent every year on antiterrorism measures, including state-of-the-art bomb-detection machines like this one at Hartsfield Airport in Atlanta. (Rich Addicks/Atlanta Journal Constitution)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; FINANCES TERRORISM (95%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); DRUG POLICY (62%); WRITERS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



29 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: LONE RANGERS;
For Both Dole and Clinton, Congress Can Be a Real Problem

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
THE argument was made time and again last week at the Democratic National Convention: Bill Clinton must be re-elected, because a Democratic President is the last line of defense against an onslaught by a reactionary Republican Congress.
It was a main theme, for instance, of Vice President Al Gore's speech Wednesday. "They want someone in that Oval Office who will rubber-stamp their plan," Mr. Gore said of the Republicans. "That's why they want to replace Bill Clinton. But we won't let them." 
 A new Democratic television advertisement being broadcast around the country asserts, "Next year, if Newt Gingrich controls Congress and his partner Bob Dole enters the Oval Office, there'll be nobody there to stop them."
What goes unsaid is that this argument presumes that in November the Republicans will retain control of Congress, which they took from the Democrats just two years ago. That is a fairly good bet. But it is by no means a sure thing.
Charles E. Cook Jr., who publishes a political newsletter and who is viewed in Washington as the most reliable nonpartisan handicapper of Congressional races, figures that Democrats have, perhaps, a 40 percent chance of regaining control of the House and a 1 in 3 chance of winning the Senate.
But members of Congress played only a bit part here last week. Those who spoke did so, for the most part, well before prime time on television. And when the main speakers like Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore and the keynoter, Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana, referred to the Congressional races at all, they did so only in passing.
At their convention in San Diego, Republicans shrank from mentioning their control of Congress. Speaker Gingrich, who two years ago was the man most responsible for Republicans' winning a majority of the House and Senate for the first time in 40 years, was kept under tight wraps. No mention was made of the Contract With America, the manifesto on which many Republican Congressional candidates ran in 1994. In his speech accepting his party's nomination, Bob Dole, who spent most of his adult life in Congress, did not talk at all about Congress or his service there.
In one respect, it is no surprise that Congress took a back seat at the conventions. After all, the main focus of party conventions is the Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates. This is doubly true when the nominees are incumbents.
"I guess I do feel like something of a stepchild," said Representative Robert T. Matsui of California. Mr. Matsui, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, recalled that at the Democratic convention in New York four years ago, he ran a seminar on the economy for a group of lobbyists. Last week, he noted, that job went to an Administration official, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin.
But to an unusual extent, both Presidential candidates this year are running their campaigns independent of the Congressional elections. The reason is no mystery. Congress as an institution is even more unpopular than usual. And while Mr. Gingrich is worshiped by his acolytes, polls show that he is one of the most disliked politicians in America.
 
Still Disapproving
 As recently as June, the New York Times/CBS News poll found that 71 percent of the public disapproved of the way Congress was handling its job, while 19 percent approved. In August, after a spasm of bill-passing, the public's view improved somewhat. But people still disapproved of what Congress was doing, by 52 percent to 32 percent.
In addition, a sizable proportion of Americans like the idea of divided Government. A New York Times/CBS News poll in July found that as a general proposition, almost as many people (34 percent) thought the country was better off with the White House and Congress controlled by different parties as thought it would be better to have them run by the same party (43 percent). Furthermore, by a margin of 56 percent to 32 percent, people said that if Republicans kept control of Congress, it would be better to re-elect President Clinton "to limit the power of Republicans in Congress" than it would be to elect a Republican President to strengthen the hand of Congress.
What this means for Mr. Dole is that he must distance himself as much as possible from Congress in general and Mr. Gingrich in particular.
As for Mr. Clinton, he recognizes that voters know much better what they do not want than what they do want. At this moment, what voters do not want most of all is for the Republican Congress to go unchecked. So it behooves Mr. Clinton to keep raising that prospect.
That leaves the Democratic candidates for Congress high and dry. But from Mr. Clinton's perspective, they have little to offer him. He became much stronger politically when he was able to block Republican initiatives than he was when he was trying to promote his own agenda with a Democratic Congress. And there is a strong sense, as the party's general chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, acknowledged in an interview last week, that the Democrats in Congress do not know what they would do if they won back a majority.
Even so, the prospects for a Democratic victory in Congress this year are much brighter than they appeared even a few months ago. For the Democrats to win the House, they must win a net of about 20 seats; to win the Senate, they must gain 3 seats.
 
The Democrats' Edge
 In a CBS News poll released late last week, likely voters said by 45 percent to 36 percent that they would vote for a Democratic candidate for the House. Such a poll says nothing about individual races. But political analysts use these numbers as an indicator of the direction the election is taking. The Democrats' nine-point lead is greater than the one Republicans enjoyed when they won the House in 1994.
Based on a seat-by-seat analysis, Mr. Cook, the handicapper of Congressional races, said he thought there was "a very, very strong chance" that Democrats would knock off 25 to 30 Republicans. The question, he said, is how many seats Republicans will pick up that are now Democratic; a number of senior Democrats, many from the South, are retiring in districts that have voted heavily Republican in other races recently.
The situation in the Senate is much less settled than usual. Since World War II, 79 percent of Senators who have run for re-election have won, and the most open seats in any election was 10 in 1978. But this year, 14 Senators -- 8 Democrats and 6 Republicans -- are retiring, and most of those seats are up for grabs.
These races for the House and Senate will be run parallel to the Presidential campaign, not in conjunction with it. But a Republican strategist who is advising several candidates for Congress said that after watching the Democratic convention, he would advise his clients to sing the same song as the Democrats.
"I'm telling them," the strategist said, "to take the position, 'We've got to have a Republican Congress. Otherwise, Bill Clinton will have a free hand to do everything he wants.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Democratic National Convention, closing in a confetti storm, was the President's show. Lesser Democrats, who have a chance of retaking Congress, had bit parts. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); EVAN BAYH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



30 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/Radical Nerds;
The 60's Had Free Love; The 90's Have Free Information

BYLINE: By GREGORY JORDAN 

 BODY:
LEE FELSENSTEIN didn't go to Chicago for the Democratic National Convention in 1968. He didn't make it to Chicago this year, either. Both times he had his hands full as a revolutionary.
In 1968, "I remember that I was busy designing a prototype cardboard riot helmet that could be self-manufactured on the spot in places like Chicago," said Mr. Felsenstein, who, when he was not designing defensive clothing, was writing for the underground newspaper The Berkeley Barb. "I also had been analyzing proposals for jamming police radio." 
 This year, Mr. Felsenstein, who built some of the first personal computers in the 70's, was busy with what he calls his side project: computer-based community organizing. His regular job is developing new types of information technology at the Interval Research Corporation in Palo Alto, Calif., and his passion is refurbishing obsolete computer hardware and using it to help turn on communities that aren't tuned into the information revolution.
 
Revolution Realized
 As a respected elder of the hackers, the computer-obsessed members of the counter culture, the 51-year-old Mr. Felsenstein is heeded when he makes pronouncements. And he believes that the radicalism of the 1960's, which was treated all last week in Chicago as a curious cultural artifact, is actually closer than ever to realizing its goal of decentralizing American political and economic power.
"Revolutions succeed when they replace the originators of information," Mr. Felsenstein said. "We're placing the power of information on a grass-roots level by designing tools without any handles, tools for change that the power structures can't get their hands on. That wasn't true with underground print or broadcast technology."
Self-described computer nerds like Mr. Felsenstein have carried the counter culture's torch longer than most of the 60's radicals. While political activists like Tom Hayden were drifting into elected office and groups like the Weathermen and the Black Panthers were dying out, hackers were busy converting some of the chieftans of the consciousness crowd, like Timothy Leary and Stewart Brand, from L.S.D. to http.
 
The Whole Earth
 Mr. Brand, who started "The Whole Earth Catalogue" in 1968, added "The Whole Earth Software Catalogue" in 1984. In an E-mail interview, he observed that radicals "failed in such endeavors as communes, new-left politics and drugs." Nonetheless, he believes that the revolution is well under way. This revolution has its roots not in the bloody streets of Chicago in 1968, but in the cluttered California garages of computer zealots, who are still idealistic.
The radicals who survived, Mr. Brand noted, learned a tactical lesson from history: studiousness and stealth are likely to outlive street protests. "In 1972 I wrote an article for Rolling Stone titled 'Fanatic Life and Symbolic Death Among the Computer Bums,' " he said. "There wasn't another public report about hackers until Steve Levy's book 'Hackers' 10 years later. That's a measure of how overlooked the whole phenomenon was until it was way too late for the world to contain it, or co-opt it, or do anything but join it."
With no serious authority figures minding the medium, the Internet developed its own set of rules, based on libertarian ideals like free speech and the "gift economy," the exchange of information and products free of charge. The counter culture also managed to get its beliefs written into the very code of the Internet. The Net, for instance, has a distaste for advertising, which reflects its radical roots. And the non-hierarchical group called the Internet Engineering Task Force, which continually constructs features of the Internet, is, Mr. Felsenstein said, "anarchism in action."
"Human consciousness -- always a social agreement -- is taking a sharp turn into something new with the Net," Mr. Brand said. "The global, social impact of the Net revolution remains to be seen. Signs are that it will be fast, deep and out of control, just the way we liked things in the 60's."
 
The Sellouts
 Even if, in the minds of the computer faithful, the Internet has supplanted communes, narcotics and the chaos of street protests, Mr. Felsenstein still laments aspects of the revolution he helped start. He is disappointed to see hackers straying from 60's ideals. For instance, Mr. Felsenstein frowns on computer heavyweights like Bill Gates of Microsoft for valuing profit over political action.
In fact, computing billionaires draw the ire of Mr. Felsenstein more than any politician posing for the cameras. Why? Because they are more powerful and because the roots of their fortunes lie in the radical computer hacking of the 1960's.
"Today we don't have to ask permission of any politician to effect change, we have to ask Bill Gates. The planned obsolesence of their products that creates program bloating is designed for the benefit of management only," Mr. Felsenstein said.
"There's no equivalent of the Vietnam War today," he continued. "But Gates certainly could be Lyndon Johnson before the '64 election. Everyone was very hopeful about him and then on election night Johnson began planning the escalation in Vietnam."
 
The Youth of America
 Not all young computer wizards are viewed by Mr. Felsenstein as sellouts, though. Bart Decrem is a 29-year-old employee of Plugged-In, a project in East Palo Alto that provides residents with access to computers seven days a week. Mr. Decrem's current project is instructing young people how to reconfigure junked computers. Once the machines are refurbished, Plugged-In plans to sell them to people in the community for less than $100.
This undertaking is not so different from one Mr. Felsenstein began 23 years ago. In 1973, he founded the Community Memory Project to develop a computerized town bulletin board. He made sure that computers would be publicly available throughout Berkeley, and thus provided users with everything from flea markets to personal ads.
"What Lee Felsenstein did with the Community Memory Project was put public access terminals throughout Berkeley," Mr. Decrem said. "We're doing the exact same thing -- using obsolete technology to network the community. We're adopting his technology to empower people even if they have old computers. Clinton and Gore talk about the national information structure. This is the neighborhood information structure.
"We give computer classes to people going through drug recovery," he said. "We employ a graphics artist who was arrested in San Jose for his graffiti. We call people like Lee Felsenstein secret agents for the way they help us. Those folks were doing civil disobedience 30 years ago and we're doing the same thing now."
Mr. Felsenstein points to Mr. Decrem's group as an example of the revolution that arises with affordable computer hardware and software. Both men agree that the ideas of the 60's revolution have settled into a more durable cultural evolution, one that is quiet and computer crazed, just like the original hacker culture.
"I started out in my engineering career asking what qualifies as nonviolent weapons to assist the civil rights struggle," Mr. Felsenstein said. "And I'm peddling obsolete computers for grass-roots political functions today. It's the same goal: to allow the world to take itself over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Felsenstein, a 60's radical, and Bart Decrem, a 90's radical. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERVAL RESEARCH CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); RIOTS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); 

PERSON: JORDAN, GREGORY; FELSENSTEIN, LEE; BRAND, STEWART LEE FELSENSTEIN (96%); STEWART BRAND (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



31 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Why Some Vote Yes for Bosnia's Flawed Elections

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina

 BODY:
IN a large warehouse in downtown Sarajevo, thousands of ballot boxes and cartons of pens, ballot seals, ink stamps and posters are stacked up to the ceiling. The paraphernalia is now being laboriously trucked to NATO bases in Bosnia for delivery to polling centers in time for elections a week from this coming Saturday.
But the seeming efficiency of such logistical preparations cannot gloss over the absence of political preparations needed to give peace and democracy in Bosnia even a remote chance. The elections, in fact, seem set to cement in place the ethnic partition of Bosnia -- the very outcome that negotiators sought to avoid when they devised the voting as part of the Bosnian peace accord forged in Dayton, Ohio, last November.
 
The Campaign Strategy

Last week the chief international election supervisor for Bosnia, Robert Frowick, a retired American diplomat, postponed voting for municipal governments that was to have been part of the elections on Sept. 14. 
 Attacks against opposition candidates, the inability of refugees to return home and confusion over voting lists apparently convinced monitors that local balloting in disputed towns and villages would be unmanageable, with a high potential for violence. But ostensibly more manageable regional and national elections will proceed as planned, even though those races are plagued with the same problems.
Why are elections going forward when the requirements for a free vote -- like freedom of movement, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly -- are denied to most Bosnians? And what, given these conditions, are the elections meant to accomplish?
The answers lie in Washington.
The Bosnian elections have at least as much to do with the re-election strategies of the Clinton White House as with the electioneering here. A delay in the Sept. 14 vote would stir doubts among American voters about President Clinton's pledge to have American peacekeeping troops largely out of Bosnia by the end of the year. The 53,000-member NATO force in Bosnia is scheduled to begin withdrawing on Dec. 20, and Americans by and large would prefer not to have the 16,000 American troops in it stay a day longer.
But critics of many stripes are already calling for a postponement of all the voting -- among them Bob Dole, Mr. Clinton's Republican opponent, who last week in a letter to the President called the elections a "sham in the making." In any case, some extension of the NATO force's mandate, with or without a significant American component, appears likely after the American elections.
For now, however, Washington is pressing its timetable. After Mr. Frowick announced the delay in municipal elections, officials of the National Security Council warned him that they would have to be rescheduled to take place before Dec. 20. Not one of Mr. Frowick's aides believes the irregularities in the local contests can be solved by then.
Such hints of the outside world's uncertain resolve toward Bosnia are noted well in this once ethnically mixed former Yugoslav republic, now divided into Muslim, Croat and Serb enclaves after four years of war. The Bosnian Serb leadership -- responsible for the siege of Sarajevo, the execution of more than 4,000 people in Srebrenica and "ethnic cleansing" -- wants to see the elections take place as planned, too, but for reasons quite different from the Americans'. It sees them as an opportunity to ratify its wartime conquests with an international imprimatur. It is confident it will win big, because it has stacked the deck in its favor.
Outsmarting Muslim opponents, Serb leaders have exploited an election rule that allows people displaced by war to cast ballots in places where they would like to live, reardless of whether they ever resided there. The Serbs have organized 123,000 voters to register to vote in towns like Srebrenica, once mostly Muslim but now controlled by the Bosnian Serbs.
In Serb-held areas, the ruling Serbian Democratic Party makes certain that anyone foolish enough to challenge its supremacy is subject to intimidation or worse. Its will is enforced by the Bosnian Serb army, controlled by Gen. Ratko Mladic, and the police, loyal to Radovan Karadzic, the Serbs' political leader. General Mladic and Mr. Karadzic remain the party's powers behind the scenes even though as indicted war criminals they have been required to yield influence under the Dayton peace process.
"It is as if we allowed the Nazi party to compete in postwar elections in Germany and then permitted the SS to handle internal security," said Kris Janowski, a spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 
Surrounded

Last week, in a sign of escalating tensions, American troops detained more than 60 uniformed Serbs who attacked Muslims trying to rebuild their homes in a Serb-controlled village.
Croatian and Muslim nationalist parties in their respective parts of Bosnia have also compromised the credibility of the vote, although in less egregious ways. For example, the President of the Muslim-led Bosnian Government, Alija Izetbegovic, has blocked TV broadcasts designed to allow independent candidates to be heard.
The Bosnian Government -- left with only 30 percent of the republic's territory after the Dayton accords halted the fighting -- remains surrounded by hostile neighbors, including ethnic Croats who are nevertheless nominally linked with the Bosnians in a federation. Without integration with their neighbors and the delivery of promised international aid, the Bosnian Muslims cannot build a viable state economically or politically, or hope to credibly restore a semblance of the republic's prewar territorial integrity.
Their only realistic options are an extension of the international presence here or a resumption of their fight to regain control of the country, which in the eyes of the international community belongs to them.
If war starts again, the next Balkan bloodbath will probably be allowed to proceed with little international interference or censure, given the exhaustion of the outside powers. More likely is a continuing but inconclusive NATO presence here, leading perhaps to a prolonged territorial stalemate like the one in Cyprus, where nearly two decades later it still takes international troops to keep the warring factions apart.
For the allies to accomplish more, to forcibly remove the Bosnian Serb leadership from power, would probably mean embroiling the NATO force in a conflict with casualties. And few NATO Governments (least of all France, which lost over 50 soldiers here during the war) would be eager to explain body bags to skeptical publics back home.
Given all this, the Americans and their allies have accomplished much, perhaps all they can.
The problem is that it is not enough.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American soldier, left, tries to stop an angry Bosnian Muslim from throwing a stone at Serb policemen detained after the Serbs assaulted Muslims returning to their homes. (Associated Press); Above, a Bosnian Serb at a polling station for absentee voters in Belgrade. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina shows the current areas of control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CITIES (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); REFUGEES (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



32 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REACTION;
Blue Ribbon Goes to Clinton At This Year's County Fair

SERIES: AN AMERICAN PLACE: The Judges

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP 

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio, Aug. 31

 BODY:
This is county fair week here, a testament to America's ability to turn most anything into a competition, whether it is the quest for Stark County's heaviest pumpkin squash (a 183.5 pounder, grown by Linda Parker), the county's best pie (an apple, baked by Betty Datkuliak), the top Limousine breed steer (raised by Joey Milano) or the best all-around burpless cucumber (produced by Viola Deremer).
Under the fair's grandstand, human beings are also being judged, as they stand shoulder to shoulder in their booths. Every local politician, from the municipal court candidates to the United States Congressman, has been smiling madly all week, handing out litter bags and pencils, calendars and nail files. Those results will not be in until November, although it appears from several dozen interviews here this week, that in the biggest competition, the Presidency, Bill Clinton continues to hold the early lead, attracting votes even in the fair's business exhibition hall and the Grange Hall, traditional Republican strongholds. 
 John Givens, owner of Givens Enterprise, a vacuum cleaner sales business with a display at the fair, voted for Republicans for President through the 1980's and for Ross Perot last time, but said the economy was "pretty good right now" so he would vote for Mr. Clinton this time.
Joanna Davidson, 31, a vice president for Gulia Music, which had pianos and organs on exhibit, cast her first vote for President in 1984 for Ronald Reagan, but will vote for the Democrat this year. "Our business depends on people having disposable income, and, right now, people have money to spend," she said.
In the Grange Hall, Nancy Levengood, a Stark County fair board director who was overseeing the best pie competition, said she voted for George Bush in 1992 but was undecided this time. "I'm just not real enthusiastic about Dole," she said. "Clinton has matured a lot since 1992. He may be all right for another term."
"Right," said her volunteer assistant, Donna Davis, who voted for Mr. Clinton in '92 and is leaning that way again. "I'm still weighing Clinton, but I'm glad he signed that welfare reform bill."
On the other hand, it is easy to see why President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore went out of their way in their speeches this week to praise Bob Dole as a human being and have made much of taking the high road and avoiding personal attacks. It is personal matters, like character, that seem to be Mr. Dole's best shot at taking votes away.
Chris Busby, 28, a manager at a Friendly's restaurant, who was walking down the midway with his wife and daughter, voted for Mr. Clinton in 1992 but will vote for Mr. Dole in November. "With Clinton," he said, "it's one thing after another, Travelgate, Whitewater. . . ."
And though it does not seem to have changed people's votes, if you wanted to make a Republican laugh this week, you needed to say just two words: "Dick Morris."
"I'm sorry, I know I shouldn't be laughing," said Judy Birman, a teacher and Republican who will vote for Mr. Dole. "Am I surprised? Should I be surprised? If they said he ran off to the monastery, then I'd be surprised."
Stark County is a place of 370,000 people that is split down the middle between Republicans and Democrats and usually votes as the nation does for President. While it is predominantly urban and suburban, farming still makes up a big enough part of the economy to fill the fair's cattle, horse, sheep, pig and bunny barns. And while Stark has big city problems, like gangs, it is a small enough place that this week, as William Hoffman, an appeals court judge, worked his booth, one of the fairgoers who stopped by was a woman he sent to jail for petty theft.
Before the 147th annual fair ends on Labor Day, 100,000 people will attend, making it a fine venue for sampling opinion. But it is an informal sampling. There has been no political poll done in the county since The New York Times did one in May, showing Mr. Clinton ahead by double digits. And the University of Cincinnati, which conducts the best known statewide poll, has not done one this month and will not start surveying again until after Labor Day.
The main thing the President seems to have going for him here is the economy, which is much stronger than four years ago, when unemployment was 8 percent. As the harness racing began at noon Thursday at the grandstand, the segue for the hourly radio news on WHBC, Canton, was, "The economy's booming! Details in a minute!"
That economy is a factor for Bob Cash, an engineer pushing his 1-year-old, Christopher, down the midway on Friday. Mr. Cash, a Republican, voted for Presidents Reagan and Bush in the 1980's, but he switched to Mr. Clinton in 1992 and will vote for him again this time. So will Kevin Cazan, a union pipe fitter for the Timken steel and bearing company and his girlfriend, Mary Ann Klein, a union electrician at Timken. Both were laid off in 1992 and are now working six days a week as their company posts record profits.
It is also not hard to find Republican voters who are undecided or hesitant. Looking over the tractor display was David Herbst, a Republican who voted for Mr. Bush in '92 and dislikes Mr. Clinton's position on gun control. Yet the Kaiser Aluminum manager is still not willing to commit until he sees how Mr. Dole handles the right-wing pressure groups this fall. On Mr. Dole's right is Ms. Birman, the teacher, who will vote for him but will not encourage her friends to or pass out material the way she did for the Republican she feels passionately about, Patrick J. Buchanan.
The Dole-Kemp team still has a lot of selling to do, even among Republicans, to convince people that their 15 percent tax-cut proposal can be achieved without adding to the deficit or necessitating deep program cuts.
Larry Lipely is a cigarette salesman and a Republican, voting for Mr. Dole "for obvious reasons," who said: "I don't see that tax cut -- I don't see it at all. I think they just did it because they needed something and were so far behind." His wife, Marlowe, does not see it either, and though she voted for President Bush in 1992, she remains undecided.
Most people interviewed had not seen much of either convention, for the same reasons that nobody gets too worked up over state-run television news in North Korea. People do not see the point of watching a Democratic leader like Representative Richard A. Gephardt stand at the podium and, with a straight face, describe Bill Clinton as a President who says, "Let's do what's right and damn the political risks."
Ted Duplain, a retired Coca-Cola salesman and Dole supporter who was eyeballing Patsy Schmuki's first-place sunflower, estimated that he might have watched the two conventions for a total of 10 minutes.
"It's just a bunch of showboating," he said. As for the President damning the political risks, Mr. Duplain said: "He's wishy-washy, and he lies. Definitely, definitely. He'll say anything to get a vote, anything!"
On the other hand, he was impressed with that sunflower. "Mine didn't come up this year," he said. "Too much rain."
The news coverage this week out of Chicago focused a good deal on how much political damage President Clinton may sustain among Democratic liberals because he signed the welfare-overhaul legislation. But in a swing vote area like Stark County, liberals tend to be pragmatic. They have to be, making up just 16 percent of the Stark electorate, versus 33 percent who call themselves conservative and 47 percent moderate, according to the poll taken last spring -- almost precisely the national split among voters.
Liberals here are used to living with compromises daily, and it does not seem likely that the President's march to the center will cost him support among that group here.
Indeed, the most popular political booth at the fair belongs to Representative Ralph Regula, a moderate Republican whose shopping bag handouts are scooped up even on the liberal end of the political spectrum.
Bonnie Bolitho, director of the local Planned Parenthood chapter, considers herself liberal. There is a lot about Mr. Regula's record that she does not like, including his vote this year to repeal the ban on assault weapons and his support for Speaker Newt Gingrich on many issues.
But she will vote for Mr. Regula again in November because he has been helpful on matters "like family planning legislation."
So when Ms. Bolitho is asked whether her support for Mr. Clinton is threatened by the welfare vote, the question seems naive to her. "Voting for Clinton is an easy choice," she said. "What's the alternative?"
 
An American Place
 
Living midway between Democratic Cleveland and Republican Columbus, the citizens of Canton, Ohio, and surrounding Stark County have a history of voting for the winning Presidential candidate. This is the 24th article in a yearlong series that explores the forces shaping the political debate at the grass roots. (Previous articles are available to computer users on The New York Times on the Web, at http://www.nytimes.com/specials/canton.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the fair in Stark County, Ohio, politicians as well as pies and squash were being judged last week. In the Grange Hall, Nancy Levengood, a fair board director who was overseeing the pie competition, said on Wednesday that President Clinton "may be all right for another term." (Tony Dejak for The New York Times) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: AURORA, OH, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); AKRON, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COUNTY FAIR FOODS LTD (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANTON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); AURORA, OH, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%); AKRON, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); EXHIBITIONS (67%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



33 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
For Convention Viewers, One Person's Pizazz Was Often Another's Pshaw

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Aug. 31

 BODY:
Tough as nails at 6-foot-5 and in a hard hat and steel-toed boots, Duane McGowan, a brewery worker, just about melted as he talked about some heart-tugging moments at the Democratic National Convention.
"I saw Superman," Mr. McGowan, 28, said softly, referring to the actor Christopher Reeve, who addressed the delegates from a wheelchair. "Man, he was something. Really made me think." 
 Inside a bookstore in the affluent, shady suburb of Webster Groves, meanwhile, 62-year-old Ann Streeter was shaking her head with disdain as she questioned the tastefulness of it all. "Having poor Jim Brady up on that stage," she said. "I mean, really."
And at a park downtown, Lisa Ross, a 25-year-old bank worker, was delighting co-workers with her imitation of President Clinton gazing across the convention floor at his wife, Hillary, and mouthing the words, "I love you," as he did from the podium in Chicago.
Some loved it. Some loathed it. Some could scarcely take it seriously.
It was the style of the Democratic convention, more than its substance, that has most Americans talking, judging from more than three dozen interviews, in New England and Texas, in South Carolina and Washington State, and in this old city on the Mississippi River.
For people who ordinarily find politics as dry as dust, the talk-show touches made the convention more palatable. For traditionalists who wish Presidents would go back to using full first names, there was fretting that the convention had almost nothing to say about politics, or perhaps everything.
Of the sex scandal involving Dick Morris, the former White House political consultant, almost nobody seemed to care. People would rather debate the role of Hispanic line-dancing in politics.
"I know some people think it's silly to be out there dancing the 'Macarena,' " said Shelley Smugala, a 30-year-old paralegal. "But I think maybe we take things too seriously."
Giving the convention a little Academy Awards pizazz, she said, can serve the aims of democracy by interesting more Americans, like her.
"I thought, hey, I like Christopher Reeve; I'll tune in," said Ms. Smugala, who plans to vote for Mr. Clinton.
But Kim Steinman, a 35-year-old beauty shop manager, was taken aback. "The whole thing was such a big show," she said, as she gave a $12 haircut to a customer. "It's like everything else with Clinton. It's not real, not sincere."
Susie Krug, a 37-year-old homemaker who was taking her two preschool children to the Daniel Boone branch of a suburban St. Louis library, said the convention was so saccharine it nearly made her gag at times.
"That time Hillary was on the phone with Bill, and she tells him, 'I love you,' " she said, "and I thought, 'Is this really for us to watch?' "
But Mrs. Krug, who lives in one of the affluent new subdivisions in the fast-growing West County region, said she had decided to vote Republican, long before the convention.
"But all this family, family, family business at the Democratic convention, it was just so packaged," she said.
To Gail A. Johnson, a high school English teacher, however, it seems natural to expect each political party to have scripted conventions.
"They're selling a candidate, and a party," she said, "and this is the presentation of the marketing strategy."
Ms. Johnson, 46, could not help but remember the stark differences in the convention, and the nation, with the Democrats' last trip to Chicago, in 1968.
"My father worked for Dow Chemical, makers of Saran Wrap and napalm," she said. "And we sat in the family room with the convention on the television, and screamed at each other -- I mean, screamed."
In suburban New Hampshire, 39-year-old Al Blicker, a recruiter of temporary workers, found the President to be an inspiration.
"The way I feel when he connects with me is uncanny," he said. "He made me feel there is hope."
And in the working-class Dutch Town neighborhood on the south side of St. Louis, a modest, but meticulously tended neighborhood, Russ Wood, a 73-year-old retired machinist, said he found the personal accounts of tragedies very moving. And he thought the speech by Vice President Al Gore, who told of losing a sister to cancer, was more powerful than a mere discussion of policy.
"These cigarette companies, you know, they're always hollering that tobacco is not a drug," said Mr. Wood, who once smoked heavily, and struggled mightily before quitting for good. "And Gore says, 'Look what it did to my sister.' "
And he was as bright as sunshine about President Clinton. "He was just kind of a yuppie when he got into office, but he's really been maturing," Mr. Wood said, with an approving nod. "He's getting a real feel for the job."
In the desperately poor neighborhoods of East St. Louis, on the Illinois side of the Mississippi, Gia Johnson, an unemployed 38-year-old woman, spoke with bitterness. "I give up on them all," said Ms. Johnson, walking past the Second Chance Mission. "That convention, it just took up space on the television."
But her companion, Leonard Sims, 48, a former construction worker who became disabled after being stabbed in the spine, said that a Democratic White House had made a difference.
"The biggest problem we've got is dope," Mr. Sims said. "This crack is killing neighborhoods. And there's not much a President, or anybody else, can do about it. As long as people want it, they're going to be shipping it up from South America."
He credited Mr. Clinton with improving the national economy, which was helping conditions in a place like East St. Louis, at least a little.
St. Louis, which has the headquarters of companies like Anheuser-Busch, McDonnell Douglas, Trans World Airlines and Monsanto, is a city tied closely to the rhythms of the national economy. And times seem good in St. Louis these days.
For Dwight Day, a 46-year-old union electrician, the economy was reason enough to give Mr. Clinton another term.
"I'm no economist, but it seems like most of my friends are doing better than they were a few years ago," said Mr. Day, who had a tool bag slung over his shoulder as he hustled to make the 8 A.M. shift at Anheuser-Busch. Some people say they have more personal respect for Bob Dole, the Republican nominee, but more confidence in Mr. Clinton as a leader of the Government.
Indeed, as Mr. Clinton comes to the end of his first term in the White House, questions about his marriage, his actions to avoid the draft, and his youthful use of marijuana seem to have largely run out of gas.
David Shellhammer, a 49-year-old funeral director in Springfield, Ill., has not decided how he will vote. But he knows it will not center on worries about personal transgressions.
"I'm a baby boomer, too," said Mr. Shellhammer, "and I inhaled."
He paused for a moment, then smiled.
"And you know what? I still inhale."

GRAPHIC: Photos: UNIMPRESSED Susie Krug, above, a Republican, did not like the Democratic convention. "All this family, family, family business," she said. "It was just so packaged." Ann Streeter questioned the tastefulness of the convention, finding the appearance of James Brady on the stage especially inappropriate. IMPRESSED Dwight Day, above, is for Bill Clinton. "I'm no economist, but it seems like most of my friends are doing better than they were a few years ago," he said. Shelley Smugala enjoyed the glitz. She applauded the Democrats for their efforts to draw viewers in. "Maybe we take things too seriously," she said. (Photographs by Bill Stover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (74%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (74%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); PUBLIC OPINION CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); BOOKSTORES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); DANCE (62%); SCANDALS (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



34 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ORGANIZATION;
Influential Group Brought Into Campaign by Kemp

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

 BODY:
Not long after Bill Clinton defeated President Bush in 1992, Theodore J. Forstmann, a New York investment banker, sat down with Jack Kemp to discuss creating an organization in Washington to chart a new course for conservative causes, particularly Mr. Kemp's advocacy of stimulating growth by cutting taxes.
"I said, 'Why don't you figure out what it costs, and I'll underwrite the thing for you?' " recalled Mr. Forstmann, whose fortune has been estimated at $250 million to $300 million. 
 The result was Empower America, a nonprofit organization founded in January 1993 by Mr. Kemp and William J. Bennett, the former Education Secretary, with the backing of Mr. Forstmann and several other affluent men. In the three years since, the organization has helped keep Mr. Kemp and his supply-side ideas in the spotlight and provided him with a base to make $1 million to $2 million a year, giving speeches at up to $35,000 apiece.
Now, with Mr. Kemp as Bob Dole's running mate on the Republican ticket, he can count on the same rich patrons who backed Empower America. And several of the organization's key benefactors and senior staff members have signed on with the Dole-Kemp campaign.
"If Dole-Kemp wins, a lot of people associated with Empower America will be in the Administration," said Tex Lezar, a Dallas lawyer and former Assistant Attorney General in the Reagan Administration who took over in May as chief executive of the organization. "You could say it's been a shadow government."
Mr. Forstmann, for instance, who is estimated to have contributed between $1 million and $3.7 million to the organization, said he talked regularly with Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp about economic matters. Mr. Dole gets economic advice from Steve Forbes, who ran against him for the Republican nomination and who is, along with Mr. Forstmann, a former chairman of Empower America. Thomas W. Weisel, founder of Montgomery Securities in San Francisco and the current Empower chairman, raised $1.2 million for Mr. Dole.
The Dole campaign's policy directors are former Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, vice chairman of Empower America, and former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, a director and business executive. Another Empower America director, Judy Shelton, provided advice on Mr. Dole's tax-cut proposal, and Mr. Bennett has been advising the campaign on education.
From the start, Empower America was intended to provide a home for Washington's conservative elite and to be a political advocacy organization that would steer a course between the policies of the Bush Administration and the right wing, represented by Patrick J. Buchanan.
Unlike traditional policy-oriented research organizations, like the Heritage Foundation or the Brookings Institution, Empower America has exercised its influence in the political arena. Although it is a nonprofit organization, donations are not tax-deductible because of its political activities.
Mr. Bennett has tackled the social issues, promoting vouchers for school choice and criticizing music lyrics and the content of movies under the rubric of "cultural rot." Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, also a director and a former United States Delegate to the United Nations, has expounded on the need for a tough foreign policy and a strong military.
But it was Mr. Kemp and his economic proposals that brought in the deep-pocket businessmen with contributions to pay the rent and salaries. They liked his pro-business attitudes, even his suggestion that monetary reform include a return to the gold standard. Most of all, they liked his unstinting focus on cutting taxes.
Although Mr. Kemp achieved national prominence in 1981 as the co-sponsor of legislation that cut taxes 25 percent, he rarely attracted big-dollar support for his campaigns.
Then Mr. Clinton won the Presidency, and big-money conservatives turned to Mr. Kemp.
"Clinton had just come into power and, in my opinion, made success a dirty word," said Mr. Weisel, the San Francisco investment banker. "Jack has always stayed with his message of pro-growth economics and entrepreneurial capitalism. When Ted Forstmann asked me to help, I decided Empower America was a cause I wanted to back."
The beginning was prosperous. Contributions were $8.6 million the first year, most of it from big contributors, according to tax records. The group spent $4.6 million starting up a direct-mail fund-raising campaign. Mr. Weber, as vice chairman, was paid $150,000, and Mr. Bennett earned $137,500. Mr. Kemp did not accept a salary because he drew pay from the Heritage Foundation and made money on the lecture circuit.
Although the budget was down to $5 million last year, most of the money still comes from a small group of businessmen who serve as board members or advisers at Empower America, Mr. Weisel and others said.
The beginning was also rough. Articles in the press portrayed Mr. Kemp and Mr. Bennett as being at odds over policies on poverty and welfare. Both men were considered contenders for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1996, and tales spread about them wrestling for control of the organization. Mr. Forstmann and Mr. Weisel both said the two men worked well together.
In its earliest days, Empower America wanted to spread its gospel outside Washington, and Orson Swindle, an aide to Ross Perot's 1992 Presidential bid, was hired to start a grass-roots drive. The effort fizzled, and Mr. Swindle left to run for Congress in Honolulu.
"It was a point of contention -- what was Empower America to be?" said Mr. Swindle, a former Reagan Administration official and prisoner of war in Vietnam. "We decided it was not going to be grass-roots."
The voters' swing to the right in the 1994 elections helped carve a niche for Empower America, as Mr. Kemp continued to argue for tax cuts.
William Kristol, publisher of The Weekly Standard, said Mr. Kemp and Mr. Bennett had played an important part in keeping alive the notion that there was more to Republicanism than balancing the budget and restraining welfare costs.
"I don't know that the organization itself played a role, but they did," said Mr. Kristol, a former chief of staff to Vice President Dan Quayle. "It was a place for big shots to be big shots, and that is totally legitimate."
Mr. Kemp decided last year not to run for President. But Mr. Forbes, then Empower America's chairman, made a high-profile bid that focused attention on overhauling taxes. In doing so, Mr. Forbes promoted the political prospects of Mr. Kemp. By the time Bob Dole made a $548 billion tax cut a centerpiece of his campaign this summer, Mr. Kemp was a natural choice for the second spot.
While Empower America kept his political fortunes alive, Mr. Kemp helped his own financial fortunes.
At the end of 1992, after 18 years in Congress and 4 as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in the Bush Administration, Mr. Kemp listed assets worth between $802,000 and $1.6 million. He and his wife still lived in a house in Bethesda, Md., that they bought in 1975 for $155,000.
Public records and interviews with associates show that Mr. Kemp has earned millions on the lecture circuit and in corporate fees in the last three years. Most of his speeches have been to corporate groups, particularly in real estate, banking and insurance. He was also paid $136,000 a year as a fellow at the Heritage Foundation and about $100,000 a year as a director of six corporations.
The Dole-Kemp campaign says Mr. Kemp will disclose his new net worth and earnings within the 30-day period required by election laws. He has also stopped speaking for pay and will resign from the corporate boards on which he serves.
Executives said they had sought out Mr. Kemp for their boards because of his political acumen and prominence. Worldcorp, the parent of World Airways, put Mr. Kemp on the board and used him last June to help promote its new service to Israel, where he is regarded as a strong supporter. American Bankers Insurance Group saw Mr. Kemp as someone who could help the company with regulators and lawmakers in Washington. The company paid him $20,000 a year in fees and granted him options on 20,000 shares of stock.
"He provided names to us and introductions," said Leonardo F. Garcia, senior vice president of American Bankers, a Miami-based insurance company.
When the company feared that provisions of a banking bill might benefit competitors, Mr. Garcia said, Mr. Kemp volunteered to call Senator Connie Mack, a Florida Republican who is on the Banking Committee.
"The substance of the call was that he told Connie he was on the board and somebody from the company would be calling and to hear us out," Mr. Garcia said. "We could have called the Senator ourselves, but he volunteered to help out."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the help of wealthy backers, Jack Kemp, left, and William J. Bennett founded Empower America in 1993 to press for supply-side policies that have now been adopted by Bob Dole. Lamar Alexander, right, and Gov. George E. Pataki of New York attended a dinner the group held in 1994. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPOWER AMERICA (ORGN) EMPOWER AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPOWER AMERICA (ORGN) EMPOWER AMERICA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; KEMP, JACK F; DOLE, BOB; LEZAR, TED THEODORE FORSTMANN (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



35 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Baghdad's Move Puts the Future of Kurdish Safe Haven in Doubt

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES 

 BODY:
The assault by Iraqi troops and Kurdistan Democratic Party guerrillas yesterday to oust a rival Kurdish faction from the city of Erbil in northern Iraq could spell the end of the independent Kurdish enclave.
In the attack, Iraqi troops entered the region for the first time since the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991. And the decision by the Kurdistan Democratic Party to ally itself with Baghdad will make it hard for the United States to do much on its behalf. 
 The 3.5 million Kurds in northern Iraq came to the attention of the outside world after the gulf war. They saw in the defeat of President Saddam Hussein's troops the opportunity to carve out an independent Kurdish state, just as they did briefly after the two world wars.
Armed with little more than assault rifles and machine guns, the Kurds rose up against Iraqi troops and for a few days controlled much of the north. But the rebellion was crushed by Iraqi armor in fighting that killed some 50,000 Kurds and forced more than a million to flee to Turkey and Iran.
The spectacle of families freezing in the snowy mountain passes prompted the United States and its allies to come to the aid of the Kurds in April 1991 and establish a safe haven above Iraq's 36th parallel. This safe haven still exists and is patrolled by American, British and French warplanes based in Turkey.
The protection, which included the deployment of American troops for several weeks, gave the Kurds the reassurance to go back to their homes. The Iraqi troops withdrew, international aid poured into the north and the Kurds embarked on a heady experiment that they hoped would lead to autonomy, if not a separate state.
But the Western-protected safe haven worried the Turks, the Syrians and the Iranians, who feared that if it evolved into an independent enclave the Kurds in their own countries would become more restive. Turkey has been battling a fierce Kurdish insurgency in its southeast since 1983, and Turkish troops have made several border raids into northern Iraq to hunt for guerrilla base camps used by Turkish Kurds.
The two main Kurdish factions in Iraq agreed to share power, and held elections in 1992 that saw each faction get 50 percent of the vote. They set up a government with a parliament. Hailed at the time by Washington as a step toward democracy, they never challenged the real power of the two rival organizations, the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan.
As international attention waned, and with it international aid, the two sides fought over dwindling resources. It was possible to get hard currency in the Kurdish region only through the black market. And the bitter feud that developed had its origins in the fight to control the two main black market activities: the sale of duty-free cigarettes and the transport of Iraqi gasoline for sale in Turkey.
The town of Zakho, on the border with Turkey, saw scores of huge tractor-trailer trucks, belching black diesel smoke, line up each day to pass Kurdish checkpoints. Some of these trucks were headed to Mosul to fill up with Iraqi gasoline. Others carried duty-free cigarettes from Cyprus.
The cigarettes were smuggled from the Kurdish enclave into Iran, Turkey and southern Iraq, often by boat or mule. The gasoline was trucked back into Turkey for sale.
The Democratic Party controlled the border crossing at Zahko and collected tens of thousands of dollars a day in "taxes" it did not share with the Patriotic Union.
Sporadic clashes over the control of the funds soon erupted into open warfare. The Patriotic Union was driven at gunpoint from Zakho. The Kurdish parliament in Erbil ceased to function, and members of one faction were unable to travel into the territory held by the other. Hundreds of Kurds died in this feud, squandering what good will they had left in the international community.
The battles, which have waged on and off for over four years, left northern Iraq a wasteland where families scratched out a living planting crops and collecting handouts from the United Nations.
The fighting saw the Patriotic Union, the weaker of the two, turn to Iran for support. This prompted the Democratic Party, despite a brutal campaign over the last decade by Baghdad to crush the Kurdish movement that included the razing of 4,000 villages and poison gas attacks, ally itself with Baghdad, its oldest and bitterest enemy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); TURKEY (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); PATRIOTIC UNION OF KURDISTAN (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); PATRIOTIC UNION OF KURDISTAN (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; ERBIL (IRAQ); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); TURKEY (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FIREARMS (68%); MOUNTAINS (66%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (62%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



36 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REFORM PARTY;
For Debate Commission, A Predicament on Perot

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31

 BODY:
With the three main candidates officially nominated, the Commission on Presidential Debates is struggling to decide whether Ross Perot should be included this fall, as in 1992, even though his poll standing has been slumping.
"It wasn't a slam-dunk decision last time, and it will be tougher this time," said Paul Kirk, a former Democratic Party chairman serving as co-chairman of the commission. 
 Another director of the commission, Newton N. Minow, a Democrat who is a lawyer from Chicago, said during the Democratic convention there last week that there had been discussions about setting the cutoff mark at 5 percent in the polls, or 10 percent or 15 percent. In the latest New York Times/CBS News trial heat, which was conducted Aug. 10-18, Mr. Perot stood at 8 percent.
In the end, polls will be only one factor among many to be weighed.
The decision is scheduled to be made on Sept. 18, and it will almost certainly have an impact on the size of Mr. Perot's vote. If he is included, it would doubtless improve his showing at the polls; that, in turn, could help President Clinton, if politicians are correct in their assumption that more of Mr. Perot's votes would come from Bob Dole, the Republican nominee.
Michael D. McCurry, Mr. Clinton's press secretary, repeatedly refused at a breakfast meeting with reporters last week to be pinned down about whether the President wanted Mr. Perot included.
The other commission co-chairman, Frank Fahrenkopf, who is a former Republican Party chairman, said he was convinced that all the candidates admitted to the debates would take part in them this year.
"We have reached the point where it is impossible, in practical terms, for anyone to say no," he said. "Debates have become institutionalized. Even for the candidates to delay or play games these days costs them."
George Bush haggled over the rules in 1992, delaying the start of the series until late in the campaign, and relenting only when he was confronted at campaign events by demonstrators dressed in chicken costumes. Nevertheless, at a time when voter turnout and television audiences were declining, the final debate at Michigan State University drew more viewers than any political event in American history: 97 million on the broadcast networks.
The commission's plans call for four debates this year, on consecutive Wednesdays starting Sept. 25. Three would involve the Presidential candidates and one the Vice-Presidential nominees. Two would feature a single moderator sitting with the candidates at a table, one would have a moderator and the candidates at lecterns, and a fourth would be a town-hall-type meeting.
To date, the candidates have not approved the schedule or formats.
Most viewers thought that the debates helped Mr. Perot four years ago, but his participation clearly made it more difficult for the major-party candidates to face off man-to-man. The national coordinator of Mr. Perot's Reform Party, Russell Verney, said last week that Mr. Perot expected to be asked again.
The commission's rules lay down 11 criteria for deciding whether to include minor-party candidates. The object, the rules say, "is to identify minor party candidates, if any, who have a realistic (i.e., more than theoretical) chance of being elected President of the United States."
One group of criteria requires that a minor-party candidate satisfy Constitutional eligibility requirements, be listed on the ballot in enough states to stand a mathematical chance of gaining a majority in the Electoral College (a requirement that would exclude Ralph Nader, nominee of the Green Party), organize in a majority of Congressional districts in those states and be eligible for Federal matching funds or have sufficient private means.
A second group of five criteria requires the commission to evaluate the opinions of leading journalists, professional campaign managers, political scientists and commentators, as well as newspaper and television exposure.
Finally, the commission is to take into account attendance at rallies and opinion-poll standings.
Several commission directors said they were eager to make a decision that would last for the whole campaign. In 1980, before the commission was created, John Anderson, an independent candidate, was included in the first debate, but the President at the time, Jimmy Carter, refused to take part, so Mr. Anderson debated with Ronald Reagan. Later, when Mr. Anderson's poll numbers slipped, he was dropped, and Mr. Carter debated with Mr. Reagan.
"I say, in for all or out for all," Mr. Minow said.
A five-member committee, headed by Professor Richard Neustadt of Harvard University, makes a recommendation to the commission, which can accept it or reject it. The other members are Dr. Diana Carlin, a professor of communication studies at the University of Kansas; Dorothy Ridings, a former president of the League of Women Voters; Kenneth Thompson, director of the Miller Center at the University of Virginia, and Eddie Williams, president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Will he or won't he? The Commission on Presidential Debates has yet to decide whether it will invite Ross Perot, the Reform Party candidate. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMISSION ON PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES CBS NEWS DIVISION (56%); REFORM PARTY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION ON PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES REFORM PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DEBATING; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (65%); HISTORY (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



37 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON AND DOLE SHARPEN MESSAGES IN RACE'S FINAL LEG

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 31

 BODY:
The Presidential candidates embarked this weekend on a final 66-day frenzy of charges and countercharges, sound bites and debates, in which President Clinton is offering himself as a youthful leader for the next century and Bob Dole is seeking to ride to the White House on the promise of a 15 percent tax cut.
Those distinct messages, polished by speech writers and tested by focus groups, will be put forth to Americans with a new intensity in the run-up to Nov. 5, as the candidates unleash millions of dollars' worth of television commercials -- and set out on the most hectic, and politically perilous, stretch of the campaign. 
 Despite all the activity, many Democratic and Republican analysts agree that beyond giving the major party nominees a lift in the polls, at least momentarily, the conventions do not appear to have made fundamental changes in the dynamics of the campaign.
After his party's convention, which ended here on Thursday, Mr. Clinton's challenge, still, is to hang on to his months-long dominance in the polls, while Mr. Dole hopes to engineer a dramatic turnabout by Election Day.
"This is a race that hasn't moved since the second week of March," Douglas Sosnik, the White House political director, said in an interview, referring to when Mr. Dole was seen to have clinched his party's nomination.
But Scott Reed, Mr. Dole's campaign manager, insisted that Mr. Dole's newly tuned message had begun to sink in. "We have defined the message of this campaign. It will be about Dole's economic plan and the economic anxieties of the American voters," he said.
Mr. Clinton, who had avoided overt politicking until his train trip leading to the Democratic convention, was on the campaign trail today, as he will be on roughly 20 of the next 30 days, his aides said. While Mr. Dole has kept an active pace on the trail, his events today were limited to a radio address in which he criticized the President's drug policies. [Articles, page 30.]
Mr. Dole's profile will rise because his cash-poor campaign was replenished with millions of dollars in Federal money after the Republican convention. His media consultants are busy producing television commercials that will contrast Mr. Dole's economic remedies with the President's. Those advertisements will start running next week.
Ross Perot, the nominee of the Reform Party, which he established, will become a bigger presence in the race beginning on Sunday night, when ABC broadcasts his first 30-minute commercial of the 1996 season. But it is unclear whether Mr. Perot will have a significant impact on this year's race, as he did four years ago. He has still not announced a running mate, and it is not certain whether he will be included in the Presidential debates.
In selling himself to the voters, Mr. Clinton, 50, has found that he does not have to mention his opponent's name as he draws a not-so-subtle contrast between himself and Mr. Dole, 73. Instead, his aides said, Mr. Clinton plans to tell voters repeatedly, as he did in his acceptance speech, that he would "build a bridge to the 21st century."
That line was designed as a retort to Mr. Dole, who declared in his acceptance speech that "age has its advantages" and added: "Let me be the bridge to a time of tranquillity, faith and confidence in action."
Mr. Clinton's advisers also said he would continue to seek to inoculate himself against what may be his most worrisome weakness -- questions about his character -- by calling for a campaign on the issues and not marked by personal attacks.
But the Democrats got a scare on Thursday when Dick Morris, the President's chief political adviser and the architect of his move to the political center, resigned after a tabloid accused him of a relationship with a call girl. While even many Republicans said they did not expect the episode to lead to lingering damage, if any, to Mr. Clinton's poll rankings, some of Mr. Clinton's own advisers said they feared that it would reignite questions about his character.
Mr. Dole has settled on a sharpened campaign theme as well, which is to focus relentlessly on his plan for an across-the-board tax cut as a way to spur growth and wages, a stark appeal to middle-class and independent voters who are edgy about their economic futures.
"We have recovered and put our base back in place," Mr. Reed said. "We have a viable candidacy right now. Our goal is to get this to single digits by the middle of October."
Yet Mr. Reed, apparently acknowledging surveys showing that many voters are still leery of Mr. Dole's tax-cut plan, brushed off the question when asked whether the campaign's polling showed that the proposal was catching on. "I know it will work," he said in an interview, "and Dole knows it will work because he feels it when he's out on the stump."
In what are secondary messages intended to solidify the support of loyal Republican voters and appeal to women and independents, Mr. Dole has also begun to present himself as much tougher on crime and drugs than Mr. Clinton and to offer a plan that would give Americans more flexibility in where their children go to school.
But the difficulty for Mr. Dole is that women, moderates and independents in the suburbs have drifted into the Clinton camp, attracted by his new-found centrist positions. Mr. Dole hopes to attract some of those voters with the help of his running mate, Jack Kemp, the former Housing Secretary, who is popular among some Democrats. He is also counting on Catholic voters who are angry at Mr. Clinton for his veto of a bill that would have banned certain late-term abortions.
"It's not clear that Dole has really pulled together his base," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. "He has to get some of those Republican defectors back and make sure he keeps them. And he needs more than 90 percent of the Republicans -- he needs a good number of independents who now think he's out of touch with them, women in particular."
Even as the major party nominees have refined their central messages, Mr. Perot has yet to make clear one fundamental reason he should be elected. Mr. Dole's advisers are particularly worried that Mr. Perot will attack Mr. Dole, the former Senate majority leader, for advancing his tax-cut remedy at the expense of his decades-long commitment to erasing the Federal deficit.
"I don't think he's a silver bullet that we're going to win on," Mr. Sosnik, the White House political director, said of Mr. Perot. "But I think, on balance, he helps us more."
Mr. Reed, seeking to make the best of the Texas billionaire's entry into the race, said "the jury's still out" on how he would affect the outcome. But he said, "The election will boil down to Perot and Clinton defending the present tax system and Dole for a tax cut with a balanced budget."
Pointing to a map of the nation, Mr. Sosnik trumpeted polls showing that Mr. Clinton had remained ahead -- or competitive -- in states like New Hampshire and Florida, which his party had written off in the past.
But Mr. Reed said that the best demonstration of Mr. Dole's confidence was that the Republican nominee plans to travel next week to several battleground states -- including Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio and perhaps New Jersey -- rather than seeking to shore up his position in the customary Republican strongholds where he is lagging in the polls. The Dole campaign is looking to its economic proposal to solidify not only the party's core constituencies but also to win over women and independents who are uncertain about their futures.
Democrats asserted that rather than showing confidence, the Dole campaign's decision to concentrate on certain states is a gamble that illustrates the Republican's uphill task of needing to gain ground in several regions of the country.
For now, at least, Mr. Clinton has the luxury of campaigning in Republican states like Florida in a move to tweak the Dole campaign -- and prove that he can appeal to some Republican and independent voters.
"If he continues to make Dole play in places like Florida, that's very, very harmful because that's the natural base," said Paul Wilson, a Republican strategist. "It's a state that ought to be in our column right away -- we should be winning that by 15 percentage points."
The usual lull between the conventions and the traditional Labor Day kickoff of the fall campaign vanished this year because the gatherings were held so late. Not since 1968 have the Democrats staged a convention that ended so close to Labor Day. The Republican convention, in San Diego, was only two weeks earlier.
Democratic Party and White House officials are particularly confident about the election and will say so on the condition of anonymity. One adviser who is close to Mr. Clinton put it this way: "It has been my view that this election was probably decided by the end of July. And there are a lot of scholars who firmly believe that most general elections have been decided by Labor Day."
Gallup Poll results since 1964 have shown that while many candidates who were far behind in the summer managed to narrow the gap by Election Day, in all but one case -- the election of George Bush against Michael S. Dukakis -- they still did not win the election.
"The bottom line at this point is: it's Clinton's to lose," Mr. Kohut said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some residents of West Viola, Ky., waved yesterday as President Clinton's bus tour rolled down Highway 45. For his part, Bob Dole, the Republican challenger, limited his campaign activity to delivering a radio address. (Associated Press) (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (76%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



38 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2184 words

HEADLINE: BEYOND DEPENDENCY -- A special report.;
Welfare-to-Work Plans Show Success Is Difficult to Achieve

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
Deborah C. Washam shook her head with an emotion that appeared to be equal parts sorrow and exasperation.
Of the more than 80 women she has hired over the last 17 months as part of a generous welfare-to-work program sponsored in part by this city's corporate community, fewer than 25 remain on the job. Many of the others quit in a huff over perceived slights to their dignity. Mrs. Washam calls it their refusal to follow directions. 
 "I don't think they've had much exposure to structure in their lives," said Mrs. Washam, president and chief executive of Community Home Health Care, a licensed agency that dispatches homemakers to assist elderly and disabled residents of Kansas City's urban core with light housework and shopping.
"As single mothers, they are on their own and think of themselves as authority figures," Mrs. Washam said. "They won't take routine supervision at work."
President Clinton, in accepting the Democratic nomination on Thursday, declared "a moral obligation" under the Welfare Reform Act he signed two weeks ago to move Americans off welfare and into jobs. But the magnitude of this task seems best appreciated by those already dealing with the challenge.
Overcoming years of dependency on open-ended entitlement programs is daunting, those who administer welfare-to-work efforts say.
Employers express satisfaction with new employees who show initiative and a willingness to learn, even when that has required training in rudiments like the proper way to answer phones. But as the program here shows, business people are frustrated by many welfare veterans. Many among those hired, while the most qualified of those screened, have problems that include absenteeism, lack of discipline about work hours, poor reading and communications skills, and open resentment when given direction. And the current programs have not even reached people on welfare who have more serious problems, like alcohol and drug abuse or low intelligence.
These concerns resonate nationally with business leaders, who are only beginning to figure out employers' roles as the states begin a trek this fall into uncharted territory under mandates that those on welfare must find work or face the loss of benefits for themselves and their children.
"In the view of the small-business person, welfare is right up there with balancing the budget as what's wrong with big government," said Jeffrey R. Joseph, vice president for domestic policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce. "Yet the average business person -- or the average politician, for that matter -- has no clue as to what's coming now that the welfare bill has been passed. They want welfare people to go out and work, but there's a big difference between visceral reactions and actually dealing with programs that can help lead them to work."
Mr. Joseph said a "hodgepodge" of plans had been advanced to ease the welfare-to-work transition, adding that the national picture is more confused than coherent. "Those with low unemployment are serious about finding reasonable ways of accomplishing the goals of reform -- they need every worker they can get," he explained. "Areas with high unemployment and low sophistication, where they can't figure out what to do with people who already have skills, may be less interested."
 
What Is Role Of Business?
President Clinton challenged "every business person in America who has ever complained about the failure of the welfare system to try to hire somebody off welfare, and try hard." Yet some leaders of business groups are blunt in disavowing any suggestion that the private sector should assume responsibility for making welfare reform work.
"Business is not in the business of providing jobs for welfare recipients," Robert T. Jones, president and chief executive officer of the National Alliance of Business, said in a telephone interview before the President's speech, contending that it is up to the states to prepare people for entering the work force.
Still, some communities -- notably places where unemployment is low and unskilled workers are in demand -- have already undertaken efforts to move welfare recipients into the work force.
In Tulsa, Okla., for example, the Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce created a nonprofit corporation in 1992 to train adults on welfare for assembly and manufacturing jobs at companies that pick up the training costs. Tim Westberry, the program manager, said that in the first eight months of 1996, 60 full-time and 13 temporary jobs were filled by the heads of families on Aid to Families with Dependent Children who underwent training with them. The overall retention rate, he said, is above 80 percent over the history of the program.
In Indianapolis, existing community-based groups accustomed to assisting the urban poor with housing and other social needs have redirected their energies, with the aid of business leaders, to find work for those on welfare. "Functional illiteracy and alcoholism are the biggest barriers to employment for our clients," said the Rev. John Hay, a minister who runs a community center on the city's east side, where whites account for 80 percent of the A.F.D.C. caseload.
Here in Kansas City, an alliance called the Local Investment Commission, or LINC, financed by public and private sources, is quietly shaping a model of inner-city dynamics for the post-welfare world.
Backed by corporate leadership groups and the purses of the Kansas City Foundation and the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, the alliance is striving, with blessings from the state, to change the focus of the existing social-service apparatus from assisting people in getting welfare benefits to finding them jobs, among other far-reaching plans.
As part of LINC, an agency called the Full Employment Council is using Federal welfare and food stamp funds to subsidize new jobs for welfare recipients.
When a participant is hired, $500 a month in wage supplements goes to the employer, explained Clyde McQueen, the council's president and chief executive. That works out to about half the $6 an hour at which most of those hired start.
Families also continue to receive full Medicaid benefits and day-care coverage for four years -- services that would cost ordinary workers another $600 or more a month in after-tax income, he said.
Though under the Welfare Reform Act beneficiaries will have no choice about going to work, the Kansas City program's extended benefits are intended to attract people who believe they would gain more by staying home than by going to work. Critics of the new law say it will cost states billions each year to extend such benefits to everyone who will have to move off welfare. Yet the legislation calls for spending $55 billion less over six years, rather than more.
Mr. McQueen said the Kansas City program is also meant to give people new to the work force some practical experience and self-confidence before they are made to support themselves fully.
 
Dropout Rate Remains High
And that has happened in a lot of cases. Randy Teghtmeyer, general manager of Midwest Typewriter and Computer, said he had found "a gem" when he hired Rene Moore, a 20-year-old single mother, through the Full Employment Council's 21st Century program. And Ms. Moore expressed delight at obtaining a job she confessed she never would have found on her own.
"When I came in for the interview, I saw only one or two black faces in the office, and I thought I might have problems with racism here -- not just because I'm black, but because I'm young and on welfare," she said, going about her clerical duties clad in a tailored green suit.
Instead, she said: "People have been very nice and helpful to me. It's like they have a real interest in seeing me succeed."
But over all, Mr. McQueen said, Kansas City's welfare-to-work experiment has turned out to be more trying than was anticipated. Since the program began in April 1995, 545 of the 1,162 job openings certified for participation have been filled by welfare recipients, but only 217 of those hired remain at work. Most of the rest have returned to the welfare rolls -- a high failure rate, even though those selected for the program were among the highest qualified from the 7,726 eligible families.
"We had mistakenly assumed that the $500 monthly subsidy was sufficient motivation for the businessmen to hire our participants," Mr. McQueen said. "But increasingly we got feedback from employers who said, 'Send us people who get to work on time, can read and follow instructions and want to stay on the job.' "
Mr. Teghtmeyer, for instance, talked to 11 other welfare beneficiaries before he hired Ms. Moore -- none of whom, he said, exhibited even minimal aptitude for what is essentially an entry-level office job.
"I'd love to hire another Rene, but I don't have the time to go through that number of interviews again," he said.
 
The Question Of Attitude
 The council provides three days of job readiness training for participants and assigns a case manager to work as a liaison with the employer to mediate potential problems. Still, some employers think the preparation is inadequate.
"A lot of the problem we encounter is that the participant gets advice on how to deal with problems in the workplace from friends who have never held a job," said Gerry Buchman, a 33-year-old case manager.
"If someone tells them what to do, they think they are being disrespected," Mr. Buchman said.
Phyllis Ray-Taylor, a former A.F.D.C. recipient who helps run the training program, said most of the participants initially came to the program angry that they were being forced to work.
"Perhaps 20 percent are ready for the job market and just need a little push," Ms. Ray-Taylor said. "Many of the others have been so brainwashed by the welfare system for so long you have to de-program them and get them into another mode."
Then there are people like Alex Haley. The 41-year-old father of two young sons said he had been a productive worker for years in a variety of jobs before diabetes and hypertension forced him on the welfare rolls two years ago.
This spring, he was told to report to the Full Employment Council to be screened for work. Mr. Haley said he was hired by a microfilm company and was paid $6 an hour "to remove staples from paper all day." He was the only man in a room filled with women, he recalled, and when he started to take days off to look for a better job, he was dismissed.
Mrs. Washam at Community Home Health Care said welfare recipients with similar attitudes were in for a rude awakening once limits were placed on the duration of benefits.
"Ladies with initiative and drive will get out of the welfare system," she said. "But a lot will have to fall before they realize there's not going to be a safety net below them anymore."
Sharita Hargrove, a 28-year-old office worker at Mrs. Washam's company, understands why so many of her former co-workers quit. "They felt they were disrespected by supervisors who talked down to them like children," said the mother of three.
Ms. Hargrove is far from content herself. "I don't see where work is benefiting me at all," she scowled during an interview. "My two-week take-home pay is $523, and since I've been working my rent went from $25 a month to $277. And I used to have $364 a month in food stamps."
The Kansas City program's financial arrangements, she said, failed to take into account the realities of life on welfare. "I've been employed forever even if it was under the table," she said. "The money I got from welfare was a joke; it isn't like you could live on it."
What have the administrators of such programs learned about how to make them more successful? First, that more training before the job begins can help, on subjects like dressing appropriately, working with other people, following directions and expressing grievances.
Also, Mr. McQueen and his staff say, the program administrators must address unanticipated problems outside the workplace, such as getting a new battery for an old car so daily trips to a job do not become adventures, finding an optometrist for those who cannot fill out application forms because of poor eyesight or intervening when distractions at home keep people away from work.
"We spent so much time getting people in the front door we didn't think enough about what was needed to keep them there," Mr. McQueen said.
Still, there are enough success stories to give those in the Kansas City alliance confidence the program will be financed by the State of Missouri as block-grant money becomes available.
"This is an enormous challenge to business," said Landon H. Rowland, chairman of LINC and president and chief executive officer of Kansas City Southern Industries, which owns rail and mutual-fund companies. "Great Society programs compartmentalized social services and kept the business community outside. Now we're seeing firsthand that the issues go far beyond jobs. We've learned that the social context has to be provided so people can remain in jobs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sharita Hargrove, who got off welfare to work in an office, said many co-workers had quit because supervisors talked to them like children. (Photographs by Lauren Chapin for The New York Times) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOME HEALTH OUTREACH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY (MO); UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; STATES (US) CHILDREN (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



39 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Reaching Past Party's Base, Kemp Gives Speech at Factory

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Aug. 31

 BODY:
Continuing his outreach to voters who have traditionally supported the Democratic Party, Jack Kemp today visited a partially unionized manufacturing plant here to say that the economic plans of his running mate, Bob Dole, are compatible with the concerns of the labor movement and hourly workers.
Mr. Kemp said that the tax cuts and reforms that Mr. Dole, the Republican Presidential nominee, is proposing would so strengthen the economy, and so increase the size of the American pie, that there will be no need for squabbling over the allocation of pieces. 
 "It is not labor versus capital," Mr. Kemp said. "It's isn't black versus white, suburban versus city, west versus east, or north versus south. We're one nation, one country. We have a common interest."
Mr. Kemp spoke in a small, garage-like corner of the Industrial Mechanical plant, the acoustics of which made the applause of the roughly 150 people in the audience echo like thunder. He sat in the center of the room and in the middle of the crowd as a microphone was passed to people who wanted to ask him questions.
This Oprah-style arrangement has become a staple of the Dole-Kemp campaign.
Despite the Dole-Kemp ticket's opposition to some of the positions of organized labor, Mr. Kemp presented himself as a friend of the movement, mentioning that in his football days, he helped found the first players union in the sport. He also served as the president of that union for five years, from 1965 to 1970.
But a few people in the audience were skeptical. "I'm still holding my opinion in reserve," said Ron Scott, 37, a project manager at Industrial Mechanical. "I kind of like Kemp, but I'd like some more information about his specific policies concerning labor."
Mr. Scott said that most of the unionized workers at the plant support President Clinton and that few of them had bothered to attend today's speech.
Mr. Kemp hit hard on themes of economic growth and the way that he and Mr. Dole believe it is being impeded by President Clinton.
Referring to Mr. Clinton's speech on Thursday night at the Democratic National Convention, Mr. Kemp said, "President Clinton has announced 2,700 new programs to micromanage our economy, to socially engineer our society."
"The enemy of the American people," he added "are the stupid ideas in Washington that are holding back this economy from reaching its highest potential."
Skimming quickly through a host of economic points and issues, Mr. Kemp said that a rapid expansion of the economy could be achieved without inflation, that he fully supported the North American Free Trade Agreement, and that the pact should be expanded to include all of South America.
He told his audience that the enemy of labor in this country is not free trade, but rather the mountain of taxes and the thicket of regulations that send businesses overseas.
After the speech and a question-and-answer session with people in the audience, Mr. Kemp flew to Reno for a small fund-raising dinner near Lake Tahoe tonight with prominent Republicans.
Mr. Kemp's trip to Phoenix completed a five-day quasi-vacation in Laguna Beach, Calif., during which he made limited public appearances, and the beginning of an intense seven-day campaign swing that would take him to at least 12 states.
As Mr. Kemp and his wife, Joanne, departed the ocean-front home of his brother, Tom Kemp, early this morning, a throng of roughly 40 neighbors shouted, "Good luck!"
Ever obliging, Mr. Kemp milled among them for five minutes, even posing for a photograph with a pair of poodles dressed in red, white and blue bonnets and scarves.
At the airport in El Toro, Calif., he again took time out to be photographed with anyone who wanted his picture. His flight left 40 minutes behind schedule.
Television crews in the back of the campaign plane, which had been repainted during its dormancy to say "Dole/Kemp 1996" instead of "Dole for President," wrote the words "You're late" on the rind of an orange and rolled it up the aisle to Mr. Kemp.
Mr. Kemp rolled it back with his own message: "I'm on Clinton time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp, the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee, campaigned at a manufacturing plant in Phoenix yesterday and later signed autographs. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX (ARIZ); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; LABOR; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS LABOR UNIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; KEMP, JACK F; DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



40 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 36; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3281 words

HEADLINE: SCHOLARSHIPS FOR THE RICH

BYLINE: By Andrew Delbanco; Andrew Delbanco is the Levi Professor in the Humanities at Columbia University. His most recent book, "The Death of Satan: How Americans Have Lost the Sense of Evil," will be published in paperback this fall.

 BODY:
THEY CALL IT "SENDING THE LIMO." IT'S THE phrase Ivy League admissions officers use when a school outside the league tries to lure away a top student with a lavish deal. There is still talk at Columbia, for instance, about Kevin Seal, who was accepted into the class of 1997 from Indian Hills High School near Cincinnati (terrific board scores; editor of the school newspaper; proficient on saxophone, bassoon, oboe and piano). Kevin's father, who owns a small software firm, balked when Columbia offered his son no financial aid. So Kevin is now a senior at Indiana University, where he enjoys an all-expense paid deal.
Then there's the more recent case of Nikia Scott, an outstanding student, actress and track star from Stone Mountain High School in Atlanta. Nikia got in everywhere she applied last year, including Columbia and Yale -- each of which offered her about $18,000 toward the total annual cost of $30,000. Nikia's father makes a modest salary as a teacher in a high-school R.O.T.C. program and her mother has been concerned about losing her accounting job at the local Air Force base. Worried that Ivy League bills would drive their daughter into debt, they persuaded her to go to Howard University, which is paying full costs. 
 Not every such story ends with an Ivy League loss. This year, Cristina Teuscher, a graduate of New Rochelle, N.Y., High School who won a gold medal on the United States Olympic swimming team, is coming to Columbia. Stanford and U.S.C. went after her with full athletic scholarships, but at the last minute she turned them down -- even though, since her father is a doctor, she's getting practically nothing from Columbia and her family will be spending some $120,000 to send her there.
What explains the disparity between how much these students are wanted (a lot) and how much scholarship money they are offered (often very little) is an Ivy League policy called "need blind" admissions and "need based" financial aid. "Need blind" means that no qualified student is turned away because of inability to pay. "Need based" means that no family is asked to pay more than it can reasonably afford or gets more than it reasonably requires. The hard part, of course, is deciding what's "reasonable." To do so, all Ivy League schools send out a questionnaire that has become a feared document in the lives of many Americans -- a form asking about salary and pensions, the appraised value of the family home, mortgage balance, investments, insurance and so on. But a worse fate may be in store: in part because of the ferocious competition for students like Kevin Seal, Nikia Scott and Cristina Teuscher, the era of need-blind admissions and need-based aid may be coming to an end.
For centuries, Ivy League colleges had no real policy for giving out aid because they gave relatively little and because no one thought much about it. Their students came from a tight social circle -- a fact that Thomas Jefferson, looking northward toward the spires of New England, attributed to a system of "traditionary reverence for certain families." This tradition continued pretty much unchallenged until the 1930's when a chemist named James Bryant Conant became president of Harvard.
Until Conant's day, recalled the historian Theodore H. White (Harvard '38), the few students of modest means at Harvard were called "meatballs" and regarded by some as "a zoo of specimens of the mobile lower middle class." Conant believed in equal opportunity as a democratic principle. And in the face of what he considered the challenge posed by the Soviet "citadel of learning," he warned against keeping talented students out of America's best institutions because they happened to come from low economic or social circumstances. To open up his own school, he knew he needed a professional admissions staff -- something unknown in the days when Harvard relied for most of its students on nearby prep schools, to which F. Scott Fitzgerald had given the generic name "St. Midas."
When Harvard took its first tentative steps away from "St. Midas," the rest of the Ivy League followed. Through its national network of Harvard Clubs, alumni were pressed into service to go into previously untapped schools in search of academic talent. As standards rose and the applicant pool became nationwide, the new admissions office had to decide not just whom to let in but according to what principles of financial aid. "If we give a very needy student, out of old habit, a tuition scholarship of $600 when he really needs $800, it may be very hard indeed for him," observed John U. Monro, a Harvard dean who conducted the first serious re-evaluation in the history of American higher education of how students were expected to pay. "Two hundred dollars extra means much to this man. On the other hand, there is the man who needs a $400 or $500 scholarship, and out of old habit we may give him a tuition award of $600. If we do, we just give him extra spending money. It is up to us to spot the difference."
This principle has become so fundamental to the process of need-based financial aid that it can be properly called the Monro Doctrine. Today the Monro Doctrine is in trouble.
 SCHOOLS HATE TO LOSE STUDENTS LIKE KEVIN SEAL AND NIKIA Scott and competition has never been fiercer. For years, Ivy League schools held off a bidding war among themselves by sharing financial information about students who had been admitted to more than one Ivy League college. Offers were then adjusted and brought to rough parity, on the premise that students should be able to choose a school for some better reason than favorable cost. But in 1989 the Justice Department charged that this practice amounted to collusive price-fixing. Eventually, schools with need-blind admissions policies were permitted to continue consulting on "common principles" for awarding aid but forbidden from making case-by-case comparisons.
"We don't have anarchy yet," one veteran financial-aid expert told me, "but the pressure to abandon cooperation and sweeten deals for the students you really want is growing." One of my advisees at Columbia is a case in point. Navroz Udwadia, a straight-A student and internationally ranked tennis player from India, applied from his home in Bombay to six Ivy League schools, and his parents (his father is a lawyer; his mother, a professor) duly filled out the need-based financial-aid forms from all six. When the offers came back, they ranged from $6,000 to $16,000. "That $10,000 spread was rather strange," Navroz says with clipped understatement and a confidential smile. "My parents were a little put off." There's no doubt about the reason: competition for exceptional students has gotten so intense that the Ivy League financial-aid structure is starting to crack.
But there is a deeper cause of the crisis: since American families need more help to pay for college than ever before, the Monro Doctrine has become enormously expensive. At Columbia, the average grant has now reached $14,000, and the overall aid budget for the college is approaching $17.5 million. To some extent, the pressures pushing up costs are cyclical. "In the early 90's," James Miller, Harvard's director of financial aid, told me, "I could sit in my office and watch the recession spread like a stain across the country. For a couple of years in a row, we saw three or four hundred families in here asking for increased financial aid because of job loss. Each time, we had to go to the dean of the faculty and ask for a million and a half dollars beyond our original request."
At less wealthy schools, the shortfall between budget and student need is becoming chronic, and arguments about why this is happening can get ugly. Black and Hispanic students tend to get blamed. But these minorities in the Ivy League still constitute only about 15 percent of students and they account for relatively little of the total financial-aid bill.
The real reason for the crunch is the relentless rise in the cost of tuition. Even at relatively inexpensive public institutions, according to a recent General Accounting Office report, tuition over the last 14 years has risen at nearly three times the rate of inflation. Economists don't agree about exactly why tuition has been rising faster than inflation. Some point to the costs of competition for star faculty (with the associated costs of laboratories and research support) and of libraries, which, unlike dormitories, generate virtually no income. And since education is such a labor-intensive activity, universities cannot produce their goods more cheaply through economies of scale without hurting the quality of the product. Beyond marginal improvements in efficiency (leaner administrations, cooperative hiring with other institutions), the only way they can really meet their costs is to charge more.
One big cost is financial aid. As tuition climbs and Government aid declines, private scholarships have soared to meet demand. According to statistics compiled by a research group formed by 31 selective colleges, called the Consortium on Financing Higher Education, the amount of aid they dispensed in 1979 from their own funds was $93 million, or 64 percent of total grants awarded -- with the Government providing the rest. By 1995, that figure reached $601 million, or 82 percent. Government, which was once the economic engine of American universities in the era of the G.I. Bill and the National Defense Education Act, is getting out of the fray. If this trend continues, only a very few schools, like Harvard (whose endowment is the largest) and Princeton (whose endowment per student is even larger), will be able to absorb the spiking expenditure. "Virtually every school in this country," Theodore Bracken, the associate director of the consortium, explained to me, "is facing a day of reckoning when it will no longer be able to close this gap between the cost of attendance and the ability of students to pay."
For Harvard and Princeton, that day may be a long way off. But for other schools, the time of moral testing has already arrived. It's not that there is no way to keep financial-aid costs down. The trouble is that cost containment is fundamentally inconsistent with the avowed principles of need-blind admissions and need-based aid. For instance, it is said that some schools that buy lists of students with high S.A.T. scores from the College Entrance Examination Board (a common practice) are sorting these lists by ZIP code, so they can concentrate their recruitment on wealthy suburbs or on the right side of town. There has also been a huge increase in the admission of candidates for "early decision" and "early action" -- high-school seniors who apply to one school sooner than the usual deadline and are either certain or very likely to enroll in exchange for a quick response. This group is financially better off than the overall applicant pool -- and the colleges know it.
 I SPOKE ABOUT THESE DISTURBING TRENDS WITH VARTAN GREGORIAN, the president of Brown. He is sensitive to criticism that Brown fell from virtue a few years ago when it announced it could no longer guarantee need-blind admissions to its entire entering class. At a certain point as it moves down the applicant list, the Brown admissions staff now considers whether a candidate has applied for aid before it decides whether or not to admit. Circling his office as if chasing down his thoughts, Gregorian told me that by announcing this policy Brown has actually raised the Ivy League standard of honesty. Only after 95 percent of the class is admitted need-blind, he says, does Brown start to give preference to candidates who can pay. Without naming any rival institution, but accenting the key word, he adds that "if you really want to be need-blind, then cover up the applicant's name and address."
What Gregorian means is that the applicant pool holds the key to a school's ultimate financial-aid obligation. A college may be technically need-blind and meet the full need of all admitted students; but if its applicants come mainly from schools like Choate or Brearley or Scarsdale High, chances are the bill won't be too big, no matter which candidates one takes. There is talk that median family income among financial-aid recipients at some Ivy League schools is rising suspiciously fast.
Apart from what admissions officers may be doing through targeted recruitment, there are money-saving methods available to financial-aid officers as well. One technique that Gregorian denounces as "deceptive and immoral" is known as "gapping," the practice of deliberately financing students below their real level of need. Doing this saves money for the institution, but it forces the student to work too many hours or to go deep into debt.
Outside the Ivy League, other insidious practices are cropping up. Officials at some schools are starting to talk about the "econometrics" of admission. Rather than try to assess a student's ability to pay, they use computer models to predict the "willingness to pay" of certain applicant groups -- pre-meds or those with a certain ethnic background or even those who come to campus for an interview. Based on what the computer says about them, students from each group are awarded a different "tuition discount" -- in effect, a scholarship calibrated not to need but to how much they are likely to spend. For instance, applicants who come for an interview might be given a smaller discount, on the assumption that their eagerness means they're willing to pay more. To practitioners of this kind of "enrollment management," the Monro Doctrine is ancient history.
 NO ONE KNOWS WHETHER NEED-BASED AID WILL SURVIVE. Administrators are trying everything they can think of to save it. Some schools have devised repayment plans that give students more time to pay back loans. Private business is becoming involved in aiding students who, in return, are expected to serve as summer interns, though some administrators worry that business intervention may lead to an "indenture" system whereby students would be obliged to serve their sponsors after college as employees.
Yet even as they try to live by the principles of fairness, financial-aid officers can seem to some families like heartless marauders. Probing into matters that most people prefer to keep private, they are about as welcome as the repo man coming after the family car. And they delve into areas where subjective judgment conflicts with paper value: How much is the house really worth if the neighbor's house, grander than one's own, languished on the market for a year or two, and then went for a song? How dare some college bureaucrat guess at the equity and plug it into his mysterious equations?
The financial-aid office, where these data are processed, has come to resemble a clinic at flu season. But it's a season that never abates. All year, students pour in seeking help. Sometimes what brings them in is an act of God. Last fall, after Hurricane Marilyn struck the Caribbean, Columbia students from the region came in with photos of roofless homes and copies of the storm exemption clause in their parents' insurance policies. More commonly, the problem is divorce. "With divorce rates high and climbing," David Charlow, Columbia's director of financial aid told me, "it would be impossible for us to waive the requirement that both parents report their finances. It would drive our costs intolerably high and would be unfair to the many noncustodial parents who do contribute to their child's education."
In contrast to the admissions office, which is in the brutal business of ranking students according to merit, the financial-aid office operates according to the egalitarian principle of "each according to his need." Aid officers try to treat students absolutely equally, the way a good hospital treats all patients who come in through the emergency room. Once the file marked "Admit" comes through the door, the only question they ask is how much the family can pay. What they dread is the day when they will become triage nurses deciding who gets served and who does not. They know that if they were to "send the limo" for their top picks, the competition would have to respond -- and the result, since it's a zero-sum system, would be gravy for the most wanted students and hardship for those ranked lower.
What the financial-aid people fear is that if merit supplants need in determining grants, it will not be long before schools start throwing money at the computer whiz from Grosse Point or the clarinet virtuoso from Beverly Hills. They believe passionately that it is immoral to spend scarce resources on those who don't need the money.
WITH THE FATE OF NEED-BASED AID HANGING IN THE BALANCE, many Ivy League alumni, grateful for the help they got when they were in college, are rallying to the cause. The biggest gift in Columbia's history -- $60 million -- came in 1993 from an alumnus, John Kluge, chairman of Metromedia, for the express purpose of supporting need-based financial aid. But even gifts of this size cannot ultimately solve the problem. The real solution, as it was in the 1950's, has to be a combination of family commitment, institutional support and Government assistance. "Tuition should be tax-deductible," Vartan Gregorian says. Last June, speaking at the Princeton commencement, President Clinton proposed a tax credit to help defray the costs of the first two years of college. Clinton's budget proposal for this year also includes small increases in federally financed student grants, but this kind of legislation flies in the face of the Republican revolution.
Under President Reagan, eligibility for Federal student loans was curtailed, so that today only the neediest students qualify and the middle class is largely shut out. Although a typical family with one child and a pre-tax income approaching $100,000 cannot hope to pay the $30,000 annual cost of an Ivy League education without help, under present rules this family will probably not qualify for a Federal grant. Maybe the college-bound child will get a small Federal loan, or a federally subsidized campus job, but too much of the burden still falls on family and school, and many families are daunted. Meanwhile, state programs like New York's Tuition Assistance Plan are also under the knife.
If the Government fails to come to the rescue, what, finally, will be the cost to American society? What is at stake?
Forty years ago, Ivy League schools transformed themselves from finishing schools into training centers, open to anyone with talent. In the 1950's, the proportion of students receiving grants in the Ivy League was typically 20 percent. Today, it can approach 50 percent. Aware of how much their credentials are worth, these schools have tried to maintain a policy that is in retreat elsewhere in American life: taking a portion of revenue from those who can pay and giving it to those who cannot. If that policy goes the way of other liberal programs, Ivy League campuses will again become preserves for the rich, with a sprinkling of the subsidized poor. As for the broad middle class, the cost of such an education is rising out of reach.
The Monro Doctrine was part of the tide of reform that swept from the New Deal to the Great Society. Since that tide has ebbed, Ivy League schools have tried to keep alive the waning American dream of a socially mobile democracy. The future of this effort involves more than the interests of a few gifted students and a few haughty schools. What's at stake is the fate of a liberal ideal in an increasingly illiberal society.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: IVY LEAGUE STONE MOUNTAIN CHEVROLET (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: IVY LEAGUE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); ATHLETES (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); FAMILY (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); HOME PRICES (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); ARMED FORCES (51%); SWIMMING (50%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: DELBANCO, ANDREW KEVIN SEAL (69%); F SCOTT FITZGERALD (61%); JAMES BRYANT CONANT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



41 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Cinema Verities

BYLINE: By Iain Bamforth; Iain Bamforth is a physician in Strasbourg, France. His next collection of poems, "Open Workings," will be published in October.

 BODY:

 THE FILM EXPLAINER
 By Gert Hofmann.
 Translated by Michael Hofmann.
 250 pp. Evanston, Ill.: Hydra Books/
 Northwestern University Press. $26.95. 
 A fter a long career as a writer of radio plays, Gert Hofmann came late to the novel, just a few years short of his 50th birthday. Widely respected, but never a literary lion or trend setter, he turned out almost a novel a year in the 15 years before his death from a cerebral hemorrhage in 1993. Such a furious rate of production is belied by the brilliant surface of his fiction -- limpid, neutral, hyperrealist, largely indifferent to psychology. He has often been compared to the more pugnacious Thomas Bernhard in his modernist insistence on ironic multiple perspectives, and in pricking fictive bubbles, but Bernhard's books are a long gripe compared with Hofmann's rapid-fire humor, which upends conventional props and hangs the narrative on the speech of his characters. It is a skill presumably acquired from the years of radio work, and it gives his writing a lightness of tone that occasionally can be devastating.
 When it first appeared in German in 1990, "The Film Explainer" was immediately hailed as a comic masterpiece. Like most of Hofmann's novels it is firmly within the mainstream postwar German tradition of questioning the moral pusillanimity of an earlier generation. It starts off like a reminiscence from a family scrapbook, with the voice of 10-year-old Gert Hofmann: "My grandfather Karl Hofmann (1873-1944) worked for many years in the Apollo cinema on the Helenenstrasse in Limbach/Saxony." Grandfather, as the grandson explains matter-of-factly, "was the film explainer and piano player in Limbach. They still had those, back then. A lot of them came from the fairgrounds, from the 'apish origins of art' (Grandfather)."
 Grandfather has all-round talents, "but they're no use for anything." Clad in the tails and waistcoat purchased by Grandmother as a working outfit, he creates the perfect atmosphere for every film, pointing up the action with his music "and his explanations, especially in the dramatic bits." Grandfather puts words together for a living, and tries to make a philosophy out of them. The natural world bores him. He is looking for his "second world," and can't find it. Or at least only in the cinema. Not that the films themselves really need explaining. Nevertheless, every day at 6, except for Mondays, Grandfather appears before dwindling audiences at the Apollo and explains such classic cinema as " 'The Indian Tomb,' 1921, with Conrad Veidt and Mia May" or " 'The Honeymoon,' 1928, with Erich von Stroheim," not forgetting that Alpine drama " 'The Blue Light,' 1932, with Leni Riefenstahl and Matthias Wiemann."
 All of this is delivered in a memorably laconic manner, grandfatherly dicta and pedantic film-buff citations sitting cheek by jowl. Grandfather is clearly one in a long history of artists without an income, and not much of an art. There is, inevitably, a dark side to his explaining, and that is where the audience sits. Modern art, Nietzsche wrote, is the art of tyrannizing, and never more so than in the 20th century's quintessential form, the cinema. Momentously, and not just for Grandfather, the sound-film era is about to arrive -- an event that threatens to leave him entirely unemployed. He starts attending political meetings and fraternizes with Herr Gotze and Herr Friedrich, who wear brown shirts and talk about the time they met "HIM." As far as Grandfather's interest in politics goes, National Socialism is the possible savior of silent film. Sent to Berlin as a "deputy flag waver" in the Deutschlandtreffen of May 1, 1939, and in the capital for the first time in ages, he decides to go and see a talkie at the Gloria Palais instead of assembling with his flag. "The film Grandfather saw and was to rave about until his death was of course 'Gone With the Wind' " (a film the Fuhrer himself was an avid fan of). On May 24, 1944, he dies when a stray bomb falls on the Apollo. Grandmother attends the burial and, as the grandson records, " 'out of anger at such a stupid death,' hadn't even changed or put on a hat."
 Hofmann simultaneously presents a discomforting fictive memoir, alludes to Kafka's "Hunger Artist" and the glory years of Babelsberg and German celluloid, comments on the spectral theatrics of the cinema as a form of tyranny, and makes a parable out of Grandfather's art of forcing meaning from the apparently self-evident. External reality is oppressively present for scarcely being mentioned -- when Herr Theilhaber, the cinema's Jewish owner, "disappears," the event is summed up in the theatrical phrase, "He's over the hills and far away!" -- and it is readily apparent that the rhetorical blankness of the explainer's screen is able to accommodate any sort of explanation, even the denunciations his Nazi cronies obtain by trickery. Nothing recapitulates better the tragicomic allure and deflation of this novel (which has been translated, in a further biographical twist, by Gert Hofmann's son Michael) than a throwaway line near the end: "Grandfather at 70 said: In the beginning was the light. The light was switched off."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FILM EXPLAINER, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); GRANDPARENTS (86%); MUSIC (77%); TRENDS (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); 

PERSON: BAMFORTH, IAIN; HOFMANN, GERT J MICHAEL HOFMANN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



42 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: No Vacancy

BYLINE: By Francis Fukuyama; Francis Fukuyama is a professor of public policy at George Mason University and the author, most recently, of "Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity."

 BODY:

 The Case Against Immigration
The Moral, Economic, Social,
and Environmental Reasons for Reducing
U.S. Immigration Back to Traditional Levels.
By Roy Beck.
287 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $24.
The Immigration Mystique
America's False Conscience.
By Chilton Williamson Jr.
202 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $23. 
 There are two separate cases to be made against immigration, one economic and reflecting the concerns of the left, the other cultural and from the right. They are laid out by Roy Beck and Chilton Williamson Jr., respectively; the arguments, while not altogether new, are presented carefully and dispassionately and deserve serious answers. These two books have a great deal in common. Both assert that immigration has been opposed by large majorities of Americans, not just in the recent past but since the first big wave of Irish and Germans reached America in the 1840's. Both note that despite these wishes, pro-immigration policies have been successfully prosecuted by elites. Both point to John F. Kennedy's pivotal role in the immigration act that became law in 1965, opening the gates to a new wave, and both criticize the measure's supporters for being dishonest in understating the size and consequences of its passage. Both complain that foes of immigration are tarred with the charge of bigotry in ways that stifle reasonable discussion.
"The Case Against Immigration" makes a coherent populist argument for cutting immigration on the ground that it contributes to the "crisis of the middle class" -- stagnant to falling real wages that breed deteriorating communities and crumbling families. Mr. Beck, the Washington editor of The Social Contract, a quarterly journal, advocates capping immigration to create labor shortages and so drive up wages, thus re-creating the working-class prosperity of the 1950's, while forcing the adoption of labor-saving technology to cushion the impact of rising wage costs on consumers. Immigration, he argues, has been particularly harmful to blacks, whose social mobility was held back by European immigrants during Reconstruction and is held back by Hispanics today.
Mr. Beck tries to make the untenable case that immigration harms all sectors of the economy, including high technology, detailing every conceivable cost while ignoring any benefits and assuming that the economy can provide only a fixed number of jobs. But if Eric Benhamou, the founder of 3Com, a major computer networking company, had not emigrated from Algeria, his job would not have been filled by a native; 3Com, with its billions in market capitalization, and the 3,000 jobs it has created, would simply not exist.
Mr. Beck is on stronger ground when he argues that immigration has increased the gap between rich and poor. While the number of high-skill jobs is open-ended, low-skill work has been disappearing, and there is evidence that immigration has driven down the wages of inner-city blacks and others at the bottom of the labor market. The problem with Mr. Beck's anti-immigrationist solution is that competition from immigrant workers is only one of several reasons for falling working-class incomes. Equally if not more important are technological advance, foreign competition both in the form of the import of goods and the export of jobs, the opening up of formerly protected sectors to greater competition, and the entry of women into the work force. Ending immigration would not begin to restore working-class incomes, or bring back those tidy neighborhoods and families that Mr. Beck nostalgically evokes. The United States would also have to erect protectionist walls (something I suspect Mr. Beck also favors) and reregulate many industries. The short-term consequence would be higher levels of unemployment (as in Europe), and in the longer run a debacle as the United States priced itself out of global markets.
While Chilton Williamson Jr. also points to immigration's consequences for working Americans, blacks and the environment, his real concern is with culture. He shows that from the country's founding, Americans have believed themselves united by something more than the democratic idea and the Constitution; as John Jay put it in the Federalist Papers, "Providence has been pleased to give this one connected country to one united people, a people descended from the same ancestors . . . very similar in their manners and customs." American identity was based on Anglo-Saxon Protestant culture; already greatly weakened by the "great wave" of immigration of 1880-1924, it is now, Mr. Williamson says, under intense attack by more recent arrivals. A senior editor of Chronicles: A Magazine of American Culture, he makes a cogent case that the multiculturalism of many liberal supporters of immigration will further erode what is left of a once coherent common culture.
Mr. Williamson argues persuasively that the United States should judge immigration in terms of its own national interests, and that the interests of immigrants do not automatically trump the right of a national community to determine its own cultural identity. The weakness of his view is that if one takes seriously the need for a common culture, based not on ethnicity but on shared values like work ethic, individual responsibility, concern for family and the like, immigrants are more likely to do good than harm. Not only do many immigrants possess these virtues to a greater extent than natives, but the cultural disintegration deplored by Mr. Williamson is a project pushed primarily by native elites, both white and black, to protect their positions or beliefs, and would remain even if immigration were shut off and the last five million foreigners sent home. The problem of multiculturalism ought to be dealt with in its own terms.
Both Mr. Beck's concern over the falling incomes of low-skilled workers and Mr. Williamson's worries about cultural disintegration can be addressed by the kind of "designer immigration" advocated by Ben Wattenberg: clamping down on illegal immigration while reorienting legal immigration to skills rather than family reunification. Still, while it is easy to disagree with both these books, the authors have presented their cases in a way that fosters serious debate rather than name-calling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CASE AGAINST IMMIGRATION, THE (BOOK); IMMIGRATION MYSTIQUE, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LEGISLATION (72%); LITERATURE (72%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%); 

PERSON: FUKUYAMA, FRANCIS; BECK, ROY; WILLIAMSON, CHILTON JR JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996



43 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Labor Is What Others Do for Us

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson; Victor Davis Hanson, a fifth-generation farmer and a professor of classics at California State University, Fresno, is the author of "Fields Without Dreams: Defending the Agrarian Idea."

DATELINE: SELMA, Calif.

 BODY:
My family owns a farm, and last week we shipped a 28-pound box of Castleman plums to the East Coast. We received $7 for that box, but it will probably be sold at retail for somewhere between $50 and $70.
We grew the fruit, packed it, loaded it on a pallet and trucked it to a local cold storage plant. In return, we earned about what we did 20 years ago. The men who picked those plums made no more than they did 15 years ago. But somewhere from here to the coast, these plums -- sold to the broker, resold to the distributor, resold to the store and resold to you -- became precious gold that enriched everyone except those who grew and harvested them. 
 I, like every small family farmer in America now, could give similar examples of prices that do not even cover the cost of production for raisins, nectarines and pears.
Small family farmers as a class are, of course, blinkered complainers, and they are always critical of the returns they receive. But for once we should listen to these touched Cassandras who wail about the loss of American values and the shrinking recompense given for hard, physical work.
They are warning us of a growing national malady: the widening economic chasm between those who make and those who sell and between the power of muscle and the power of talk.
In the last 20 years the traditional disadvantages of producers have radically multiplied for the growers of food, and for a host of others in this country, whom I will call creators -- the person on the assembly line, the carpenter repairing a house, or a bulldozer operator grading a road.
The real compensation that our society pays for life's essentials -- food and clothing -- is steadily eroding, and we are now beginning to pay the cultural and social costs. Our country is experiencing an increase in crime, hopelessness, political extremism and loss of faith.
But our political leaders and economists reassure us that diminution in the value of labor is but an inevitable consequence of globalization, free trade and the rise of an information society.
Yet the decline should not be inevitable, or at least not entirely. Rather, compensation for the men and women who do physical work is a test of our country's morality and of our character, and finally, of our national interest.
We have become two societies, one of arms and backs, one of suits and laptops. College, we have been told for two decades, is mandatory for our youth, not because we want knowledgeable, literate or ethical citizens, but because we don't want our children to fall into the social and economic void of the wage laborer, where the life of affluence, mobility, leisure and choice is not found.
We send our children to computer camps so that they may learn how to gain access to information instantaneously, but most of us would never give our children a shovel and gloves and send them to dig weeds for a month so that they develop a sense of what it is to get dirty and tired for someone else.
Congress, after much vitriolic debate, passed a slight raise in the minimum wage. And President Clinton signed the bill a few weeks ago. But the difference between $4.25 an hour and $5.15 an hour does not come close to addressing the growing cultural as well as income gap.
We are apparently reluctant to pay the man on his knees --, who trowels cement and provides safety, comfort and beauty through his sidewalks -- , a thousandth of what we so generously give to the man who dines aloft in fine restaurants, packaging a merger. Without a debate, we in this country have decided that the men and women who hoe, stoop and build are not of the same worth as those who do not.
Democrat and Republican alike, we want others to cut our lawn, feed our kids, tend to the diapers of our parents and children, clean our toilets and shoot our enemies. But we want them to do it for a price that allows us to live in a world that is not and will never be theirs.
History should warn us of the peril of this course. Too often civilizations are characterized by two classes, bureaucracies and palaces ruling over an enormous number of serfs.
The Mycenaeans, the palatial bureaucracies of Egypt and the Hittites, the Mayans and Aztecs should all teach us the perils of creating cadres of clerks, who advertise, sell, negotiate, legitimize, sue, administer and regulate over a vast underclass who feed, clothe, house and protect them.
Such societies, it is true, were remarkable for their organization of labor and capital. They left behind impressive monuments and tombs for their elite. Affluence and leisure abounded for a few. But their legacy is not, and has never been, consensual government, freedom and the literary and cultural achievements that accrue from egalitarian societies.
Small family farmers are not seeking $40 for that box of plums, not even $20. But $10 or $15 for that box would make all the difference between salvation and ruin for some small family farmers and the forgotten world of hard-working pickers, mechanics, builders and drivers.
But renegotiating a fairer deal with the middlemen will never come about without the proper respect for the muscle that truly drives this country. Labor Day should remind all of us in this information age that before we can network, counsel, conference or advertise, we must still first eat, sleep, clean and find shelter.
Of each dollar we spend, a little less should go to the man on the phone who closes the deal, and a little bit more to the man on the ladder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; LABOR FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); CRIME RATES (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); 

PERSON: HANSON, VICTOR DAVIS

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



44 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Rebels Kill 80 in Strongest Attacks in Colombia in Decades

BYLINE: By PAMELA MERCER 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Sept. 1

 BODY:
Left-wing rebels mounted one of their deadliest offensives in decades over the weekend, killing at least 80 soldiers and policemen in separate incidents throughout the country.
In the worst attack, which occurred on Friday night, 54 soldiers were killed and 17 were wounded when 500 rebels overran Las Delicias army base, in the southwestern Putumayo region along the Caqueta River, Defense Ministry spokesmen said. Another 26 soldiers were missing and believed to have been kidnapped by the rebels. 
 Military spokesmen said it was the greatest loss of life by the army in a single rebel attack since the guerrillas began battling the Government nearly 40 years ago. Because it occurred in an isolated, densely-forested area, news of the attack did not reach the rest of the country until Saturday afternoon.
Military spokesmen said the guerrillas used rockets and grenades in that attack as well as in other strikes in 10 different locations, where the rebels targeted police and army installations in small towns and destroyed public buildings and banks.
The authorities attributed the attacks to members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known by the Spanish acronym FARC. The group, one of the oldest guerrilla factions in Latin America, was once a pro-Cuban Marxist movement. But Cuba's support for FARC waned in the mid-1980's, and it has been years since the group has stated its exact goals, aside from opposing the Government.
In the last decade, the group has stepped up its kidnappings for ransom and has become involved in Colombia's drug trade by extorting money from coca growers and drug traffickers to protect their crops and routes from the authorities and by operating its own drug-processing laboratories. Both of those lucrative businesses have allowed FARC to grow considerably in recent years.
The attacks come at a time when the Government of President Ernesto Samper faces generalized unrest. Thousands of peasants, farmers and workers have been clamoring for greater economic investment and social programs that Mr. Samper promised during his 1994 campaign but, they say, has yet to deliver. Since mid-July, about 130,000 people have been involved in demonstrations around the country.
The unrest is widely attributed to Mr. Samper's weakness and loss of credibility after being exonerated last June of charges of drug-related corruption by a Congress that faces similar accusations. Polls show that most Colombians distrusted the congressional decision and that Mr. Samper and his aides have lost the leverage needed to keep the country under control.
In what is seen as an effort to placate the United States, Mr. Samper has embarked on an ambitious coca eradication program that seeks to wipe out more than 67,000 acres of illegal crops this year. The plan has met its fiercest resistance in regions like Putumayo.
A week ago a Government commission met with peasant leaders in Putumayo and signed an agreement in which the Government pledged to increase social programs and investment in the area in return for an end to the protests. While spokesmen for the peasants said the accord guaranteed that coca crops would not be forcefully eradicated, Government officials denied that their eradication program had been compromised.
In the ensuing confusion, analysts worried that the Government was making hasty promises in an attempt to buy time and stave off further trouble. "All this makes one conclude that the agreement in Putumayo, rather than deactivating a time bomb, has temporarily put off an explosion," wrote Semana, a Bogota weekly.
Indeed, the scenes witnessed in Putumayo echo what happened in December 1994, when the Government first announced its eradication program. Violent protests ended only after the Government agreed to make investments worth $1 million in the region.
"The credibility of those agreements inspires doubts," wrote Enrique Santos Caldera An, a columnist for El Tiempo newspaper, at the time. He add that if the Government did not honor its commitments soon, "it would not be surprising if in six months these areas are again up in arms."
Military leaders have said the protesters are being manipulated by guerrilla leaders who want to protect one of their main sources of livelihood. Yet demonstrations have also included thousands of farmers who grow legal crops, as well as transportation workers in Bogota who are asking for pay raises.
The attacks this weekend appear to have ended any immediate chances of peace negotiations with guerrilla groups. Besides the FARC, two other left-wing guerrilla groups, the National Liberation Army and the Popular Liberation Army, are active in Colombia.

GRAPHIC: Map of Colombia showing the location of Las Delicias.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CUBA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%); 

COMPANY: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CUBA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); EXTORTION (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (64%); CORRUPTION (60%); 

PERSON: SAMPER, ERNESTO (PRES); MERCER, PAMELA ERNESTO SAMPER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



45 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: With Crime This Low, Honesty Is Easier

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SENTINEL BUTTE, N.D.

 BODY:
In this hard-working town, where wheat fields lap to the edges of backyards, Albert (Buzz) Olson has found a novel way to sell gas and to work across town as postmaster -- at the same time.
"It's completely on your honor," said the amiable gas station owner, who has given gas-pump keys to just about every adult in town -- 42 drivers. "They just turn on the switch, pump the gas, put their money in the slot and are on their merry way. Haven't lost a nickel yet." 
 A gas station run on the honor system is not just peculiar to Golden Valley County but is reflective of the state of North Dakota, which routinely ranks as having the lowest crime rate in the nation. According to Federal Bureau of Investigation statistics for 1994, the latest year available, North Dakota had the nation's lowest murder rate, lowest robbery rate, lowest violent-crime rate and lowest state prisoner incarceration rate.
From this farming town to Fargo, the state's largest city, the low level of crime allows for human behavior that would seem bizarre elsewhere.
Last January, during a bitter, three-day cold snap, Jeff Olson, who is no relation to Albert Olson, never turned his car off during the day.
"After I backed the car out of the garage in the morning, I just left it running for 15 or 17 hours" in a parking lot, said Mr. Olson, an art gallery owner in Bismarck, the state capital with a population of 50,000.
In New Rockford, Ken Throlson, a buffalo rancher, never takes the keys out of the ignition of his station wagon, no matter what the weather. He growled, "It gets me mad when someone in my family takes the key out."
Down in Fargo, people are still steaming over the movie of the same name, which depicted seven murders in two hours. Last year Fargo recorded one murder.
Statewide, the homicide rate has been so low -- eight in 1995 -- that the authorities have usually shipped the bodies of murder victims to neighboring Minnesota for autopsies. But, with Minnesota charging as much as $15,000 for each autopsy, the penny-pinching North Dakotans broke down in June and created the office of state medical examiner.
Experts caution that the new office does not mean that law and order are unraveling on the high plains. North Dakota's crime rates are at essentially the same levels as 15 years ago.
In Fargo, a tidy city dominated by a Viking ship memorial to Norwegian pioneers, serious crime is so rare that the local newspaper, The Forum, has no full-time reporter on the police beat. After a rash of burglaries, the Fargo police campaigned this year to teach the city's 80,000 residents to lock their doors and windows when leaving home.
"I have friends around town who don't lock their bikes, their cars, their houses," Richard W. Rathge, director of the North Dakota State Census Data Center, said in Fargo.
Because of low crime rates, security companies generally steer clear of the state and insurance companies charge the lowest car insurance rates in the nation, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The average auto insurance premium is $467 here, compared with $1,106 in New Jersey, the most expensive state.
The basket of indicators behind North Dakota's low crime rates give insight into why crime rates are higher elsewhere, criminologists say.
In a state that recorded only 28 purse snatchings and 35 armed robberies in 1994, crime experts cite factors ranging from cold weather to a largely rural population and strong families.
"Forty below keeps the riffraff out," read coffee mugs sold in Bismarck, a city notorious for cold winters.
States with the lowest murder rates in 1994 were, from the bottom: North Dakota, Vermont, South Dakota, New Hampshire, Iowa and Maine. The highest murder rates were recorded, in order, in Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Alabama and California.
"North Dakota is cold, and for a number of months during the year, people aren't outside -- in Louisiana, it's year round," said Scott Morgan, a Kansan who published in July a survey, Crime State Rankings 1996.
In the area of violent crime, North Dakota and Vermont recorded fewer than 100 incidents per 100,000 residents in 1994. Florida, South Carolina, California and Nevada recorded more than 1,000 incidents per 100,000 residents.
Crime also tends to be lower in rural states. In North Dakota, half of the state's 640,000 residents live in communities of fewer than 2,500 inhabitants, like Sentinel Butte.
"One of the reasons that crime is so low in North Dakota is that people are so close-knit," said Joe Chaske, tribal judge for the Spirit Lake Sioux. "You get a bank robber or a shady character come into town, and he stands out like a sore thumb."
Criminologists also link transience and crime.
Nevada, Florida, Alaska and Arizona -- the states with the lowest portions of locally born populations in the 1990 census -- rank among the highest in property-crime rates. In contrast to 22 percent of Nevada's population, 73 percent of North Dakota's population was born in the state.
In interviews, politicians and criminologists alike repeatedly attributed North Dakota's low crime rate to strong, two-parent families.
"Something like 85 percent of our students come from two-parent families," said Gov. Edward T. Schafer, a Republican.
Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat, agreed, adding: "It's not just fewer single mothers -- it's more extended families, more relationships with clergy."
The state sometimes seems to be a place bypassed by America's social dislocations of the 1960's and 1970's.
North Dakota has a divorce rate well below the national average and its percentage of births to unmarried women -- 23 percent of all births in the state -- is the fifth lowest in the nation. The state also has one of the highest high school graduation rates in the nation -- 87 percent.
Once out of school, young North Dakotans find a local economy with an unemployment rate of 2.6 percent, less than half the national average.
"There is no single factor that causes violent behavior, criminal behavior," concluded Thomas McDonald, director of the criminal justice program at North Dakota State University in Fargo.
A member of the North Dakota parole board, Mr. McDonald sometimes feels a bit like the fabled Maytag repairman. The board meets only once a month, for one day.
North Dakota contradicts arguments that packed prisons mean lower crime rates. Nationwide, 1 out of 167 Americans is in jail. In North Dakota, 1 resident out of 1,000 is behind bars.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The postmaster of Sentinel Butte, N.D., Albert (Buzz) Olson, in the gas station he owns across town. A gas station in Sentinel Butte, N.D., that operates on the honor system. Patrons "just turn on the switch, pump the gas, put their money in the slot and are on their merry way," said Albert (Buzz) Olson, the owner. (Photographs by Richard Volesky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: FARGO, ND, USA (91%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA; SENTINEL BUTTE (ND); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FARGO, ND, USA (91%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RURAL AREAS CRIME RATES (93%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (91%); GAS STATIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (88%); AUTOPSIES (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); BURGLARY (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); ROBBERY (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); PRISONS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); ART DEALERS (64%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



46 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Junta Seems Headed for Showdown

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: YANGON, Myanmar, Sept. 1

 BODY:
It was raining hard on Saturday, but for an hour applause and whistles and laughter came from under a sea of black umbrellas as Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, a spray of pink flowers in her hair, taunted the military Government, saying, "Why are you so afraid of us?"
Within the crowd of 2,000, squatting on both sides of University Avenue as traffic crept by, people hunched over small tape recorders, risking arrest to spread the words of the leader of the hard-pressed democratic movement in Myanmar, formerly Burma. 
 For 13 months, since releasing her from six years of house arrest, the Government has permitted Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, 51, to hold regular weekend rallies at her front gate in the capital, formerly called Rangoon, even as it continues to arrest her supporters and attack her in the press.
But in recent months the positions of the two sides have been hardening, and foreign diplomats here say this small window of freedom that has been accorded Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi may be closing.
Hopes for a dialogue have faded, and the struggle between the military rulers and their democratic opponents is now one of heightened confrontation.
"We are increasing the momentum of our work, and they are increasing the momentum of arrests," Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi told foreign reporters before Saturday's speech.
One Western diplomat who comes every week to the rallies said he found Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi these days to be "more tense, more stressed."
"She is under a lot of pressure," he said. "She has to keep the momentum up, but fatigue is setting in. Some of her leaders are old. Some are in prison. Some have died. She knows she will lose a waiting game; there is nothing more to wait for."
For its part, the military junta continues to whittle away at her supporters with arrests and prison sentences. Stepping up its pressure, it has begun identifying and detaining the more demonstrative members of the crowds at her weekly rallies, said one of her chief lieutenants, U Tin Oo.
The military has already proved its stubbornness, crushing a popular uprising in 1988 with mass killings and discarding the results of a free election in 1990 when Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, won 85 percent of the seats in Parliament.
Some people, though, like one medical doctor who stood under an umbrella with a tape recorder in his hand, say they come to her rallies every week.
"I have relatives in Australia, and they are rich and well-educated," the doctor said. "Just because I live in Burma, why can't I be rich and educated too?"
The rallies have also become a tourist attraction, and the crowd on Saturday was sprinkled with visitors from the United States, France, Japan, Spain, Germany and Britain, aiming their cameras at Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi as she laughed and gesticulated in the rain.
Around the city this weekend, though, a number of people said they did not dare to attend, including some who work for Government enterprises and said they had been ordered to stay away.
But word spreads, as one chemist said, "from mouth to mouth.
"I have been to see her twice and I like her," the chemist said. "In Burma if you like someone you will follow them."
Nevertheless, he said, the Government was succeeding in eroding her popularity with its continuing attacks in the press, "like water dripping on a stone."
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's main weapon now seems to be the support of Western countries, particularly the United States. But any moves the West may take, like an economic boycott, have already been undercut by the support that the military Government has received from its neighbors in the region.
Foreign analysts here say the Government seems to have been emboldened by its induction in July as an observer member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the regional economic and political grouping. In recent weeks these countries have signaled their intent to continue to to do business with Myanmar despite its human rights record.
Speaking at the association's July meeting in Jakarta, Indonesia, Myanmar's Foreign Minister, U Ohn Gyaw, stated his Government's position on human rights in words not unlike those those used by some of his neighbors.
"We respect the norms and the ideals of human rights," he said. "But as in any other country in Southeast Asia, we have to take into consideration our culture, our history, our ethos. What is good in other countries cannot be good in our country."
At her meeting with reporters on Saturday, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi described the continuing arrests of her supporters since May, when the Government detained more than 250 members of her party in advance of a gathering at her house that marked the sixth anniversary of their aborted election victory.
Though she said all but 11 of those people had since been released, she said at least 61 more had been arrested since May and about 25 had been tried and sentenced to prison terms.
"We want the whole world to know that there is no rule of law in Burma," she said. "They are not interested in fair play. Their main drive is to crush the movement for democracy."
Just down the street from her house was a giant red billboard that read: "People's desire: Oppose those relying on external elements, acting as stooges, holding negative views. Crush all internal and external destructive elements as the common enemy."
But near this denunciation of the democracy movement stood white-shirted policemen directing the traffic that crept past the rally.
It is a precarious balance that holds the seeds of confrontation.
Asked what she would do if the Government moved to ban her rallies, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi responded, "We would continue to hold the rallies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While the opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi addressed supporters, men believed to be secret police officers filmed the crowd. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (96%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%); FRANCE (66%); 

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (96%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%); FRANCE (66%); YANGON, MYANMAR (55%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HOUSE ARREST (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); POLITICS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); SENTENCING (68%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



47 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Familiar Faces Vie for New Mayorship

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 1

 BODY:
In the moments before one of their televised debates, there was Maurice A. Ferre, former Miami Mayor and Dade County commissioner, sharing a joke with Arthur Teele Jr., former commissioner and at one time Miami mayoral candidate against Mr. Ferre.
Then there was Mr. Teele whispering with Xavier L. Suarez, another former Miami Mayor, who got the post by ousting Mr. Ferre and held on to it despite later challenges by both Mr. Ferre and Mr. Teele. On the air they were joined by Alex Penelas, at 34 the least experienced but a politician who served with both Mr. Ferre and Mr. Teele on the Dade County Commission. 
 In an 11-way race for Dade County's first "strong" Mayor in Tuesday's election, these four are the front-runners. So far it has been Mr. Penelas who has taken the brunt of campaign-related acrimony. He is ahead in the polls, although he is not expected to avoid a runoff, which will be on Oct. 1.
For the first time the metropolitan area -- known as Miami although it actually encompasses not only the city of Miami but Dade County's 26 other municipalities and its unincorporated areas -- will have an executive with powers to set countywide policy. Political experts say the winner will define a post that is expected to bring more accountability to a government serving more than two million residents and spending a budget of $4 billion a year.
The city of Miami and the county's other municipalities will continue to have their own officials, and the relationship between them and the county will be unchanged.
Dade County's elected Mayor used to preside over the County Commission but was little more than a figurehead. Now, although both the County Commission and the county manager will retain their functions, the Mayor will have veto power over the commission and, with the commission's approval, the power to hire and fire the county manager.
And unlike the 13 commission members, elected by district, the Mayor will respond to a countywide electorate. The changes resulted from a Federal court decision that found the election of the former County Commission discriminatory against minorities.
The new executive is expected to build consensus and give direction to a form of government that, in the words of Mr. Teele, "sort of meandered like an amoeba."
"It'll be truer to the model of executive office and legislative authority," said Christopher Warren, a political science professor at Florida International University here. "There's a potential for stronger leadership and a more focused direction in terms of policy."
In a county that bills itself as an international business capital, issues include expanding transportation and other elements of the infrastructure, which would be aimed at spurring economic growth, and putting more police officers on the streets. But the county's often fractious ethnic communities have also made unity a campaign issue.
Among the county's registered voters, 41 percent are non-Latin white, 37 percent Hispanic and 20 percent non-Latin black, according to the latest registration figures.
Mr. Teele, who is black, has made fairness his main theme. He frequently accuses his two Cuban-American opponents of snubbing two black leaders who were seen as friendly to Fidel Castro.
While Mayor of Miami, Mr. Suarez refused to provide an official welcome to Nelson Mandela during his visit in 1990 and criticized him for not denouncing human rights violations in Cuba. Earlier this year Mr. Penelas was among six commissioners who walked out of an awards ceremony for Andrew Young, although Mr. Penelas said he left to attend to other county business and meant no disrespect.
"The Mayor must be a cohesive force," said Mr. Teele, 50, saying he is the voice of the "left out." "If the Mayor panders to a particular group, this town is going to blow apart."
The Puerto Rican-born Mr. Ferre, 61, Miami's first Hispanic Mayor, who served from 1973 to 1985, alienated his black constituency when he dismissed a black city manager after his last re-election. But he is casting himself as the most experienced and visionary -- much of the city's skyline was built during his tenure -- and he has won the endorsement of The Miami Herald.
"Judge us not only on what we said but what we've done throughout our political career," Mr. Ferre said.
Mr. Suarez, 47, Miami's Mayor from 1985 to 1993, known for a nuts-and-bolts style of governing that won him the nickname "the pothole mayor," casts himself as a reformer. He is a self-described micromanager who promises to cut waste and inefficiency in county government.
"I have a platform of change and a proven record of completing things," he said.
Mr. Penelas emphasizes that he was born and reared in the area and says he wants to address people's basic concerns about education, transportation and other issues. He promises to be true to his campaign slogan "People First." He has been widely criticized, however, for taking large sums of money from special interests, including builders and the insurance industry, that has allowed him to outspend the others for television advertising.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Candidates for mayor of Dade County, Fla., which includes Miami, before a televised debate. They were, from left, Alex Penelas, Arthur Teele Jr., Xavier L. Suarez and Maurice A. Ferre. The mayor's powers have been strengthened with a veto over the County Commission and more control over hiring. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DADE COUNTY COMMISSION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: DADE COUNTY COMMISSION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DADE COUNTY (FLA); MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS COUNTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); VETO (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA MAURICE A FERRE (91%); ARTHUR TEELE JR (90%); ALEX PENELAS (73%); XAVIER L SUAREZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



48 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Assails a Study by Economist

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
It is hard to imagine anybody getting worked up over a book entitled, "The Failure of Antitrust and Regulation to Establish Competition in Long-Distance Telephone Service."
But as Paul W. MacAvoy, the book's author, recently discovered, even an abstruse economic analysis can inflame people who take competition in long-distance seriously -- especially when those people also happen to work for the nation's largest long-distance carrier. 
 For several months, the AT&T Corporation has dispatched snipers to take aim at Mr. MacAvoy's book, using guerrilla tactics designed to raise doubts about its data and conclusions.
AT&T is perfectly capable of doing the same kind of lobbying against a book that it has used against unfavorable legislation or proposed regulations. But the kind of tactics that have plenty of precedent in marketing battles or lobbying campaigns are received differently in the realm of books and ideas.
In this case, timing is obviously a factor. The rules of engagement for the newly deregulated telecommunications market are still being written at the Federal Communications Commission, whose staffers are just the kind of people who might stay up late reading Mr. MacAvoy's book. There is no evidence that any AT&T executive actively sought to suppress the work, but AT&T's complaints and maneuvering left Mr. MacAvoy dubious about the company's intentions.
"I don't know if they ever made a direct frontal attempt to block the book," said Mr. MacAvoy, who is a professor and the former dean of the Yale School of Management, "but I have my suspicions."
According to several industry executives, AT&T pressured the book's co-publisher, the American Enterprise Institute, to put out a study by two other economists countering much of Mr. MacAvoy's argument.
The institute is a Washington research group that publishes monographs and books with a generally free-market orientation. Supported in part by corporate contributions -- from AT&T, among others -- it is home to conservative luminaries like Jeane J. Kirkpatrick and Irving Kristol. As it has before, A.E.I. co-published Mr. MacAvoy's work with the M.I.T. Press.
AT&T acknowledged that it complained often and loudly to officials at the institute about Mr. MacAvoy's methods and conclusions. But Mark Rosenblum, the vice president of law and public policy at AT&T, said that the reaction went no further.
"MacAvoy's research has been around in one form or another for years," Mr. Rosenblum said. "It isn't plausible that all of a sudden in 1995, we'd be running around trying to suppress it."
But with the F.C.C.'s rules still being written, several industry executives said the last thing AT&T needs is a noted Yale economist declaring long distance a cozy cartel.
For AT&T and the regional Bell telephone companies, economic studies like Mr. MacAvoy's can be cudgels in a fierce lobbying battle. They lend academic heft to arguments over how fast -- and on what terms -- the Baby Bells should be allowed to offer long-distance service.
"The stakes in these things are very high," said Peter Pitsch, an adjunct fellow at the Hudson Institute, who has been hired by AT&T to rebut him.
The nub of Mr. MacAvoy's argument is that since 1990, the long-distance market has functioned as an oligopoly. AT&T has set rates for service that increase each year, and the MCI Communications Corporation and the Sprint Corporation have followed in lockstep. As a result, Mr. MacAvoy contends, long-distance carriers enjoy operating profit margins of more than 60 percent -- among the highest of any industry.
Like Mr. Pitsch, Mr. MacAvoy has been paid by companies that have a stake in his views -- in his case, the Baby Bells. In 1994, he received $200,000 to submit an affidavit in support of the Bells when they petitioned Federal District Judge Harold H. Greene to allow them into the long-distance business. Judge Greene, who oversaw the antitrust consent decree that broke up AT&T, declined.
Mr. MacAvoy said that he used that $200,000 to develop computer software to analyze reams of long-distance rates from AT&T, Sprint and MCI. He financed the rest of the book with part of a $750,000 research grant from the John M. Olin Foundation. Mr. MacAvoy, a former economic adviser to Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George Bush, has also done research for the Pacific Telesis Group and the GTE Corporation.
AT&T's objections to Mr. Mac Avoy's book hinge on his failure to include its vast advertising and promotional expenses in calculating the cost of providing telephone service. Mr. Rosenblum said AT&T's profit margin on long-distance was actually less than 15 percent in 1995.
Mr. Pitsch said Mr. MacAvoy also glosses over a critical fact: Most heavy residential callers subscribe to discount calling plans like AT&T's "True USA" or MCI's "Friends and Family." Those rates have declined, even in Mr. MacAvoy's charts. "MacAvoy is painting this picture of an enormously successful, tacitly collusive arrangement between AT&T, MCI and Sprint," he said, "But that doesn't square with the huge churn in the business."
Whatever the validity of his research, Mr. MacAvoy's book whipped up a storm in the normally quiet confines of the American Enterprise Institute, whose board of trustees includes Alex J. Mandl, the former president of AT&T.
Chris DeMuth, the president of the institute, said that Mr. Mandl did criticize Mr. MacAvoy's study. But people familiar with the situation said that AT&T really ratcheted up the pressure in a meeting last June with J. Gregory Sidak, the research fellow who oversees the project.
These people said that two senior AT&T regulatory executives pressed Mr. Sidak to publish a separate study by Robert D. Willig, a Princeton economist who has done work for AT&T, and Douglas Bernheim, a Stanford economist, which would take a sharply different view of competition in the long-distance industry than Mr. MacAvoy. The executives brought along a partner from AT&T's law firm, Sidley & Austin, to observe the meeting.
Mr. Sidak denied that he felt pressured, saying only that, "AT&T wanted to suggest policy ideas that might be worthy of pursuit." The second project foundered .
Mr. MacAvoy, for his part, predicted that his book would have little impact on F.C.C. policy. Given his track record, he might be right. After Judge Greene refused to allow the Baby Bells into long distance, the F.C.C. last year struck down AT&T's classification as a "dominant" carrier. Mr. MacAvoy had warned that this would further stifle competition.
"We have done a fairly good job of proving that his thesis is basically worthless," Mr. Rosenblum said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul W. MacAvoy, author of a book about long-distance phone service, contends it is a cozy cartel with operating profit margins of 60 percent. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FAILURE OF ANTITRUST AND REGULATION (ETC) (BOOK)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE AT&T INC (95%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ADVERTISING LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); PUBLISHING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); 

PERSON: MACAVOY, PAUL W; PITSCH, PETER; LANDLER, MARK PAUL W MACAVOY (96%); PETER PITSCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



49 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Debates: One on One

BYLINE: Bob Herbert is on vacation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
American voters are entitled to see candidates with a "realistic" chance of being our next President face off in a series of television debates.
But the Clinton campaign is eager to include sure-loser Ross Perot. Clinton staff chief Leon Panetta, trying to build up Perot's small percentage and siphon off the fed-up-with-Clinton vote, said yesterday he "hoped and expected" Perot to be in the debates. 
 From his new seat in the Morris chair, Panetta knows that a three-man show would reduce the front-runner's risk of major Dole gains in a direct confrontation. The White House strategy: play it safe, sit on the lead.
Unfortunately for Dole, his people are hemming and hawing. Do they want Perot as a show-stealing buffer against the vaunted Clinton debating skills? No; they fear they might alienate protest voters by vigorously standing up for the two-party system.
Who will decide whether Clinton will get his wish to play the debate safe by bringing in Perot to attack Dole's tax-cut plan?
A committee of five academics chaired by Prof. Richard Neustadt of Harvard will make its recommendation next week to the bipartisan, 10-person Commission on Presidential Debates, headed by former party chairmen Paul Kirk of the Democrats and Frank Fahrenkopf of the G.O.P. The commission (which wants three 90-minute debates plus one Vice-Presidential, single moderator each, varied formats) has published its criteria for eligibility.
Its central, overriding, repeated requirement for participation in the debates: "the realistic chance of being elected." How is that determined?
One criterion is evidence of national organization. Perot has that, as does the 50-state Libertarian Party, with the Green Party starring Ralph Nader getting there. And Perot, thanks to his heavy personal spending in 1992 that bought his way into the debates then, is getting $30 million in taxpayer funds to spend this year. (No wonder five out of six taxpayers now refuse to check off the box on their returns that subsidizes politicians.)
Another is indicators of national public enthusiasm. Do major polls show Perot with a realistic chance of winning? No. Polls at this stage swing wildly, but not one indicator shows Perot in a tight race for second place. More important, the "turnout" in his fishy mail "primary" was less than 4 percent of those eligible -- as little as you get in any blind solicitation.
The third criterion is signs of national newsworthiness and competitiveness. The commission says this is determined by media editors and reporters, unemployed political consultants, talking heads at think tanks and -- last but one hopes not least -- "published views of prominent political commentators."
O.K., colleagues in the elite corps -- everybody into the pool!
Here is my view, published today in this prestigious journal and syndicated to the ends of the earth: Ross Perot has no realistic chance of being elected President of the United States in 1996.
Moreover, I know of not one solitary "prominent political commentator" who is willing to climb out on a limb to predict that this tax-funded billionaire, now limited to spending only half of what he spent in 1992, will be the next occupant of the Oval Office. Some of us like to be contrarian, but few of us drive over the brink.
If the issue were to be decided by "give the little debates a little pizazz," or "the debates themselves would give Perot a realistic chance," or "this is the only way we can get Clinton to agree to debate" -- then the academic panel and the commission would have cause to include a wild card.
But if "realistic chance of winning" is the operative standard of judgment of who is to debate, as the commission's charter says it is, then the candidates facing each other will be Bill Clinton and Bob Dole. No sideshow. No distraction.
We are not putting on a show; we are putting in place a President. If Mr. Perot, on his taxpayer-financed ego trip, wants to spend $30 million of our money staging television debates with Libertarian Harry Browne or the Green Party's Nader or any of the other 200 national candidates -- fine. The billionaire gets a free ride with our money this year, but he rates no free air time on top of that.
If Mr. Clinton's handlers are so certain he can demolish Mr. Dole in this arena, why do they insist on a third man in the ring?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DEBATING; TAXATION POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TAX LAW (66%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEROT, ROSS RALPH NADER (79%); LEON E PANETTA (72%); JOEL V STAFF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



50 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Tests the Limits

 BODY:
Whatever else Saddam Hussein may be up to in northern Iraq, he is probing to see if the United States and its allies are still prepared to enforce the tight limits they imposed on Iraqi military activity following the Persian Gulf war. Washington needs to respond firmly. President Clinton was right to move military forces to a higher readiness, but the first response should be economic, aimed at halting the plan to allow limited Iraqi oil sales.
On Saturday, Baghdad sent more than 30,000 troops, backed by armored columns, against Kurdish positions north of the 36th parallel. This is the first time Iraq has sent significant ground forces into the Kurdish safe-haven area carved out by American and other Western military forces in early 1991. Iraqi forces were apparently invited in by one of the two Kurdish parties fighting for supremacy in the region. They came despite strong American warnings to stay out. Baghdad may be counting on the pro-Iraqi sympathies of Turkey's new Islamic-led Government and the approach of the United States elections to complicate any American military response. 
 The Iraqi action is a clear challenge to the United Nations. The safe haven was established under a 1991 Security Council resolution, still in effect, that demands that Iraq cease all repression of its Kurdish citizens. The focus of international efforts in recent years has been to prevent Iraqi aircraft from attacking the Kurds. To that end, the United States and its allies have enforced a no-flight zone above the 36th parallel since 1991. But the resolution applies equally to ground attacks on the Kurds, although the United States has never explicitly barred them, and does not exclude responding to such attacks with appropriate military means.
America's main goals with regard to Iraq remain what they have been all along -- to deter a regime that has shown its contempt for international law and opinion from further acts of external aggression and to keep Saddam Hussein from rebuilding and rearming his military forces in ways that threaten international peace.
The Bush Administration only reluctantly took on the added goal of protecting Iraqi Kurds after millions of terrified Kurdish refugees entered Turkey and Iran, fleeing Iraqi military attacks. The United States rightly opposes the permanent partition of Iraq or the creation of an independent Kurdish state. That would be strongly resisted by most Arab countries along with Turkey and Iran, both of which have large Kurdish populations.
But so long as Saddam Hussein insists on blatantly defying the Security Council resolution and the safe haven, he must be answered. The first response should be suspension of the new United Nations plan intended to allow limited Iraqi oil sales to pay for humanitarian needs. Mr. Hussein cannot expect even a limited lifting of the oil embargo while engaged in aggressive military operations. The Security Council, which last month approved the sale of roughly $2 billion worth of Iraqi oil over the next six months, should immediately confirm Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's decision yesterday to suspend work on the plan.
Prudently, the Clinton Administration has begun preparations on a variety of fronts, including urgent consultations with allied governments and the repositioning of American forces, including the aircraft carriers Carl Vinson and the Enterprise, so that they can be ready to act as needed.
Baghdad is playing a provocative game in crossing a military line it has largely respected for the past five years. Washington should make clear that it is ready to respond forcefully, if needed. At that point, a minimally responsible Iraqi leader would back off, in order to spare the Iraqi people unnecessary further suffering. Regrettably, Mr. Hussein has failed that minimal test of responsibility in the past, and may do so again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (66%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



51 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: ON THE NET;
Reports of the death of the Internet have been greatly exaggerated.

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis 

 BODY:
THE Internet death watch is in full dirge. According to the latest morbidity reports, national networks like Netcom and America Online are crashing with increasing severity, packets of your precious bits are being scattered and lost throughout cyberspace, popular sites on the World Wide Web are being choked by callers and overall service is degrading as hordes of tourists pile onto the Internet gripping copies of "The Internet on $19.95 a Month."
Even Wired magazine, known for panegyrics to the new information order, is hanging digital crepe these days. "Over the coming six to 12 months, computer users around the planet are likely to experience the Internet equivalent of the Great Blackout, or at least frequent brownouts," the magazine reports in its current issue. 
 "These slowdowns will be more than a minor annoyance: they will challenge the future of the network." the article adds. "Businesses that depend on the Internet will find themselves cut off from their branch offices, their suppliers and their customers."
For the sake of argument let us apply the same logic to something else:
The American highway system is doomed. We will experience more frequent traffic jams and eventual systemic gridlock as the numbers of cars and trucks and motorcycles increase, along with a concurrent increase in the number of miles being driven. The highway infrastructure, designed long before current traffic demands could be envisioned, is decaying. Businesses that depend on trucks and cars will be cut off.
That's the perspective that makes sense to Joel M. Halpern, the principal engineer at Newbridge Networks Inc. of Herndon, Va. "There is traffic congestion on the Long Island Expressway, but it doesn't mean the imminent death of the highway system. That's the point with the Internet. Yes, there are problems, but no, they are not fatal."
Many smart people are saying the Internet is showing signs of imminent collapse. But many other smart people are saying the Internet will be able to grow and evolve to accommodate the increasing demands of data-rich messages, voice, video, graphics and even miniature programs. After all, the highway system and the phone system both managed to evolve.
"If we're going to worry about the problems the Internet has today, we need to look at the problems it has had in the past," said Dave Crocker, a principal at Brandenburg Consulting of Sunnyvale, Calif. "Public activity on the Internet on a large scale is only a couple of years old. I think we've lost perspective on what it's like for something new to start. We don't seem to have any tolerance for the development process.
"The Internet is growing, and it is growing up," Mr. Crocker added. "It has been doing that on a smaller scale for 25 years. During that time it has gone through five magnitudes of scaling. In order to reach every human on the planet, we only need two more."
In the case of the Internet, the driving force of the evolution is likely to be raw capitalism, rather than the Government edict that created the interstate highway system or the quasi-Government monopoly that built the phone system. Cutthroat competition is a wonderful stimulant to growth and efficiency, and competition is omnipresent on the Internet.
The technical solutions to the current problems of the Internet will be ironed out and instituted in the fullness of time. This is not meant to trivialize the challenges, because they are daunting -- how to fortify the major break-points where data are passed from one major network to another, how to improve the addressing schemes that get packets from Point A to Point B as efficiently as possible, and so on. But the real issues, ultimately, are economic.
The Nervous Netties seem unconvinced that free market economies will prove equal to the challenges. If the Internet truly is the valuable communications tool that many businesses and individuals now believe it to be, it is difficult to imagine that its most prominent users will put up with slow or unreliable service. Rather, it seems probable that people who must have fast, reliable Internet services will have to be willing to pay premium prices.
Those of us who clamor for all-you-can-eat Internet access for $19.95 a month are going to have to accept occasional busy signals, dropped packets, slow response times and long waits for technical support.
"You get what you pay for," said William L. Schrader, chairman and chief executive of PSINet Inc. in Herndon, Va., a company that is unapologetic about its relatively high rates.
Mr. Schrader's company spent some $150 million several years ago to embrace technologies called frame relay and asynchronous transfer mode that in effect let it guarantee fast and reliable service to business customers. PSINet asserts that it is the largest carrier of bits on the Internet, and that its data pipes are only at 15 percent capacity.
Others argue that it is good business to stress the system.
"The whole business of communications has always been to drive the system up to the point, not of overload, but at least of heavy loads," said David Farber, a professor of computer science at the University of Pennsylvania and a board member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "That's the most economic place to operate it.
"A year ago I was transferring files and telnetting," Professor Farber said, referring to two relatively simple Internet communications services. "Now I'm bringing video across the network, and service is surprisingly good. "
In fact, responses have actually been improving recently, according to one long-term study of Internet traffic patterns. The Internet Weather Report, created by Matrix Information and Directory Services Inc. of Austin, Tex., has been sending out electronic probes, or pings, to 4,000 Internet sites around the planet every four hours since 1993.
By tracking the time it takes for a ping to go from Austin to its target and for the echo to come back, Matrix is able to create detailed maps.
John S. Quarterman, president of Matrix, found that from January 1994 to January 1996, a period in which the Internet doubled in size each year, the average round-trip time improved 30 percent. "That means the quality of the Internet is actually getting better, not worse," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET & WWW (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); POWER FAILURES (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



52 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THIRD PARTY;
Perot Begins Campaign, on TV, With Charts

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

 BODY:
Ross Perot began his television campaign for the Presidency last night with a folksy "infomercial" that called for privatization of Social Security, reorganization of Medicare and an end to "one-sided trade deals."
Displaying his trademark charts, the Reform Party candidate assured viewers that their Social Security payments to Washington go "out the door to people who are retired faster than Domino's can deliver pizza." 
 A pay-as-you-go retirement system worked well in the 1950's when there were 16 people at work for every retiree, Mr. Perot lectured. But in 2020, in the middle of the wave of the baby-boomer retirements, two people will be working for every retiree, he predicted.
"People wonder how much cash is in the Social Security and Medicare trust fund," he said, with the hint of a sly smile. "There is no cash in these trust funds -- just a note from the Federal Government." Turning to a graph showing rocketing Medicare and Medicaid spending, Mr. Perot argued that both programs "must be re-designed and re-engineered now."
Comparing Medicare to "a 30-year-old car," he said: "It's hard to start in the morning."
"If you froze your business practices, no matter how successful your business is, you would be out of business within five years," said Mr. Perot, who was later described by a narrator as a man who "created a $12.4 billion company from the ground up."
Today's half-hour broadcast, titled "Just the Facts, No Free Candy," is expected to be one of series, paid largely by $29 million in Federal election campaign funds that Mr. Perot received in August.
In addition, Mr. Perot may participate in three debates that are to be held, starting Sept. 25.
In his commercial, Mr. Perot reserved some of his most withering disdain for the tax-cut proposals of both major-party candidates.
"We love free candy," he said, without mentioning his opponents by name. Tying the Republican tax-cut proposal to the "Voodoo Economics" that caused massive deficits during the Reagan years, Mr. Perot warned viewers: "It will put us in deep voodoo if we go through this again."
In pitching his message, Mr. Perot, a onetime I.B.M. salesman, frequently resorted to homespun, easy-to-digest images.
"Let's assume you stopped by to see me and say: 'Ross, I'm hopelessly in debt. I can't pay my bills. Could you give me some advice?' " Mr. Perot asked, referring to Government's budget deficit quandary.
"And I replied, 'Sure, I can give you some great advice: get your boss to cut your salary,' " he continued, referring to tax-cut proposals.
Turning to the nation's trade deficit, Mr. Perot predicted that the American trade deficit with China would jump to $50 billion this year, from $38 billion last year.
"To show you how one-sided our trade deals are, we're the only industrialized country in the world that has a trade deficit with China," said Mr. Perot, who campaigned actively against the North American Free Trade Agreement among Canada, United States and Mexico.
Comparing what he called American Presidents' propensity to sign "one-sided trade deals" with a friend's weakness for drink, Mr. Perot drawled: "You would put a cork in the bottle, and you would make your friend stop now."
The only way out, Mr. Perot said, is the election of a third-party candidate, himself.
"Neither party will admit that they've created these problems," said Mr. Perot. "The two parties have been bought and paid for by the special interests."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; TELEVISION MEDICARE (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (89%); INFOMERCIALS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX RELIEF (61%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; BROOKE, JAMES RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



53 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton Starts at the Beginning Once Again

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Sept. 1

 BODY:
President Clinton returned to Arkansas for a sentimental send-off rally for his re-election campaign tonight, addressing a cheering throng in front of the Old State House, where he first declared his candidacy for Governor in 1978, announced his intention to run for President in 1991 and claimed victory in 1992.
"Oh, I'm so glad to see you," Mr. Clinton told the crowd, which greeted him with chants of "four more years." When he set out for the White House nearly five years ago, Mr. Clinton recalled, he told a group gathered on the same spot, "All of you, in different ways, have brought me here today, to step beyond a life and a job I love to make a commitment to a larger cause." 
 He said that tonight, "I wanted to come here just as quick as I could get here as I begin the last campaign of my life." Mr. Clinton said he wanted to give his oldest supporters an accounting of the last four years "and ask you to rear back one more time and go with me through November and into the next four years."
His voice hoarse from a week of campaigning, Mr. Clinton begged the crowd for quiet, warning that he could not shout over them. But his wife, Hillary, gave a rueful indication of his mood when she told the audience: "I know he's going to stay up all night. I just know he is because he's so excited to be here."
A crowd of perhaps 3,000 had gathered under a threatening sky since midafternoon in front of the Old State House, a small white Greek Revival building on Markham Street in the heart of downtown Little Rock, to hear a lineup that included the folk singer Judy Collins. Mr. Clinton first heard Ms. Collins perform when he was a freshman at Georgetown University 32 years ago, and her recording of "Chelsea Morning" gave the Clintons their daughter's name. Tonight, Ms. Collins sang "Amazing Grace."
It was a last chance for Mr. Clinton to pause a moment before heading for Wisconsin for two Labor Day picnic rallies on Monday and the start of a fall campaign schedule that gives every indication of being as grueling as if he were trailing in the polls, rather than ahead by double digits.
Mr. Clinton lit into Bob Dole's proposed tax cut, saying it would threaten to explode the Federal deficit, raise interest rates, tighten credit and force cuts in spending for many important domestic programs.
"Would you go to the bank and borrow money to give yourself a tax cut?" he asked, and the partisan crowd hollered, "no!" in response. "Well, why would you hire somebody to do it for you?"
The President, Mrs. Clinton and their daughter arrived here from Memphis late Saturday after a two-day bus caravan through Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky and Tennessee with Vice President Al Gore and his wife, Tipper. They were staying with Mrs. Clinton's mother, Dorothy Rodham, in the Oakwood section.
From that house, aides said, Mr. Clinton placed telephone calls to about half a dozen world leaders this morning to discuss an allied response to military action by Saddam Hussein against Kurdish factions in northern Iraq. He also went to an early morning service at the Immanuel Baptist Church with his stepfather, Dick Kelley, before heading out to Rebsamen Golf Course for a round with Senator David Pryor, Judge Richard Arnold and Mr. Clinton's cousin Lisa Cornwall.
At the ninth hole, reporters asked Judge Arnold who was winning, and he replied without missing a beat, "The President always wins."
In an interview with The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette published this morning, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that he had taken a big risk in signing the welfare bill, which is opposed by many in his own party who argue that it will throw millions of children into poverty.
"This is a great adventure," the President said in the interview. "It may not work. But I thought it was worth the risk."
Mr. Clinton also suggested that he might try to find a way to divide his Presidential library between Little Rock and Fayetteville, home of the University of Arkansas, where he briefly taught law two decades ago.
"I want it to be something that's not just a shrine to what I have done in my life," he said. "I want it to be something that's a living, breathing institution that offers the young people of our state opportunities to learn and grow and do things and will be a magnet to bring people from all over the world to our state."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the spot in Little Rock, Ark., where President Clinton announced his intention to run for President in 1992, he asked a crowd of supporters yesterday to help him one more time, through his last campaign. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US LABOR DAY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TAX LAW (60%); GOVERNORS (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



54 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE STRATEGY;
Dole to Press 'Broad Message' On Economy, Drugs and Crime

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
As he starts the final leg of what is likely to be his last campaign, Bob Dole, the notoriously undisciplined campaigner, says he has figured it out: "We just need to keep pounding the message and pounding the message."
"I know the media gets tired of it, but we have to stay on message every place we go," the Republican Presidential nominee said at one point in an interview on Saturday at his campaign headquarters here. [Excerpts, page 11.] 
 Mr. Dole, who developed a reputation for kicking over the traces and charging off toward disaster in three failed runs for national office, says he has given up all that and will devote himself to basing his strategy to win the Presidency on drilling the voters with his tax cut plan and on getting tough on crime.
There will be little evidence, he said, of the agenda of social conservatives that he allowed to dominate pre-convention news coverage and to control the party platform that he is trying hard to leave behind. "I want to stick to the broad message, an economic message, a drug message, a crime message, appointment of judges," he said, adding only that he will have to make a special appeal to women.
To do so, Mr. Dole said, he will advocate the current ban on assault weapons, even though he voted against the 1994 bill that included it. He also said he would talk about assault weapons, "particularly in New England," where voters are generally more liberal and more supportive of gun control measures.
His anti-drug message, which he now repeats everywhere, is also tailored for women. "In Ventura, I talked to a lot of people, particularly women," he said of a recent campaign stop in California. "It's a big issue with them."
As Mr. Dole mapped out his plans for the 66 days remaining before Election Day, he seemed relaxed, even introspective, speaking about his view of the office he seeks, about the difficulty of campaigning with one arm because of his war wound, about his awkward oratory and his relationship with the press and about how much he relies on Jack Kemp, the Vice-Presidential nominee, to fill in another voter gap: minorities.
"Jack Kemp is certainly reaching out to black communities," Mr. Dole said. "I've tried to over the years. Hispanics. So I'm very optimistic. I feel good. I'm confident. Sleep good. Work hard. I mean I like to work. I like to campaign. I like people."
Mr. Dole shrugged off the suggestion that recent economic indicators, including strong consumer confidence, might undermine the urgency of his message.
"If the growth rate was 3.5 percent we'd be out of business," he said. "But it's not. It's 2.4 percent and it's gone down." Earlier, he asserted, "We've got the worst recovery in this century."
The former Senate majority leader, who resigned in June to concentrate on his Presidential campaign, has been involved for decades in foreign affairs and trade issues, and he said he would not be able to resist talking about them, at least a little.
But as for social issues like abortion and school prayer, on which the Republican right forced the party to take very conservative positions in its platform, Mr. Dole seemed determined to leave those issues right there -- in the party platform. He has already disavowed the part of the platform that would deny citizenship to children born in the United States of illegal immigrants.
He repeated his personal opposition to abortion, but said, "I also believe if we're going to be an inclusive party, as we are, that's what it means: you can be pro-life or pro-choice and still be a good Republican."
On Monday, under the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, the 73-year-old Republican candidate and his running mate, Mr. Kemp, will officially open their drive to the Nov. 5 election. Quoting former Vice President Dan Quayle, Mr. Dole asserted, "We're tanned, scanned and ready."
Mr. Dole goes into the fall campaign trailing President Clinton by 20 percentage points in two new national surveys. While history shows that such a deficit is virtually impossible to overcome this late in the race, Mr. Dole suggested that he would be the exception to the rule.
"The gap is sort of meaningless," he said, before giving himself a reality check. "Obviously, if I were 20 points ahead I might not say that."
Mr. Dole said that he would be helped by a fresh infusion of cash, giving him parity with the Clinton campaign; that he now has a running mate to help him in making his case, and that he can rely on bedrock support from certain groups who do not normally speak out -- people "in uniform," those in rural areas, and people with disabilities.
"I was just reading a letter from a young lady, Lisa someone, whose boyfriend is at the Naval Academy and was in a car wreck and has about the same kind of injury I have," Mr. Dole said, referring to the World War II wounds that left him unable to use his right arm. "So there's a lot of that out there. I think it's quiet. They don't show up a lot."
He also said his confidence had increased since the Republican National Convention in San Diego last month. He has attracted larger and more enthusiastic crowds, which in turn has added force to his speaking style and prompted him to spend considerable time shaking hands and signing autographs.
Because of his injury, he slowly scrawls his name with his left hand, a process that he said is not so difficult because his name is short. "If my name were Nelson A. Rockefeller, I don't think I could make it," he said with a laugh.
Mr. Dole, who has had bouts of verbal undiscipline throughout his career, said he was determined to stay "on message," and that he had "learned to be a little more disciplined" with the press.
The centerpiece of his campaign is economic. But he acknowledged that while he believes his plan to cut taxes and balance the budget at the same time is "a winner," it has yet to sink in with a majority of voters.
"It's a winner where it has caught on," he said. "We have a lot of work to do. That's part of the ad campaign. Our first spot was on the economic package. There will be another spot next week on the economic package."
In making the case for his candidacy, Mr. Dole said, his chief task is to demonstrate credibility. "We have to be able to persuade people that it's do-able, whatever it is," he said, "whether it's economic, whether it's drugs, whether it's crime, whether it's appointment of judges, whether it's regulatory reform."
He added: "Because I do think people are a bit -- sometimes, with justification -- there is some cynicism and skepticism out there. It's healthy in some ways. It will make you produce. You gotta produce. You gotta tell me the truth."
Although he has devoted his career to reducing the Federal deficit, he expressed confidence that he could both balance the budget and cut taxes and still "not leave anyone behind," as he vows repeatedly on the campaign trail.
He said voters should believe him because of his track record in support of such programs as food stamps and financial support for women, infants and children. The campaign plans to issue a 160-page book shortly called "Trusting the People," in which Mr. Dole said he gets specific about his reductions in projected Government spending.
In the interview, he said he would end what he called "corporate welfare" as a way of saving money, and said savings could be found by ferreting out fraud and abuse throughout the Government. But he also has backed off his earlier pledges to shut down the Energy, Education and Commerce departments, saying that he plans to keep "the good components" of each.
For example, he said he would transfer the national defense laboratories from the Energy Department to the Defense Department, a controversial move opposed by some, including the man he called his "best friend," Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, where two of the labs are based.
The campaign insists that Mr. Dole will not have to cut Government programs, but merely reduce the rate of projected growth. Under Mr. Clinton's plan, according to Donald Rumsfeld, Mr. Dole's national chairman, spending would increase about 20 percent over the next six years; under Mr. Dole's plan, it would go up about 12 percent.
But the Concord Coalition, which is dedicated to a balanced budget, says the cuts will be more severe -- up to 40 percent in the year 2002 in everything from national parks and the F.B.I. to highways and schools.
Mr. Dole also said the bridge metaphor he introduced in his acceptance speech last month would make a regular reappearance. He said in that speech that he wanted to be a bridge to a more tranquil time. The President used that metaphor in his own acceptance speech and turned it into a campaign theme, saying Mr. Dole wanted to be a bridge to the past while he, Mr. Clinton, wanted to be a bridge to the future.
Mr. Dole said that after Mr. Clinton spoke, he checked his own speech and found that he had not mentioned the past per se, adding that he meant he wanted to be a bridge to a more tranquil time in the future.
Saying he would keep the metaphor alive, he described his opponent's bridges as "toll bridges," and added, "You gotta pay."
Asked to define the job he seeks, Mr. Dole inventoried some of his would-be predecessors.
"I've watched all these different Presidents, starting with Eisenhower, who was leaving when I was coming," Mr. Dole said. "I've watched different Presidents. I didn't have the privilege of knowing President Kennedy -- I met him a couple of times but didn't know him personally. He certainly had his strengths in communication.
"Johnson had his strengths in critical times -- Vietnam, putting the Great Society together, even though I didn't agree with it, he moved it. Nixon, Ford, Bush, Carter. Carter had certain strengths. I think he's actually stronger now as an ex-President. He's done a magnificent job in many areas. So you try to learn from all those people. Hope I have. Think I have."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Dole (Associated Press) (pg. 1); At a meeting of the National Guard Association in Washington yesterday, Bob Dole, the Republican Presidential candidate, said he would enlist guardsmen in the war against drugs. (Reuters) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; WOMEN; TAXATION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ABORTION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GUN CONTROL (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); WOMEN (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); TAX LAW (69%); JUDGES (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (62%); RACE & RACISM (60%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK F; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q BOB DOLE (95%); JACK KEMP (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



55 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE CONSULTANT;
Ex-Aide to Clinton Rejects Defeat

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
When he turned his back on his Republican clients and went to work as a strategist for a wounded Bill Clinton, Dick Morris liked to say that he and his President would share the same fate in the 1996 election: "If we're both good enough, we'll work our way out of it. If not, we're both sunk."
What he never imagined is what happened last week: that President Clinton would go soaring out of the Democratic convention with a commanding lead in the polls while his political guru would have to flee in disgrace, resigning in the face of a tabloid report about a relationship with a $200-an-hour call girl. 
 But the irrepressible Mr. Morris has already started to calculate the scope and depth of his own problems, almost with a pollster's detachment. He said in a telephone interview on Saturday, while juggling several phones at once, that he had stepped out of the race for good.
Asked whether he would be offering strategy tips informally to Mr. Clinton, he said: "No. Just no." But Mr. Morris also said that rather than remain sidelined, he would be an "active commentator on this election as it unfolds."
It seemed as if Mr. Morris had become his own client, trying to mastermind his own resurrection, even as others proclaim him finished.
"I emphatically reject the notion that I died," he said from his Connecticut home.
Mr. Morris, 48, has steadfastly refused to discuss the tabloid report.
"I feel that over time the American people will be more interested in hearing what I have to say about politics than what others have to say about sex," he declared, fashioning for himself a version of the "issues not insults" theme he helped frame for Mr. Clinton to fend off Republican attacks on the President's character.
After the public humiliation he has just undergone, his ambitions may seem delusional. For many, Mr. Morris has become the walking symbol of the cynicism of politics as the man who shaped Mr. Clinton's family values agenda. Certainly he faces a struggle as daunting as his successful effort to raise Mr. Clinton from the depths of 1994 when the Republicans won control of Congress to his current commanding lead in public opinion polls.
But whatever he does from here, Mr. Morris's rise to become the right-hand man of the President and his spectacular fall marked another strange chapter in the long political partnership between the two men. It was also an extraordinary episode in the life of a consultant who has never played by any of the rules that prevail in even his own jaded profession.
There are some political consultants who say that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Morris virtually invented each other, rising from their first political campaign together in 1978 to become the nation's leader and the leader's master consultant. They were an odd couple, the Democratic star of Arkansas politics and the New Yorker fresh from the Democratic wars of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, but they shared a consuming passion for political strategy.
When Mr. Clinton was elected Governor, he dismissed Mr. Morris. Two years later he lost in a bid for re-election, having tried to push through an activist agenda far ahead of public opinion. His wife, Hillary put in an emergency call to Mr. Morris.
In a race that foreshadowed the role Mr. Morris would play for the damaged President more than a decade later, the New Yorker helped the young Arkansas Democrat come back to victory in 1982 by apologizing for his first term and hewing to the political center.
From then on Mr. Morris was like a talisman for Mr. Clinton. Mr. Morris has called the President "the essence of my career." Other White House aides have fretted that the strategist represents, as one put it, "Clinton's dark side." Mr. Clinton earlier this year called Mr. Morris "brilliant, tactically and strategically." The President added, "He knows how I think and he knows what I will do and what I won't do."
Across the 1980's Mr. Morris began to drift more and more toward Republican candidates, representing moderates like former Senator Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire and conservatives like Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina.
It was in this period that Mr. Morris began to unnerve Democrats and Republicans alike, with a devotion to tactics and the game that seemed to be unmoored to ideology or party.
Republicans remember him arguing that there was no inconsistency in representing both Howard M. Metzenbaum, the liberal former Democratic Senator from Ohio, and Paula Hawkins, the conservative former Republican Senator from Florida. He drove fellow Republican campaign operatives crazy, showily calling from Mr. Clinton's Governor's residence to Republican campaigns he was also running. Former colleagues said he was oblivious to the consternation he caused.
"Dick has always had this disconnect between being extraordinarily insightful on the one hand and extraordinarily obscure when it comes to seeing how his actions affect others," said Stuart Stevens, a media consultant to the Dole campaign.
In the autumn of 1994, as he was working for Republican candidates, Mr. Morris kept talking to President Clinton as well. Painting a far more dire picture of what was to come in the 1994 elections than had Mr. Clinton's own political team, he warned the President that a rout was on its way and that he should stay as far from the Congressional campaigns as possible so they would not be seen as a referendum on his Presidency.
Mr. Clinton, to the contrary, campaigned hard. And when the Republicans gained control of Congress for the first time in half a century, many political professionals viewed Mr. Clinton as fatally wounded.
As he had in 1982, Mr. Clinton called Mr. Morris to his side after the debacle of the 1994 election. Irritated Republicans say -- and Mr. Morris denies -- that only months earlier Mr. Morris had been openly ridiculing Mr. Clinton's conduct and policy stands and helping Republicans play off the President's unpopularity in their own campaigns.
At first, Mr. Clinton's new consultant remained a mystery to the White House staff. Mr. Clinton referred to him only by a code name. But his handiwork became evident by the spring of 1995 when Mr. Clinton began throwing away speeches prepared by White House aides and substituting new ones.
Then, bucking the unanimous advice of his aides, Mr. Clinton suddenly decided that June to embrace the Republicans' call for a balanced budget, accepting Mr. Morris's contention that he should undercut Republican campaign themes by co-opting many of their stands.
By then Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, had threatened to quit unless Mr. Clinton placed Mr. Morris inside a formal White House structure. Officials say Mr. Panetta also won an assurance that no Morris idea could be carried out unless Mr. Panetta or his deputy Harold M. Ickes had approved of it.
Aides say Mr. Morris and Mr. Ickes, longtime foes from New York politics, often clashed, with Mr. Morris announcing that the President had authorized a strategy, and Mr. Ickes stalking into the Oval Office to check -- sometimes finding that the President had not done so.
Mr. Morris did not win every battle. Throughout the autumn of 1995, he pushed for Mr. Clinton to make a budget deal with the Republicans. Mr. Clinton never made such an agreement, and other aides argued that it would have split the Democratic Party. Mr. Clinton's economic team recently fought back Mr. Morris's call for a cut in the capital gains tax to compete with Bob Dole's tax cut proposal. But Mr. Morris was indefatigable and had the President's ear.
Even Mr. Morris's White House enemies credit him with much of Mr. Clinton's political recovery. They say he helped make Mr. Clinton more focused and taught him to speak more about social values, stepping into a realm long the preserve of the Republicans.
Children's issues are not usually considered Presidential matters. But Mr. Morris understood that school uniforms, curfews for teen-agers and a crusade against smoking by them could appeal to the swing voters in this campaign: suburban parents.
At the top of his profession, Mr. Morris risked it all. To many, his actions are inexplicable. A man who would not allow a reporter to tape-record him in the rare instance in which he granted an interview was so incautious that he opened himself up to the revelations in the tabloid, Star.
The tabloid -- which paid for the report -- said Mr. Morris had met a prostitute, Sherry Rowlands, each week in his suite at the Jefferson Hotel in Washington, had discussed White House business with her in private moments and referred to the President and his wife in disparaging terms. It also photographed Mr. Morris and Ms. Rowlands together on the balcony of his hotel room.
Some political consultants say simply that hubris is a hallmark of their trade. Mr. Morris's wife, Eileen McGann, while declining to discuss the Star report, said in an interview on Saturday: "I think Dick is a contrast of amazing brilliance on the one hand and incredible naivety on the other. He has always been very trusting of people and institutions he has no reason to be."
Ms. McGann said she was standing by her husband. "I want to help him get through this," she said. "We've had more than a 20-year relationship and I'm not going to judge him by one day or one story or one year."
Appearing on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" Mr. Panetta said today that a review of Mr. Morris's campaign receipts had found "no violation of the guidelines that we were working with." Mr. Panetta also said Mr. Morris would play no formal role in the campaign.
But others were less certain about an end to the long political collaboration between Mr. Morris and Mr. Clinton. Vice President Al Gore was asked by CNN on Saturday whether Mr. Morris would have any role at all in the campaign, and whether Mr. Gore or the President would be talking to Mr. Morris before November.
"I don't know the answer to that question," Mr. Gore said. "He has resigned from the campaign and does not have a formal role in the campaign, and I think that's the answer to the question."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dick Morris said he would not offer any advice to President Clinton's re-election campaign. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ETHICS (67%); FAMILY (60%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, DICK; MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



56 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: For First Time, U.S. Court to Weigh Claim of Rights Abuses in Foreign Land

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., Sept. 1

 BODY:
When the soldiers finished with Jose Siderman, having tortured him for most of the first week after the military seized power in Argentina in the spring of 1976, they dumped him in the night by a firing range on the outskirts of his hometown.
Mr. Siderman, a prosperous Jewish businessman who was then 65 years old, found a typewritten note stuffed into a pocket of his bloody pants. It said he would be killed if he did not leave the small, northern province where he had built his businesses and raised his family. 
 Even after the Sidermans fled to California, however, their nightmare did not end. Their properties were confiscated by the military junta and divvied up by the Government. The generals charged Mr. Siderman with fraud and issued international warrants for his arrest. While in Italy on vacation in 1981, Mr. Siderman suddenly found himself thrown into jail and then held under house arrest for seven months before Argentina's request for extradition was denied.
"Do you know the 'Inferno,' of Dante Alighieri?" asked Mr. Siderman, now a frail man of 85 with a neat white mustache and limpid blue eyes. "That is what I lived."
But in their zealous pursuit of Mr. Siderman, the men who ruled Argentina made the mistake of carrying their claims to the Los Angeles County Superior Court. And 15 years later, that legal indiscretion, has opened an important breach in what has long been a bulwark of immunity for foreign regimes in American courts.
After an arduous jurisdictional struggle and two trips to the United States Supreme Court, Argentina is to go on trial on Tuesday before a Federal judge in Los Angeles to answer for the treatment of Mr. Siderman and his family. The case, in which the Sidermans are seeking money for their losses and suffering, will be the first in which a foreign government has been tried in the United States for human rights abuses committed on its own soil.
"The courts have been struggling for years to balance demands for universal justice with the time-honored prerogatives of sovereign immunity," said Diane F. Orentlicher, a professor of international law at American University in Washington. "Up until now, plaintiffs have really run up against the proverbial brick wall. This case shows that the barrier is not impenetrable."
The trial is the latest case of human-rights abuses from other countries to be considered by United States courts in recent years. But all previous cases involved accusations against individuals or crimes committed on American soil.
A retired Paraguayan police inspector, a former Guatemalan defense minister and a military ruler of Haiti, among others, have been found guilty of torture and other abuses and ordered to pay large sums in civil damages. But in almost every case, the courts have been powerless to enforce their judgments because the defendants either left the country or declared themselves insolvent.
Should the Sidermans win, legal experts say, their chances for redress may be far better. The Argentine Government itself would be liable, and there are precedents for the kind of political pressure it would likely face: After judgments against the Government of Chile and the estate of former President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines in cases involving the murders of political opponents in the United States, both agreed to pay large settlements to the families of the victims.
In court documents, the Sidermans estimate the value of the properties they owned in Argentina at the time of the coup at $26.4 million. Yet to the old man who has made his way so stubbornly through the maze of legal obstacles, the day in court will itself be part of his vindication.
"You know what it is?" Mr. Siderman said, speaking in Spanish in an interview near the apartment in Santa Monica where he and his wife have lived almost since coming to the United States. "I always had the dream that I could make things right, make them right for my family. I will not have time now. But I want the world to know what they did to an Argentine family."
Mr. Siderman apologized for not inviting a reporter to his home for the conversation; it would be too hard on his wife, Lea, he said. He later agreed to have his photograph taken at the apartment, but Mrs. Siderman remained behind closed doors in another room.
"I cannot speak of these things in front of her," Mr. Siderman said.
More than a decade after the return of civilian rule in Buenos Aires, the Argentine Government has not disputed that Mr. Siderman was tortured and dispossessed. It has challenged some of his financial claims, saying his businesses were properly sold to pay debts.
More important, though, it has fought the case by focusing on the law that has long shielded foreign governments in the United States.
It has argued in briefs that American judges had overstepped their jurisdiction in ruling that Argentina had waived its protection under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, in part, when it chased Mr. Siderman into the courts in Los Angeles.
For months, the Argentine Government rejected pleas to settle the matter out of court. But on Friday night, the Solicitor General of the Treasury, Rodolfo A. Diaz, the chief legal adviser to Mr. Menem, sent a statement to a reporter saying the President had just authorized him to explore "the possibility of reaching an amicable settlement."
A lawyer for the Sidermans, Michael L. Bayzler, said this weekend that he had got no such offer and thought the statement was an attempt to postpone the trial. "We will show up in the judge's courtroom on Tuesday morning," Bayzler said.
For Mr. Siderman, that would be the beginning of the end of a journey he began in 1941, when he went to Tucuman, Argentina's smallest and poorest province, for inexpensive wood for the flooring business his father, a Ukrainian immigrant, had founded at the turn of the century.
The family purchased 127,000 acres of undeveloped land, and Mr. Siderman moved to the provincial capital of San Miguel de Tucuman. He built a real estate and construction business that was as visible as it was successful, and felt he had earned his place in the province. His son, Carlos, 45, recalled seeing the family's position differently.
"Once I was sitting in a cafe, and he was walking down the street outside and some men sitting there said, 'Look at Siderman, that Jew, he's got so much money.' My father didn't hear that kind of thing. He was about work."
Early in December, 1974, Mr. Siderman's wealth drew attention from a quarter he had never expected. He was kidnapped by one of the leftist guerrilla groups that had begun to plunge the Government of Juan Domingo Peron into turmoil. He was released after 23 days when his family paid $1 million ransom.
Mr. Siderman had barely recovered when Mr. Peron's calamitous widow, Maria Estela, known as Isabel, was overthrown by the armed forces on March 24, 1976. That night, the Sidermans were awakened by the hammering of a dozen soldiers at their door.
"Jew son of a whore!" Mr. Siderman remembers them screaming. "Open the door!"
Mrs. Siderman escaped by breaking a window and crawling over the broken glass. Mr. Siderman was taken to a police command post. There, he was tortured with electric shocks, lit cigarettes and the screams of other victims. Three of his ribs were broken and one of his testicles was crushed.
The dictatorship's first administrator in Tucuman, Gen. Antonio Domingo Bussi, became especially well-known for his administrative efficiency, his brutality and his anti-Semitism. The national commission that investigated the military's abuses after the return of civilian rule said General Bussi had virtually wiped out the province's civilian leadership, "disappearing" at least 387 people. His security forces, the commission said, resembled nothing so much as those of the Nazis.
Within days of the Sidermans' flight from Argentina to the United States, where one of their two daughters lived, the generals' regime issued a warrant for Mr. Siderman's arrest, charging that he had fraudulently obtained his passport. An Argentine judge placed the Sidermans' company in receivership.
After his arrest and release in Italy, he returned home to find a new lawsuit filed by the Tucuman government and forwarded to him through the Los Angeles County courts. This time he was accused of fraudulently changing the deed to his family's land from 127 acres to 127,000.
All of the charges were dropped after the military gave up power in disgrace in 1983. But by then, Mr. Siderman's cause had been joined by Mr. Bayzler and lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.
In 1984, with Argentina refusing to even answer the family's claims in American courts, a Federal judge awarded the Sidermans, who had been living mostly on savings, $2.7 million in damages. But that judgment was vacated at the urging of the State Department, which argued that the new civilian government should be allowed to make amends.
Mr. Siderman returned alone to Argentina to file his case. He was unable to suppress the urge to confront his tormentor.
"I was terribly afraid," he recalled. "I just listened to what he said: 'Oh, yes, Siderman. Your case is in the courts.' "
"I did not think to demand what was mine," Mr. Siderman said sadly, "to tell him he had ruined my life. I listened, and I thanked him for seeing me."
Three years later, the Argentine Government returned Mr. Siderman's company; most of its assets were either gone or under lien. In 1989, the claims that Mr. Siderman brought in the Argentine courts were dismissed on the ground that the statute of limitations had expired.
Last year, with the Tucuman economy in a shambles, Antonio Domingo Bussi, a law-and-order candidate, was elected governor.
"The things that happened there have no name," said Mr. Siderman, who took American citizenship in 1984. "But somehow, people forget."
Mr. Siderman shook his head slowly for a moment as he tried to fathom it. But then he seemed to remember.
Yes, his case is in the courts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Tuesday, a Federal judge in Los Angeles will begin Jose Siderman's case against Argentina. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (95%); PARAGUAY (79%); HAITI (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (95%); PARAGUAY (79%); HAITI (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM ARMED FORCES (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); TORTURE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); DAMAGES (74%); ARREST WARRANTS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); IMMUNITY (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ARRESTS (74%); HOUSE ARREST (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); VERDICTS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); JURISDICTION (70%); JUDGES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: SIDERMAN, JOSE; GOLDEN, TIM JOSE SIDERMAN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



57 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Kemp, in Montana, Urges End to Estate Taxes

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: GREAT FALLS, Mont., Sept. 1

 BODY:
Having told poor people in the inner city, rich people in suburbia and workers in a factory that tax cuts would greatly improve their lives, Jack Kemp made the same pledge tonight to wheat and barley farmers here on the windswept plains.
Mr. Kemp, the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate, promised them that the harvest of a vote for Bob Dole for President would be more money in their pockets and less government on their backs. He focused in particular on Mr. Dole's proposed cut in estate, or inheritance, taxes. 
 Mr. Dole has not been specific about the degree of those cuts, but has said he wants small-business owners and farmers to be able to pass their ventures along to children without fear that the taxes incurred by doing so will outstrip the profits and cash reserves of the operations.
"He wants you to be able to leave your farm to your children without having the Government confiscate it in Washington, D.C.," Mr. Kemp said at the rally here today.
Then, he seemingly raced a step or two ahead of his running mate. "We ought to eliminate the estate tax," Mr. Kemp said. "It doesn't even raise any revenue."
Aides to the Dole-Kemp campaign said that although Mr. Dole had not spent much time discussing this, it was part of the second phase of his tax plan, which would rewrite the tax code. The first phase would cut personal income and other taxes.
The rally here was held at a private farm, beside a red barn, in a part of central Montana that could not have been more evocative of American themes. There were amber waves of grain in the foreground, majestic mountains in the background and a spacious sky that seemed to stretch into infinity. Most of the roughly 250 members of the audience sat on bales of hay.
But Mr. Kemp, spoke in digressive, serpentine sentences that were frequently at odds with the populist tone he was trying to strike. His comments were frequently referred to complicated arithmetic and erudite economic policy, and he seemed even less controlled than usual.
At one point, talking about the raising of taxes under the Clinton Administration, he even took issue with the way Mr. Dole has frequently characterized that increase.
"They raised taxes -- the biggest increase, I guess, of this century," Mr. Kemp said. "Bob calls it the biggest in the history of the world. I don't know that I have such a historical perspective as Bob Dole. But it was an awfully big tax increase."
Mr. Kemp's visit to Montana followed a midafternoon stop near San Francisco, where he presided over the coin toss in the season opener of the San Francisco 49ers, who faced off against the New Orleans Saints.
Mr. Kemp, a former professional quarterback, took the field in 3Com Park to a mixed chorus of cheers and boos, a fairly common reception for a politician. After the coin toss, which was won by the 49ers, Mr. Kemp stayed at the stadium for one quarter of the game, watching it with the team's owner, Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., in his sky box.
Back on Mr. Kemp's campaign plane, football gave way to an orange bowl between reporters and Mr. Kemp. It is a campaign-trail tradition, popularized by Nancy Reagan's participation.
When a candidate's plane takes off, a member of the news media in the back rolls an orange up the incline of the aisle to the front of the cabin, where the candidate and his or her entourage sit. If the orange reaches its destination without disintegrating, someone rolls it back.
On the plane carrying Mr. Kemp, that tradition has become a smart-aleck form of communication, with Mr. Kemp and reporters scrawling quips on the rind.
On Saturday, as the plane flew to Phoenix, reporters chided Mr. Kemp for his customary tardiness, writing, "You're late."
He replied: "I'm on Clinton time."
Later that day, as the plane left Phoenix, reporters scribbled, "Some place cooler, please."
Referring to the independent Presidential candidate Ralph Nader and his environmentally centered campaign, Mr. Kemp replied: "I'm trading you to the Nader plane. It's cool and green."
The fruit-conveyed conversation rolled on today. As the plane headed toward San Francisco, reporters teased Mr. Kemp by writing, "Steve Young throws longer," a reference to the 49ers quarterback.
Mr. Kemp, with a nod to one of his less challenged distinctions, answered, "But I can talk longer!"
Reporters wrote later, "Kemp 15, Saints 0." (The 49ers won, 27-11.)
Mr. Kemp responded, "You ain't seen nothing yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp with Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., the owner of the San Francisco 49ers, yesterday before the team's home opener, at which Mr. Kemp presided over the coin toss. Football fans greeted him with cheers and boos. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (59%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA; UNITED STATES (95%); MONTANA, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ESTATE TAX (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MISC GRAIN FARMING (77%); SPORTS FANS (74%); ATHLETES (66%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (61%); SPORTS (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F; BRUNI, FRANK HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



58 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2253 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Excerpts From Interview With Dole on His Presidential Campaign Agenda

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an interview with Bob Dole on Saturday in his campaign headquarters in Washington: 

Q. We are 66 days out from the election, and the newest polls are now back at a gap of 20 points. What can you tell us about how you will close the gap?
 
Mr. DOLE. We think it's about 10. . . . The difference now is we can match them dollar for dollar. The last 90 days we were lucky to be alive. We were outspent big time. All we could do were generic ads. We couldn't say, 'Bob Dole for President.' . . . We've gone through $3 million in television. They probably have a $5 million advantage, but we each have about the same amount. . . .
 
Q. Are you anxious to get going on the kickoff Monday?
 
A. I feel good about the crowds, I feel good about the enthusiasm, I think it's all changed since the convention. Or not all changed, but a big change. . . .
 
Q. What is the larger strategy to close the gap?
 
A. My view is, the gap is sort of meaningless. Obviously, if we were 20 points ahead, I might not say that. . . . I now have a running mate. I have someone who can share the load a bit. . . .
We'll continue to talk about the economic package, drugs, balanced budget, a balanced-budget amendment, opportunity scholarships, education. . . . I think we've got an agenda; we'll add to it as we go along. There'll be some foreign policy, some more trade, other things as they come up. . . .
We have to stay on message. I know the media gets tired of it, but we have to stay on message every place we go. Different audience. Surveys reflect what people know about the economic package -- it's a winner where it has caught on. We have a lot of work to do. That's part of the ad campaign. Our first spot was on the economic package. There will be another spot next week on the economic package. It's all positive. . . .
Plus I've got a base in rural areas. Obviously we're going to have strong support from veterans, veterans groups, people in uniform. People with disabilities. I met a lady yesterday, two of her sons with cerebral palsy were there. I was just reading a letter from a young lady, Lisa someone, whose boyfriend is at the Naval Academy and was in a car wreck and has about the same kind of injury I have -- so there's a lot of that out there. I think it's quiet. They don't show up a lot.
We'll talk about the party of inclusion. . . . We're going to compete for every vote. . . . Jack Kemp is certainly reaching out to black communities. I've tried to over the years. Hispanics. So I'm very optimistic. I feel good. I'm confident. Sleep good. Work hard. I mean, I like to work. I like to campaign. I like people. I was out there the other night with flashlights. . . .
 
Q. What draws you to those crowds? Do you think that because they've been waiting so long, you owe it to them?
 
A. You have to say, was this a good use of my time? . . . There's always been that feeling that people are there and you ought to say hello to them. It's impossible to sign every -- even with a short name. And they don't accept the presigned ones. . . . If my name were Nelson A. Rockefeller, I don't think I could make it. . . .
 
Q. President Clinton is talking about tax cuts, a $500 credit, the $1,500 to go to community college. Do you worry that he may have neutralized the tax issue by putting out his own cuts?
 
A. That's a $40 billion program, if you run it out a few years. . . . I don't think so because I frankly don't think he has a lot of credibility when he says he's for tax cuts. He said that the last time. In fact, I've been asking audiences, "All you who've received a tax cut should vote for Clinton." So I think it's going to be a hard sell for them.
 
Q. That's what they say about your plan, that it doesn't add up.
 
A. I didn't expect them to endorse it. But I do think he has a track record of the '93 tax increase, and he even said himself in Texas that he raised taxes too much.
My view is that we've got a good package, an enthusiastic running mate. He's certainly a salesman when it comes to economics. We've got a lot of other issues we're going to be talking about, whether it's defense, whether it's foreign policy, but I think the issues that affect people are pocketbook issues. I just sort of detect, people I talk to along the rope line and other places -- the undecided voter out there, or people looking for a reason to vote for somebody other than Bill Clinton, is looking for something they can believe. We just need to keep pounding the message and pounding the message and making it credible. . . .
 
Q. You've lately been emphasizing compassion, that you are committed to not leaving anybody behind. How can you make that commitment at this stage before you've been specific about where you want to make your cuts and how you're going to balance the budget?
 
A. I think we've been pretty specific. In fact, there will be a book coming out, "Trusting the People." It will talk about our economic program. . . .
I've worked for a lot of those programs with the likes of George McGovern and Hubert Humphrey and Republicans, of course. Food stamps, WIC programs, school lunch, Medicaid, I worked on the hospice bill -- it was Dole-Ribicoff, Ribicoff-Dole, whoever had the majority, Abe Ribicoff, good guy. First bill for the homeless that passed the Senate was a Dole-Byrd bill, Robert Byrd; it became the McKinney bill later, named after him. So I know that there are certain vulnerable groups out there that you can't leave behind. . . .
 
Q. But if you're still promising to balance the budget and deliver these tax cuts, something has to give.
 
A. No, not really. . . . There's still some corporate welfare out there that we can tap in to. You can, the Department of Energy, you can transfer the lab portion to Defense, eliminate some of the rest of it. Same with Education. . . .
 
Q. Will tax cuts be the main thing you talk about, or will you also bring in income and wages and jobs? Is there more on the economic plan?
 
A. We've got the balanced-budget amendment, the balanced budget by itself, the tax components, the education components, the education and training components, and regulatory reform and litigation reform. We need to add trade; we just didn't have time. . . . We'll do more on crime with the governors.
 
Q. How do assault weapons play into that? Will you emphasize that you are not trying to overturn the ban?
 
A. Don't try to repeal it. Just leave it alone. . . .
 
Q. Will this be a component of your crime package?
 
A. Right. We're going to stress that a lot, particularly up in New England. It's pretty hard to answer the question, who would want one of these street sweepers, for example? What, you want to go rabbit hunting with a street sweeper? And I know the N.R.A. is less than excited about that, but that's the way it is. . . .
 
Q. On drugs: As you know, some Republicans feel you're getting off the economic message when you devote so much time to drugs. What does the drug issue do for you politically? Does it help with women, with certain target groups?
 
A. You have to have more than one message. I think you can have too many messages. But we have to address the concerns of women, families, children. In Ventura, I talked to a lot of people, particularly women. It's a big issue with them. . . .
 
Q. Are you going to have a social agenda, or are you pretty much going to stick to economics? . . .
 
A. I think I expressed my views before the convention. I'm pro-life; I'm not going to change my mind. There are some people who would like me to be out there every day talking about it. My view is, my record is there. It's clear. I haven't tried to have it both ways. I'm not going to try to have it both ways. But I also believe if we're going to be an inclusive party, as we are, that's what it means: you can be pro-life or pro-choice and still be a good Republican. . . .
 
Q. Will immigration and affirmative action be----
 
A. We laid it out.
 
Q. But you didn't mention them in California, where----
 
A. Immigration we mentioned in our acceptance speech. There should not be one illegal immigrant in America. We also made a distinction between illegal and legal. . . .
 
Q. But how much will you campaign on those ideas?
 
A. We've got an immigration bill in Congress. It may depend what President Clinton does with that. . . . But I want to stick to the broad message, an economic message, a drug message, a crime message, appointment of judges. . . .
 
Q. I want to ask you kind of a philosophical question. A professor once told me that great Presidents talk and think a lot about what it means to be President, about what the Presidency means. How would you define the Presidency at the end of the 20th century?
 
A. I think of it as probably the most important governmental role in the world. The United States is the leader; the President of the United States, therefore, by virtue of our country's status, becomes in effect the leader. So you have to be prepared for it. You've got to have the energy, the stamina, the ideas, the agenda. You've got to be able to deal with something that breaks suddenly. It's full-time work. At the same time, you have to be looking ahead, looking at problems. How do you focus on domestic issues? Foreign policy? I think you have to be well organized, you have to be disciplined, sensitive. . . .
I've watched all these different Presidents, starting with Eisenhower, who was leaving when I was coming. I've watched different Presidents. I didn't have the privilege of knowing President Kennedy -- I met him a couple times but didn't know him personally. He certainly had his strengths in communication. Johnson had his strengths in critical times: Vietnam, putting the Great Society together -- even though I didn't agree with it, he moved it. Nixon, Ford, Bush, Carter. . . . So you try to learn from all those people. Hope I have. Think I have.
Also the President, in addition to being the leader, sort of the world leader, the No. 1 leader, he's also President of the United States, and he's someone who should be an inspiration in some ways and looked up to and respected. . . . You have to have certain qualities. People like to know that you've had a few struggles in your lifetime -- it wasn't all handed to you. . . .
 
Q. Yesterday in New Mexico, you responded to the bridge metaphor that President Clinton had used in response to your original statement in your acceptance speech about wanting to be a bridge.
 
A. Original bridge. Building bridges.
 
Q. Since he seems to have turned the tables so effectively, are you having second thoughts about having used that imagery?
 
A. I went back and read it. I didn't say, 'Bridge to the past.'
 
Q. No, you didn't use that word, but I think that was the image, going back to a more tranquil time.
 
A. I didn't see that at all. Bridge to America's youth and the future. It was all sort of forward-looking. As I looked at it. Maybe they looked at it the other way. The problem with their bridges, they're toll bridges. You gotta pay. . . .
 
Q. The President seems to be running on peace and prosperity.
 
A. Incumbents like to do that.
 
Q. But for you to set up a contrast, don't you have to do a kind of gloom-and-doom scenario, and isn't that kind of risky for you, given your reputation?
 
A. I don't think so. If there's anybody more positive than Jack Kemp, I haven't seen him around. We're talking about economic growth, jobs, opportunity, bringing people into the private sector, getting them off welfare, reaching out to people, education, choice, competition. We've got the worst recovery in this century. Wages are stagnant. Wages have actually gone down since Clinton was President. He came in at 3.7 percent growth, and with the big tax increase and all the other stuff, it's down to 2.4 percent. . . .
 
Q. But because of your reputation as kind of a doomsayer, hatchet man, negative----
 
A. Deficit. Deficit. Hawk.
 
Q. Deficit hawk. You're telling people, "Things really aren't as great as he says they are." Don't you risk----
 
A. I don't think so. Why are we doing this economic package? If there wasn't any reason to do it, I'd have a tough sell. If the growth rate was 3.5 percent, we'd be out of business. But it's not. It's 2.4 percent, and it's gone down. . . .
 
Q. You seem to have evolved as a campaigner over the last several months. What have you learned, and what do you need to do more of in the last two months?
 
A. I think I have a lot more confidence. I've done this for quite a while. Obviously, I'm not perfect. It's a little harder for me. I don't move quite as quickly through a crowd, but I love that part of the campaign. . . .
And I've learned to be a little more disciplined.
 
Q. In what way?
 
A. With the media. I like to visit with the media. In the Congress, we'd walk up and down the hall with people. We talked to people all day long. You can't do that when you're -- you're going to step on your own story. . . .
 
Q. Anything you think you need to do more of?
 
A. We have to have a strong message. We have to be able to persuade people that it's doable, whatever it is, whether it's economic, whether it's drugs, whether it's crime, whether it's appointment of judges, whether it's regulatory reform. . . .
As Dan Quayle said, "We're tanned, scanned and ready."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; TAXATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (65%); VETERANS (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); CEREBRAL PALSY (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB BOB DOLE (76%); WILLIAM JEFFERSON 'BILL' CLINTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



59 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: Who Needs Emergency Shelter? Mothers There Speak Out

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

 BODY:
Under the harsh fluorescent lights of a squat, lackluster building in the Bronx, three mothers recently converged on a slab of tile to wait their turn for a bed and a roof. One had worked on and off until the bills caught up to her. Another prayed to God late at night for an apartment of her own, a crisp high school diploma and a job in computers. And a third discovered just how fragile a home life she had after her sister pointed her out the door.
They are among the hundreds of women, their children in tow, their belongings stuffed in clear plastic bags, who have gone to the Emergency Assistance Unit near Yankee Stadium in the last two weeks seeking a subsidized apartment of their own. Some are addicted to drugs or alcohol. A few, city officials charge, are eager only to exploit a generous program for the homeless. But others are single women who have been evicted for falling behind on their rent or have been turned out by relatives who can no longer bear the imposition. 
 "I'm really hoping it works out," said Letricia Bryant, 18, whose parents, grandmother and sister can no longer put her up and who is hoping to go back to high school once she secures a home. "It's not the money I want; it's the place."
Over the years, single mothers like them have come to rely on government to pay rent, fill their refrigerators, buy school clothes for their children and meet their bills. So during the last two weeks, they have watched and worried as President Clinton signed a bill to sharply reduce welfare benefits and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani required them to begin working in exchange for their checks.
And last week, after the Mayor said that many people at the Emergency Assistance Unit were falsely claiming to be homeless, city officials made it harder to get into the center, where families enter New York's shelter system. Under a judge's order to relieve severe overcrowding at the center, the officials began admitting only those who could prove they had nowhere else to go.
Tinged with the bluntness and resilience of poverty, the women's voices are seldom heard above those of legislators and experts who set forth their own apocalyptic theories, moral imperatives and fiscal sensibilities regarding welfare. But these women speak volumes about the monumental task facing both the government and the poor as each learns to redefine their tangled relationship.
The handful of women who spoke from the Emergency Assistance Unit during the last few weeks said that in many ways, they agreed with the President and the Mayor. Welfare, they say, encourages women to "get lax," as Felicia Wallace, 23, one woman at the office, put it. It will never truly help free them from poverty. They want work, they say, and they want to show their children a better way out.
But where, they ask, are the jobs that will pay their bills? Who will take care of their children when they are at work? How will they ever find an apartment they can afford? New York City, they say, is not Idaho, and $4.25 an hour does not add up to $800 a month in rent.
"If you work a minimum wage job, that's nothing," said Teresa Falu, 33, who wound up at the center with her three children. "Think about paying rent, with a family, working at McDonald's. You will rob the cash register is what you will do."

Trying to Work
Job Initiative Isn't Always Enough
A high school graduate who served in the Army, Ms. Falu never had to work at McDonald's. She found better-paying jobs, but the wages still did not support her three children. Pumping gas, she made $190 a week plus tips. Working at a doctor's office, she took home $215 a week, with no benefits. Even her job at a hospital, drawing blood, paid her $27,000 a year before taxes, again with no health insurance.
Each time she became pregnant, she trudged back to the welfare office to enlist the government's help once again. But a few months ago, she showed the kind of initiative that many politicians, including Mayor Giuliani, hope more welfare recipients will show: She gave up her Bronx apartment and moved to Florida with her family for a job as an AT&T long distance seller, a position that paid $250 a week plus commission.
But even in Florida, Ms. Falu could not outstep poverty. The electric bills and the $550 a month in rent sliced into most of her paycheck. Her children hated their new neighborhood in Florida. Her boyfriend, who was unemployed in Florida, became so depressed he had to be hospitalized. So she went back to the Bronx with less money than before, and moved in with her sister, who put up with the entourage for a short while.
"There were seven people in two bedrooms," she said of her sister's place. "I wasn't comfortable. The children were fighting."
Ms. Falu said she had tried to find apartments on her own, but they were too expensive. A two-bedroom in the Bronx, she said, is renting for $800 a month, not including the money she must hand over up front. Disillusioned, she walked through the metal doors of the homeless center and found hundreds of women and children clustered on a dirty floor.
"It looked like a third-world country," Ms. Falu said. "I came here and my shock was so severe that I walked back out. But you have to get your pride down."
As she waited to slip a quarter into the telephone slot, Rosemarie Cartagena, a 22-year-old mother of three, told how she wound up with nowhere to go but this nondescript brick building.
Since she dropped out of school in the 10th grade after becoming pregnant, Ms. Cartagena said she almost always managed to get by without public assistance. She took odd jobs as a cashier in a hair salon and a beauty supply store, usually paying no more than $150 a week. What ultimately kept her aloft, however, was her family: Her grandmother cared for the children while she worked, and her sister allowed her to share her apartment.
But when one safety valve faltered, the rest gave out as well. Her grandmother fell ill, which meant there would be no more free day care and no more job. The welfare checks started to come in every two weeks. Then her sister asked her to leave, saying her one-bedroom apartment was too small for seven people. "It got to the point where no one could take me in," she said.
Work, Ms. Cartagena argued, has never been the issue. "I would rather work," she said. Even workfare, the Mayor's program requiring welfare recipients to pay for their benefits by cleaning up parks and streets, is not a bad idea, she added. "I wouldn't care," she said. "It's important to do it for my kids, to set an example."
Melanie Flores, who left high school at 17, handed her year-old baby, Ricardo, a bottle of juice one afternoon, then rattled off a list of the countless places she had looked for work: Burger King, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Macy's, Caldor's and on and on. "It's hard to find a job," said Ms. Flores, who has spent most of her 19 years in group homes. "They said, 'I'll call you,' but they don't call."
Statistics bear out her complaint. Katherine S. Newman, who headed a study at Columbia University on the role of work in poor households, said that in New York City there are no quick and easy jobs for the poor.
The university study, which tracked some 200 fast-food job applicants in Central Harlem from 1992 through 1994, found that 14 people applied for every one position. Many applicants found no work after a year, despite considerable effort. And some economists and job-training experts worry that large cities with sluggish economies, like New York City, will be unable to absorb so many inexperienced people into the job market.
At a McDonald's on 161st Street in the Bronx, not too far from the homeless assistance office, 20 applicants, more or less, show up every Tuesday, hiring day, to apply for jobs. The competition for better-paying jobs is just as intense, Ms. Newman said.
"The employers are bombarded with people looking for work," said Ms. Newman, now a professor of public policy at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government.

Welfare Poverty
'I'm Making My Kids Go Through Hell'
Sonia Reynoso sat on a wobbly wooden bench outside the homeless center and watched two of her children run up and down the sidewalk. Without mincing words, she explained that welfare in New York City is "too easy to get."
She is a perfect example of that, she offered. A few months ago, while she waited for permanent housing from the city, she left for Atlanta with her boyfriend and her three small children. Thinking she could sign up for public assistance without a hitch, she was shocked to discover it wasn't so uncomplicated down South.
"They are stricter there," said Ms. Reynoso, who is 35. "You have to look for 30 or 40 jobs before you get it."
As she roamed about Atlanta expecting rejection, she came up with two part-time jobs, one as a manager at McDonald's, the other in a factory. "It's easier to find a job there," she explained.
But circumstances thwarted her attempt to start over. In a matter of months, she said, her boyfriend turned violent. She and her family fled to a battered women's shelter. Afraid she would be stalked, she quit both her jobs and returned to New York with no money and no place to live.
"I find myself worse off every day," she said. "I'm making my kids go through hell. We need to get these young people off welfare."
Poverty in neighborhoods like Mott Haven or Bushwick or Washington Heights is not something that can be explained with numbers and charts and rhetoric, these women said. Poverty, they said, is best told in the details.
Teresa Wilson does not have the best set of teeth, and her dress was a bit soiled from days spent with her 12-year-old daughter in the homeless shelter after she was evicted, but that is not as important as the rest. She knows what she has to do to get ahead, but it often seems a Sisyphean task, even with the food stamps and cash benefits she received for her daughter.
In the last 10 years, Ms. Wilson, 31, has braided hair, filed paperwork, sold candy in neighborhood stores and shoveled snow to help the family squeak by -- all the while her daughter's father refuses to pay child support, she said. But there is nothing left to show for it, no "just in case" money to put away, no credit cards to slip into her wallet. She has considered moving out of state for a job, but with no money in the bank, she cannot afford an apartment or the transportation costs.
Twice, her telephone was disconnected until Ms. Wilson could scrape together money to reconnect it. Kitchen cabinets were stocked with "lots of starches to fill you up," she said. Once a month, she set aside $17 for a movie for the two of them. Now, she cannot even afford that.
"It's hard to tell your child, no, no, no," she said. "It's hard to explain I need this money for bills."
Ms. Wilson and the rest of the women at the shelter face other obstacles as well. Job interviews require what some of them call "dress for success" clothes. But who can afford them? Shedding their street-wise ways is not so easy, either. "Nobody is going to hire you saying, 'Yo, Bro,' " Ms. Falu said.
Then there are the less tangible struggles: keeping their daughters from the drug dealers and their flashy gold trinkets, convincing their friends and relatives to let them stay one more month, buoying their spirits so they can swing their legs out of bed in the mornings.
"We have lived with seven different people in the last two years," said Valencia Griffin, 32. "It isn't easy."
Some with checkered pasts acknowledged the difficulty of starting anew. "I've been out on my own since I was 15 and I lost a lot of discipline," said Felicia Wallace, a 23-year-old single mother with blondish cornrows. "After so long of growing up without stability, you go in all kinds of directions."
Nevertheless, Ms. Griffin and Ms. Wilson, along with a host of women who drifted in and out of the office, said they were cautiously optimistic about what is being promised: a stepping stone off welfare checks every two weeks.
"Giuliani is right in certain ways," Ms. Wilson said. "People need to better their lives, but he better make sure there are jobs out there because then there won't be welfare and it will be a bigger problem."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rosemarie Cartagena, 22, with her three children near the Emergency Assistance Unit, where she and other homeless women seek help. "I would rather work," she said, adding that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's workfare plan was not a bad idea. "It's important to do it for my kids," she said; Letricia Bryant, 18, a mother. "It's not the money I want," she said. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE UNIT (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF EMERGENCY SHELTERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (88%); CITIES (88%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); EVICTION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); JUDGES (50%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE BILL CLINTON (54%); RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



60 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BILL CLINTON
From a speech to supporters in Little Rock, Ark.: 
 "Think what it would mean to Arkansans if we said every family in this state, except those like me, who don't need it, can have a deduction for the cost of college tuition -- any tuition after high school, up to $10,000 a year.
Think what it would mean to the people of this state if we could say to every unemployed person and every underemployed person, we want you to have access to a new kind of G.I. Bill, a G.I. Bill for America's workers, because this economy changes a lot and even when we're creating jobs, some people are always being left behind. So we're going to give you $2,600 a year to spend as you see fit getting an education and finding a new job so you can get a better job with higher skills and a brighter future. Think what that would mean if we could do that here for our people.
Think what it would mean when we hook up every classroom and every library and every school in this state not only with computers and trained teachers, but hook them up to the information superhighway so that, for the first time in the history of America, in the poorest school district in Arkansas, they can get the same information in the same time, with the same quality as people in the richest schools in this country do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TUITION FEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); ELECTIONS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



61 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Halts Deal for Iraq Oil Sales As U.S. Pledges Action on Attack

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration vowed today to punish Saddam Hussein for Iraq's military thrust into the Kurdish enclave in northern Iraq, and the United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, suspended the recent agreement to allow Iraq to sell oil to raise cash for food and medicine.
On a day full of diplomatic contacts in which the Administration kept all of its options open, there were indications tonight that the United States stepped up military activity even further in the region. 
 Among other things, one official said, the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson and accompanying warships moved northward in the Persian Gulf. The ships are capable of striking deep into Iraq with aircraft or missiles.
The suspension of the oil sales agreement was the first international response to Iraq's incursion north against the Kurds, whose enclave has been protected by the United States and its allies since 1991. In a statement, Mr. Boutros-Ghali said he had decided to suspend the sale because of "the deterioration of the situation in northern Iraq."
Although the United States and others encouraged the suspension to punish Iraq, Mr. Boutros-Ghali's spokeswoman, Sylvanna Foa, said the decision arose primarily from concern about the security of the workers needed to monitor the sales.
At the same time, Administration officials stepped up the tenor of their criticism of Mr. Hussein and heightened their threats of retaliation.
Leon Panetta, the President's chief of staff, said the United States would "respond accordingly" to Iraq's incursion. "I don't want to say when or where or what, but we will respond," he said today on the NBC news program "Meet the Press."
The suspension of the oil sale and the Administration's threats came a day after Iraq overran Erbil, the main Kurdish city in the north.
Despite an initial pledge to withdraw, officials in Washington said, Iraq appeared to expand its attack today and shelled at least one other city, having allied itself with forces from the Kurdistan Democratic Party against its rival faction, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan.
In Baghdad today, Iraq's Defense Minister, Lieut. Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmed, emerged from a Cabinet meeting and announced that Mr. Hussein had ordered Iraqi forces to withdraw from Erbil, Reuters news service reported.
[Iraqi troops along with their heavy armor and artillery have evacuated Erbil, United Nations relief officials and guards in the city said on Monday, Reuters reported fron Baghdad.
 ["All Iraqis have left Erbil," one United Nations official in that city said by telephone. "We cannot see any more tanks or vehicles or artillery."]
Administration officials said that Iraq would still face punishment even if it did pull out of Erbil and the exclusion zone, as its officials were pledging. "It's irrelevant," an official said, when asked about Iraq's statements that it would withdraw. "It does not remove the requirement to pay for the misdeed."
President Clinton spoke with leaders of America's allies and other nations, including Prime Minister John Major of Britain and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, while the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. John Shalikashvili, and Assistant Secretary of State Robert Pelletreau traveled to Saudi Arabia, senior Administration officials said.
As the diplomatic cables churned, the officials said the Administration had ruled out nothing, including a military strike.
President Clinton has ordered retaliation before. In June 1993, the United States launched a missile attack at Iraqi targets, including Baghdad, after implicating Mr. Hussein's Government in an attempt to assassinate former President George Bush during a visit to Kuwait.
Iraqi forces, estimated to include 30,000 to 40,000 troops backed by tanks and heavy artillery, seized Erbil on Saturday. Saying they were intervening on behalf of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, the Iraqi troops routed fighters of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, which has occasionally allied itself with Iran.
Mr. Panetta acknowledged that Iraq's campaign in the northern exclusion zone -- created by the United States, Britain and France to protect the Kurds from Iraqi repression -- posed a more complex question than the invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
"There's some distinction here between invading into Kuwait and engaging in an internal dispute here with the Kurds," Mr. Panetta said today when asked whether Mr. Hussein could act with impunity.
Striking at Iraq's forces now could drag the United States into the conflict among the Kurds -- or at least create the appearance that it had sided with one side over the other. For two years, the Administration has tried to patch up the divisions and keep the Kurds united, fearing intervention by Iraq and Iran.
Other senior officials insisted that the Administration's focus would remain on punishing Mr. Hussein, the Iraqi President, regardless of whatever loose alliances he may have with the Kurds.
Iraq appeared undaunted by the threats. A Government newspaper in Baghdad warned the United States today to stay out of the north. "The Iraqi people, in the forefront Iraqi Kurds, are ready to provide an example that will inevitably remind the Americans of the Vietnam complex," it said in an editorial.
The attack was President Hussein's most significant military campaign since the aftermath of the Persian Gulf war when, having been driven out of Kuwait, his forces crushed rebellions by the Kurds in the north and Shiites in the south.
Iraq considers the exclusion zone a violation of its sovereignty, but it has until now largely respected the demarcation line established between its forces and the Kurds. In 1991, the United Nations passed a resolution demanding that Iraq stop repressing its minority populations, including the Kurds. The United States, under President Bush, used the resolution as justification for creating the "no flight" zone to protect the Kurds.
The United Nations agreement with Iraq on oil sales, reached after months of debate and the resistance of the United States, would have allowed Iraq to sell up to $2 billion in oil every six months. The proceeds would then pay for food, medicine and other goods needed to relieve the hardships facing many Iraqis after six years of international sanctions.
Although the Security Council approved the sale last month, the plan called on Mr. Boutros-Ghali to take several steps, including hiring many inspectors, to insure that the funds from the sale were not diverted by Mr. Hussein's Government. It was the deployment of those inspectors that Mr. Boutros-Ghali called off today, stopping the deal from moving forward, at least for now.
While Administration officials refused to disclose the options being discussed, they made it clear that the President and others were calling allies with specific proposals in mind.
The United States has considerable forces in the region. There are more than 300 warplanes within striking distance, including those aboard the Vinson in the Persian Gulf and the carrier Enterprise in the Mediterranean, as well as missiles.
There are also some 23,000 troops, including 15,000 sailors and marines aboard the fleet, led by the Vinson, that plies the Persian Gulf to enforce the international sanctions against Iraq. The United States also has 6,000 other troops in the region, most of them based in Saudi Arabia, as well as others in the area for military exercises.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 3, 1996, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about United States and United Nations policy toward Iraq misspelled the given name of the spokeswoman for the United Nations Secretary General in some copies. She is Sylvana Foa, not Sylvanna.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American F-15 warplane taking off from the Incirlik Air Base near Adana, Turkey, to help patrol a protected zone for Kurds in northern Iraq. The United States has more than 300 warplanes in the region. (Reuters); President Saddam Hussein, seated at right, met with advisers including Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, third from left. Yesterday, Mr. Aziz said Mr. Hussein had ordered Iraqi forces to withdraw from Erbil. (Pool photo via The Associated Press) (pg. 6)
 
Map of Iraq showing the location of Mosul. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) NBC UNIVERSAL INC (66%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); GULF STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



62 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: PALESTINIAN TALKS WITH ISRAEL NEAR

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 1

 BODY:
Despite all the dramatic gestures, public rancor and political wrangles on both sides, the new Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority are reported to be near an understanding on moving forward with their peace, Israeli officials said today.
The officials and television news programs reported that representatives of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, had met through the night. 
 They were said to be trying to conclude a deal that would include a joint announcement of renewed negotiations, a meeting between Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat and a Palestinian agreement to renegotiate some details of the plan for Israeli withdrawal from Hebron.
In addition, there were reports that Israel was considering several "confidence-building measures" -- including an increase in the number of Palestinian laborers permitted to work in Israel from 37,000 to at least 50,000, the opening of a Palestinian airport in Gaza and possibly the release from detention of Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the ailing spiritual leader of the militant Islamic movement Hamas.
For his part, Mr. Arafat made a crucial concession last week when he quietly closed two Palestinian offices in Jerusalem that the Israelis had declared an obstacle to the withdrawal from Hebron, the only West Bank city with a substantial Jewish population.
Initially, Foreign Minister David Levy suggested to reporters while on a visit to Egypt today that the package could be announced today. But officials close to the talks declined to set a deadline, saying an agreement had not yet been concluded and could still come up against obstacles or disruptions from either side.
The announcement of resumed peace talks would represent a milestone both for Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat. No Likud Government has ever formally met with Palestinian leaders, and criticism of the previous Labor Government's peace with the Palestine Liberation Organization -- and specifically its dealings with Mr. Arafat -- were central themes in Mr. Netanyahu's election campaign.
Since taking office, Mr. Netanyahu has faced rising pressure from the United States, Arab leaders, Palestinians and many Israelis to resume the peace talks. Palestinians say Mr. Arafat has also had to realize that he has no option but to deal with the Likud Government, since any retreat from the peace, or any eruption of violence among Palestinians, would be turned as much against him as against the Israelis.
"We've both recognized that we're stuck with each other," said an Israeli official close to the talks. "We're stuck in a boat together, and if either one rocks it, we sink together."
Even while Mr. Arafat has thundered during the last week about an Israeli declaration of war and has called on Palestinians to hold protest prayers in mosques and churches, he and his lieutenants have continued holding private meetings with Mr. Netanyahu's representatives and with foreign intermediaries.
In recent days, Israeli officials approved new construction in Jewish settlements and the demolition of a Palestinian social center in Jerusalem and took other well-publicized actions that the Palestinians denounced. But Mr. Netanyahu also defied outcries from Ariel Sharon and other hard-line members of his Government last week by appointing a negotiating oversight committee that included only officials who had demonstrated a moderate stance toward the peace -- among them himself, Mr. Levy and Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai.
Officials said negotiations on ways to restart the talks had been held during the last month in informal meetings between Mr. Netanyahu's foreign affairs adviser, Dore Gold, and Mr. Arafat's deputy, Mahmoud Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen.
The coordinator of United Nations activities in the Palestinian territories, Terje Larsen of Norway, and his wife, Mona Juul, a Norwegian diplomat, have played important roles in bringing them together. They were also important intermediaries in the secret talks between the Labor Government and the P.L.O. that led to the 1993 peace. Some of the new meetings reportedly have been held in their apartment in Tel Aviv.
In recent days, the American Middle East coordinator, Dennis Ross, and the American Ambassador to Israel, Martin Indyk, have also joined in the process. Initially, Mr. Netanyahu reportedly resisted including them because of their support in the election for the incumbent Prime Minister, Shimon Peres of the Labor Party.
But Mr. Gold stressed in an interview today that Mr. Ross "has established a strong reputation for credibility with decision-makers in Jerusalem," and that he was playing "an extremely constructive role as a facilitator, to make sure everybody is in the ring."
Last week, Mr. Ross met with Mr. Gold and Egyptian envoys in Paris and then spoke by telephone with Mr. Arafat -- interrupting the Palestinian leader in the middle of his hard-line speech Wednesday that called for a Palestinian warning strike.
All along, officials said, the informal meetings have been accompanied by wrangles and obstacles on both sides. On the Israeli side, Mr. Netanyahu had to contend with a challenge from Mr. Levy, who resented Mr. Gold's dominance in foreign affairs, and with continuing pressure from Likud hard-liners and Jewish settlers against any substantive concessions.
On the Palestinian side, Mr. Arafat has also had to contend with rivalry between two senior deputies -- Mr. Abbas, his representative in the informal meetings with Israel, and Ahmed Qurai, also known as Abu Ala, the former chief negotiator, who is now the president of the Israeli Legislative Council -- and with mounting criticism of the peace agreement among the Palestinians.
The talks were also disrupted by Mr. Arafat's fury over several incidents -- a temporary ban on using his helicopter to fly between Gaza and the West Bank, the Israeli Government's announcement of new construction in the Jewish settlements and the demolition of a Palestinian social club in Jerusalem last week. The latter was evidently ordered by Mayor Ehud Olmert of Jerusalem, not by Mr. Netanyahu.
Nonetheless, in the view of many Palestinian and Israeli officials, Mr. Arafat deliberately kept his public show of anger within bounds last week. The officials said he deliberately did not enforce his calls for mass Muslim prayers on Friday and Christian prayers on Sunday in Jerusalem, both of which drew low turnouts, because his purpose was only to send a message to Israel -- not to risk a huge demonstration of which he could become a target.
For their part, Israeli officials said, they were unhappy with Mr. Arafat's decision to start releasing Islamic militants detained since the crackdown that followed a series of suicide bombings this year. The officials said they were particularly irritated by the release of Mohammed al-Hindi, a leader of the Islamic Holy War organization who is believed by Israel to be linked to one attack.
Though officials have been reluctant to predict when an understanding might be announced, both Mr. Arafat and Mr. Netanyahu are preparing for important missions at which they would probably like to demonstrate progress.
Countries that have pledged money to the Palestinians are meeting in Washington on Thursday, and Mr. Arafat badly needs support to offset a deficit estimated as high as $90 million. Evidence that peace negotiations are back on track could bolster his case.
Mr. Netanyahu heads for the United States on Sept. 10 for a meeting with Jewish organizations and probably with President Clinton.
Egypt also reiterated to Mr. Levy today its threat to call off a Middle Eastern economic summit meeting in November unless there is tangible progress between Israel and the Palestinians. The regional meetings, of which the first was held in Casablanca in 1994 and the next in Amman, Jordan, last year, have been major occasions for Israel to promote better economic ties in the Middle East.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Monday about Israeli-Palestinian negotiations misidentified a former chief negotiator, Ahmed Qurai. He is president of the Palestinian legislative council, not an Israeli one.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu waved yesterday as his Government and Palestinian officials neared agreement on new peace talks. (Associated Press) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP; HEBRON (WEST BANK); ; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; AIRPORTS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); AIRPORTS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR; YASSIN, AHMED (SHEIK); SCHMEMANN, SERGE BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1996



63 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Western Butterfly Shifting North as Global Climate Warms

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
THE research required 45,000 miles of driving and 14 months of living in a tent, but Dr. Camille Parmesan, a California biologist, has come up with what scientists say is the clearest evidence so far that global warming is forcing living species to move toward the poles and to higher altitudes.
Experts have long predicted that many organisms would shift their ranges in response to climatic change, just as they have several times in the past. But good evidence of such movement in response to the modest warming of the last century has been lacking. 
 Now, in a study that is said to be the first of its kind to cover a species' full geographic range, Dr. Parmesan has found that the range of a western butterfly, the Edith's checkerspot, has shifted northward by about 100 miles.
In the summers of 1992 through 1994, Dr. Parmesan, an expert on the checkerspot, made on-the-spot surveys of more than 100 previously recorded populations of the butterfly from Mexico to Canada and eastward to Colorado. By comparing what she found with previous records, she discovered a pattern of local extinctions and colonizations that taken together, documented the northward movement of the species.
The shift, she said, is surprisingly large for the relatively small average warming of the earth's surface, about 1 degree Fahrenheit, over the last century. And since she took into account other possible causes of the movement, she said, her study strongly suggests that warming is the cause of the change.
"What my study shows is that we're apparently already seeing an effect, even though this is a small warming," Dr. Parmesan said. The effect "is stronger than I expected," she said. Dr. Parmesan is a researcher at the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis at the University of California at Santa Barbara. A report on her study, conducted while she was at the University of Texas at Austin, appears in the current issue of the journal Nature.
It is an important paper, said Dr. Peter Kareiva, an ecologist at the University of Washington in Seattle. "People have hypothesized a good deal about how species are going to respond to climate change, but we don't have any good data prior to hers."
Mainstream climatologists say the warming of the earth's surface over the last century has probably been caused at least in part by emissions of heat-trapping waste industrial gases like carbon dioxide. They predict that the warming will continue, most likely amounting to about 3.5 degrees by the end of the next century if emissions are not reduced. By comparison, the world is 5 to 9 degrees warmer now than in the depths of the last ice age.
The predicted warming is expected to cause widespread climatic, ecological and economic dislocation. When the great ice sheets advanced and retreated, the ranges of countless creatures, not to mention entire forest and grassland ecosystems, moved with them. Some ecologists say that a further warming could consign some species to extinction by eliminating their habitats. Among these are the monarch butterfly, the edelweiss and the polar bear.
Several recent studies have documented local population shifts, but these have been considered inconclusive because they were insufficient to show a range shift for the species as a whole: they could indicate merely a local expansion or contraction of a population. Moreover, other factors besides warming might explain the changes; local populations of wild species might be eliminated by local air pollution or changes in land use, for instance.
Dr. Parmesan began by combing museum and amateur collections of the checkerspot, along with researchers' field notes, for information about its past distribution. In this way she was able to pinpoint more than 600 sites where the butterflies formerly lived over the last century.
She eliminated from consideration sites altered over the century by human activities -- construction, overgrazing or logging -- that would exterminate or otherwise affect butterfly populations. She also eliminated sites affected by urban air pollution and those that could not be clearly located from the records. Ultimately she pared the list down to 151 essentially pristine checkerspot habitats, a large sample distributed over the species' full range. As it turned out, these unspoiled sites were more heavily concentrated in the northern and southern ends of the range, where development is sparsest, and where the signs of a shifting range would be manifest.
Existing up-to-date records on butterfly populations made it unnecessary to visit about 20 percent of the sites. Dr. Parmesan drove to all the rest to make her on-the-spot census. This involved looking for adult butterflies, caterpillars and eggs as well as host plants where the females lay their eggs and on which the hatched caterpillars feed. The Indian paintbrush and other members of the snapdragon family are especially favored.
Driving a "ratty old" 1977 four-wheel-drive vehicle, she surveyed sites for four months each in 1992 and 1993 before graduating to another vehicle for a six-month stint in 1994. Toward the end of that stint, she said, the camping-out "started to get tedious; I really wanted to watch TV and have a hot shower and a microwave to heat stuff up in."
The payoff came when her data revealed an increase in net extinctions (more extinctions than colonizations) in the southern end of the range and a decrease in net extinctions in the northern end over the century. Populations in Mexico were four times as likely to be extinct than those in Canada, she discovered.
She also found that mountain populations were more robust at elevations above 8,000 feet. The butterflies occur up to 13,000 feet, above which there is no vegetation to support them. Those high-altitude populations do better when cold and snow moderate, Dr. Parmesan said, leading her to suggest that a general warming at the higher elevations might be responsible for the mountain butterflies' robust condition. But she did not find an accompanying increase in extinctions at lower altitudes, as would be expected. So the evidence on altitude shifts caused by climatic change "isn't as clean" as that for a shift in range, she said.
Other studies have shown that the checkerspot's population dynamics are sensitive to climate, she said, adding that gradual climate change affects not the butterfly itself but the host plants: by changing the growing period of the plants, it interferes with the butterflies' reproduction schedule.
Predators and parasites might affect population dynamics, but Dr. Parmesan said that their distribution did not increase or decrease with latitude. While she has tried to account for all possible causes of the shift aside from global warming, she said, "I cannot say that climate warming has caused the shift; what I can say is that it is exactly what is predicted from global warming scenarios, that the butterfly's population dynamics are sensitive to climate and that other, smaller studies around the world have indicated evidence for northward shifts of species ranges."
"When you put it all together," she said, "the picture that's coming out is that climate warming is affecting wild organisms."
Conclusive evidence, she wrote in Nature, will come not from a single study that seeks to analyze all possible variables, but from repeated full-range studies of other species in other regions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A female Edith's checkerspot butterly (Euphydryas editha) in the Sierra Nevada in California. The butterfly's range is moving north. (Parmesan and Singer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (70%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (70%); EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K; PARMESAN, CAMILLE (DR) CAMILLE PARMESAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



64 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Electric Cars, Clean Air And the Latest Myth

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is paradoxical that despite Peter Passell's attempt to dispel so-called "politically correct" myths about electric vehicles (Economic Scene, Aug. 29), he continues to perpetuate a myth about gas-powered cars. 
 Mr. Passell contends that new gasoline vehicles are 95 to 98 percent cleaner than before emission standards were put in place. Although the standards for tailpipe emissions have been lowered to this amount, actual emissions are 600 times greater.
Even if we remove all older, higher-polluting cars from the road, we will continue to breathe unhealthy air.
Clean-air officials in New York, Massachusetts and California are aware of the truths behind these myths. Cars and trucks are responsible for more than half the smog-forming emissions in urban areas. That is why states are calling for automakers to do their part to clean the air by building clean electric cars.
 
ROLAND J. HWANG
Berkeley, Calif., Aug. 30, 1996
 
The writer is a senior analyst with the Union of Concerned Scientists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (88%); SMOG (87%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; HWANG, ROWLAND J PETER PASSELL (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



65 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Bill May Pit Five Boroughs In Jobs Battle

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
A little-noticed bill approved by the State Legislature would take away some of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's authority over economic development and give it to the five borough presidents. It raises the unusual prospect of the boroughs competing against one another -- and against City Hall -- for jobs by dangling ever-larger incentives in front of private businesses.
The bill, which the Legislature passed in July in the final hours of its annual session, would set up an Industrial Development Agency in each borough that would be empowered to grant millions of dollars in inducements to companies in an effort to persuade them to create or retain jobs. 
 The Mayor of New York City has long been able to lure businesses by handing out a grab bag of tax cuts, low-interest loans, zoning changes and other incentives. Under the legislation, the borough presidents would wield some of that power.
Gov. George E. Pataki has not decided whether to sign or veto the legislation, but the Giuliani administration has fought it, contending that it would fragment and factionalize the city's economic development policy.
There is already a citywide Industrial Development Agency, which would continue operating, so if the bill becomes law, there would be six such agencies in the city. Since 1974, the citywide agency has assisted local companies in 763 projects through the issuing of $5 billion in bonds, officials said. That has helped retain 140,000 jobs, they said.
The bill, which was passed by an overwhelming margin in both houses of the Legislature, once again seems to underscore Mr. Giuliani's political weakness in Albany. He has little support in the leadership of the Democratic-controlled Assembly, and the Republican majority in the State Senate has regarded him with suspicion since he crossed party lines in 1994 to endorse the re-election bid of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat.
The legislation also continues a longstanding trend of interest groups -- in this case, the borough presidents -- going to Albany to get what they were denied at City Hall. It was sponsored by two powerful Bronx legislators, Senator Guy J. Velella, a Republican, and Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, a Democrat, both of whom might be able to wield some influence over the new industrial agency in their borough.
The bill's boosters argue that city officials often ignore the economic interests of neighborhoods that are not in or near Manhattan. They say development agencies controlled by the borough presidents would be better able to serve their boroughs.
"We feel in this borough that we are being locked out of a lot of economic opportunity," said Clint Roswell, a spokesman for the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, a Democrat. "The Bronx is not getting its share of funds."
Mr. Pataki vetoed a bill last year that would have set up a separate industrial agency for the Bronx, acting after protests from Mr. Giuliani and the other four boroughs. The new bill expands the agencies to the other boroughs, in part to limit opposition from their officials.
Aides to Mr. Giuliani said the borough presidents should not be allowed to dole out incentives like tax cuts because the presidents do not have to take responsibility for the resulting impact of those reductions on the city budget -- the Mayor and the City Council do.
Under the bill, the Mayor would have veto power over any deals made by the borough development agencies, but only after a final agreement had been reached. Administration officials said it might be difficult for the Mayor to step in and scuttle an agreement because it might anger the company involved, scaring away jobs and damaging the city's reputation.
They also expressed concern that under the bill, there would be six development agencies in the city going after the same business.
"You will have borough presidents giving out tax breaks willy-nilly without that being part of any citywide economic development plan," said Charles Millard, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which oversees the citywide Industrial Development Agency. "If people feel that the city is Balkanized by borough now, this bill is a prescription for making it worse."
The bill requires the state to take 25 percent of the bonding authority of the city industrial agency and divide it among the five borough agencies. Last year, the citywide agency encouraged companies to create or retain jobs by giving them the right to sell $120 million in triple tax-free bonds. So under the legislation, the five borough agencies would split $30 million in bonding authority.
Companies that sell triple tax-free bonds have an advantage in raising capital because they can pay low interest rates. Buyers of the bonds are willing to accept the low rates because they do not have to pay local, state or Federal taxes on the interest that they earn.
Mr. Millard said the criticism of the city's economic development efforts in the Bronx was unfounded. He said the Bronx has 7 percent of the businesses in New York City but last year received 10 percent of the bonding authority of the citywide Industrial Development Agency.
He described one example: Streamline Enterprises, a company in the Port Morris section of the Bronx, wanted to buy a building to expand, so the agency let it issue $2.1 million in triple tax-free bonds. The company, which has 58 jobs, is expected to create 13 more, he said.
Bronx officials did not dispute that the Giuliani administration had had some successes in the borough. But they said it was not enough.
Assemblyman Ramirez, a sponsor of the bill in Albany, scoffed at the administration's assertions that the new industrial agencies would cause havoc in the city's economic development policy.
"Why be afraid of a little competition?" Mr. Ramirez said. "Don't you think that the New York City I.D.A. would be well served by having five unthreatening counterparts, doing the same work, when the Mayor has the final say?"
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (57%); STATE LEGISLATURE (65%); INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (65%); INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); TRENDS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); JOB CREATION (78%); ZONING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); TAX LAW (68%); BONDS (68%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



66 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: States' Wrongs on Abortion

 BODY:
Although the debate about national abortion policy is the one drawing headlines, the real action on abortion today is not in Washington but in the states. In state legislatures around the country, abortion's opponents are winning a stealth war to limit women's right to choose. In many states, access to abortion is now prohibitively daunting for all but a small percentage of women. Today 84 percent of American counties have no abortion providers. North Dakota's only abortion doctor lives out of state and flies to Fargo once a week. In many states, women must drive four or five hours to the nearest clinic.
The erosion of the constitutional right to choose abortion, supposedly guaranteed by Roe v. Wade, has three interlocking causes. The first is economics. Hospital abortion is now so expensive that women must go to doctors' offices or specialized abortion clinics. Clinics, in turn, cannot find the customers to stay in business outside major cities. The second factor is protesters' harassment and violence. Especially in small towns, few doctors are determined enough to risk their practices and even their lives to perform abortions. Linking these is a spate of new state laws that provide the final blow to any doctor still interested in performing abortions and block a woman's journey to a big-city clinic. 
 Eleven states require women to get counseling by a doctor and then either stay overnight or make another trip to have the abortion later, usually 24 hours later. These laws are ostensibly designed to give the woman time for reflection, but their practical result is to make the trip harder and more expensive. The lag time has also allowed protesters to trace patients' license plate numbers on their first visit and contact their families before they come in for the abortion. One protester takes pride in calling young women's parents to announce that their grandchild is about to be murdered.
Last year, legislators in 22 new states introduced bills for mandatory waiting periods. Twenty-eight states require women under 18 to notify or get the consent of one or both parents. Teen-agers often put off such conversations. They have later, more dangerous abortions in states with such laws. Thirty-seven states deny Medicaid coverage for abortions even when necessary to preserve the woman's health. Pro-life think tanks are continuously drafting proposed new laws, which state legislators introduce around the country.
The newest laws took effect in Mississippi last month. The state already had a 24-hour mandatory waiting period and a law requiring minors to get the consent of both parents. The new laws require doctors who advertise abortion services or do more than nine a month -- about two hours of the doctor's time -- to widen their hallways and hire more staff to qualify as surgical centers. Doctors must give women face-to-face counseling 24 hours before an abortion, and must offer a brochure with full-color pictures of fetuses at two-week stages of development. Courts are now deciding whether these laws unconstitutionally restrict access to abortion.
The trend in the states has gotten little attention in part because it leaves urban middle-class women's access to abortions largely untouched. Its impact falls on young, poor, rural or small-town women who lack the money and organization to track down an absent father to get his permission, get two days off from work, find an overnight baby sitter, drive four hours to a big-city clinic and pay for a hotel room. It is these women, of course, whose lives are most limited by unwanted pregnancies. Their right to choose requires extra vigilance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FARGO, ND, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; STATES (US); EDITORIALS ABORTION (96%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); FAMILY (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



67 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: If Inflation Is Tamed, Does It Have to Be Killed?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Sept. 1

 BODY:
Central bankers, exemplars of caution, are not ones to proclaim victory, especially over so resilient a foe as inflation.
But at a gathering here of the Federal Reserve's top officials and central bankers and economists from other countries there was a widespread consensus that inflation has at last been tamed if not mastered -- and that it is time to think about how and whether to exterminate it. 
 That there is a serious discussion under way about achieving true price stability "is a testament to the effectiveness of the conduct of monetary policy around the world in bringing inflation to heel over the past 15 years or so," said Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
"And now, for the first time in at least a generation, the goal of price stability is within the reach of all the major industrial countries as well as a substantial number of others."
In nearly all the big economies, inflation has been brought down below 3 percent, a sharp improvement from the early 1980's, and central banks enjoy steady if arguably tenuous support for a continuation of relatively tight monetary policy. In Japan, inflation has been virtually zero in the last year, with many economists seeing the main risk there as one of deflation: falling prices.
But even as they began shifting their sights to pushing inflation another notch or two toward zero -- a challenge at least as difficult as going from 15 percent to 5 percent, several bankers said -- many central bankers here remained preoccupied with holding onto the gains they have already made.
In the United States, the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee appears divided over whether interest rates need to be increased to cool off a surprisingly strong economy, and if so, whether the Fed should move before the Presidential election.
In Europe, central bankers are consumed with laying the groundwork for the European Union's planned single currency.
Moreover, it remains unclear whether the goal of moving toward zero inflation could survive an economic downturn in any of the big industrial nations. And although most participants at the conference said experience had proven there was no long-run benefit to employment from higher inflation rates, they acknowledged that it was an open question whether there would be political support for any aggressive and potentially painful moves to stamp out inflation, especially in Europe, where unemployment remains distressingly high.
"In fact, things are not going so well in our economies that we do not have to be afraid of the temptation to solve problems through inflation becoming irresistible again," said Otmar Issing, the chief economist of the Bundesbank, the German central bank.
Still, the two-day conference at a mountainside resort here, sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Mo., made clear a marked shift in thinking about inflation.
After years of debating how to bring inflation from double-digits to single-digits and keep it there, bankers and economists are looking at the costs and benefits of taking the last few, difficult steps toward price stability, a goal that even a few years ago they could only ponder in the abstract.
The main debate was whether to press for literal price stability -- zero inflation -- or a consistently low rate of inflation, generally defined as being between 1 percent and 3 percent.
Those arguing against a zero inflation goal said absolute price stability would be too costly a goal. Many of them cited a Brookings Institution study by George A. Akerlof, William T. Dickens and George L. Perry that concluded the costs of complete price stability would far outweigh the benefits. The core of the Brookings study's argument is that employers find it difficult to cut wages even in inflation-adjusted terms, and the problem would be exacerbated in a period of zero inflation. Unable to cut wages in a zero-inflation environment, companies that encountered problems would have to respond by cutting employment or limiting hiring.
"Our best estimate of the cost of lowering inflation from 3 percent to zero is an increase in unemployment of between 1 percent and 3 percent," the Brookings study said. "Plausible estimates of the benefits of zero inflation are certainly less than the unemployment costs of zero inflation we have documented."
Critics of a zero inflation target also argued that absolute price stability would make it more difficult to use monetary policy to stimulate an economy, because it would effectively be impossible to have negative real interest rates -- that is, interest rates below the inflation rate.
"The serious constraints placed on monetary policy in a zero inflation or deflationary environment have recently been evident in Japan," said Stanley Fischer, the deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund. "They constitute an important reason to target a low positive rate of inflation rather than zero."
But other participants argued in favor of pressing further toward zero inflation, if not to go all the way.
Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economics professor who was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ronald Reagan, cited research he had done showing that reducing that inflation rate to 1 percent from 3 percent would yield a one-time, permanent gain in the level of gross domestic product of 1 percent, based just on the effects of lower inflation on the consumer sector of the economy.
Although the Fed has never adopted an explicit target, Fed officials have so far tended to favor a goal in the range of 1 to 3 percent inflation, saying that rate should meet Mr. Greenspan's stated definition of price stability: the point at which people and companies "no longer take account of the prospective change in the general price level in their economic decision making."
The Fed has also begun to join an international debate over whether central banks benefit by adopting public inflation targets, as countries including Britain, New Zealand, Canada, Australia and Sweden have. New Zealand's central bank, for example, has to explain to the government and the public if it misses its target of less than 2 percent inflation.
In the United States, legislation introduced by Senator Connie Mack, a Florida Republican, would require the Fed to adopt a numerical inflation target.
"Once there is an explicit numerical inflation target for monetary policy, and a transparent framework for making policy and holding policymakers accountable for their actions, it is not possible to overlook the potential inflationary consequences of monetary expansion undertaken for short-term countercyclical purposes," Mr. Fischer of the I.M.F. said. "Nor, if the inflation target is taken seriously, is it possible to miss the beginnings of a process in which inflation creeps up from cycle to cycle, as it did in many of the industrialized countries from the 1950's through the 1980's." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY CENTRAL BANKS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); DEFLATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); EURO (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



68 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Auto Workers Union Close to Choice for Final Talks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 2

 BODY:
After a week of intense negotiations with General Motors and Ford Motor, the United Automobile Workers union is on the verge of choosing one of them for a final round of talks aimed at producing a national labor contract that the union would try to apply across the industry, union officials said today.
The U.A.W. is likely to pick Ford as early as Tuesday unless G.M. improves it contact offer immediately, people close to the union said. 
 Richard Shoemaker, the U.A.W. vice president for G.M. issues, told several reporters at a Labor Day parade here today that "there hasn't been a lot of difference in the status" of the negotiations over the last couple weeks. Mr. Shoemaker said that he had not been actively negotiating today or on Sunday, a possible indication that talks with G.M. were not going quickly.
While Mr. Shoemaker refused to elaborate, people close to the union said privately that the U.A.W. had been hoping for a week that G.M. would improve its last offer, but G.M. appears not to have done so.
Ernest Lofton, the U.A.W. vice president for Ford issues, said that the choice between Ford and G.M. had to be made this week. "It's got to happen soon, because the contract is expiring on the 14th" of September, Mr. Lofton said. The national labor contracts at G.M., Ford and the Chrysler Corporation all expire at midnight on Sept. 14, which is a Saturday.
Mr. Lofton had to speak loudly to be heard over the U.A.W. workers driving by and beeping the horns of Big Three cars and trucks decorated with placards like "Be American, Buy American." The union-led parade took three hours to pass a viewing stand here, partly because of hundred-yard gaps between some of the contingents. U.A.W. members accounted for the last two hours of marchers and drivers.
The U.A.W., which represents close to 400,000 automotive workers, traditionally reaches a three-year contract with whichever auto maker expresses the greatest willingness to meet its demands, and then insists that the other two auto makers agree to the same terms.
In a conference call on Aug. 26, the U.A.W.'s board decided to leave Chrysler until later this autumn and negotiate with both G.M. and Ford for a while longer. On at least two previous occasions, in 1970 and 1990, the U.A.W. negotiated for a while with G.M. and Ford before choosing G.M. in each case for the final round of talks.
Job security is the union's main issue in this year's labor negotiations. G.M. in particular has been selling auto parts factories and buying more parts from nonunion suppliers in a bid to lower costs.
Mr. Lofton said that Ford was more likely than G.M. to come up with an innovative approach to preserving jobs. "Our history with Ford has been one where when we need to get a principle established, we've gone to Ford," Mr. Lofton told several reporters. "This year we have a principle, and that principle is job security."
Charles C. Licari, a G.M. spokesman, said today that the company still wanted to be picked by the U.A.W. "We're obviously going to continue talking; we've had dialogue all along," Mr. Licari said. "Our position all along is that we would welcome the opportunity to be the lead company."
Ford is also ready and willing to go first in U.A.W. negotiations, said Jon F. Harmon, a Ford spokesman.
People close to the union said last week that the national leadership was reluctant to pick G.M. first for fear that a strike there would hurt President Clinton's re-election prospects. Stephen P. Yokich, the U.A.W.'s president, refused to discuss today the political implications of the continuing negotiations.
Mr. Yokich also noted that all of the Big Three auto makers had been posting large profits and amassing large cash reserves.
Auto executives have noted that their combined profits of $29.4 billion over the last three years remain lower as a percentage of their sales than profits in most manufacturing industries. Auto industry officials have also contended that their cash reserves, which reached a combined total of $37 billion at the end of the second quarter, are intended as a cushion for whenever another recession arrives, and should not be disbursed through larger dividends to shareholders or higher wages for workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); US LABOR DAY (75%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ERNEST LOFTON (76%); RICHARD SHOEMAKER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



69 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Junta Says Democracy Leader Aids Subversion

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: YANGON, Myanmar, Sept. 2

 BODY:
 The military Government today accused the leader of the democratic opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, of collaborating with subversives, including American citizens. Steps will be taken against her "if and when required," officials of the junta said.
Addressing foreign reporters for the first time since they released Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi from house arrest 13 months ago, a panel of high-ranking officials accused her of having secret contacts with illegal groups abroad that were trying to overthrow the Government, coordinating activities with them and accepting subversive materials from them. 
 The officials dismissed as unimportant a threat by the United States to impose economic sanctions against Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, if strong measures were taken against Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi or her followers.
"That's not the concern of our country, but of the United States citizens," said the Foreign Minister, U Ohn Gyaw.
Today's news conference was a departure for the secretive military leadership, which has until now left the public relations field open to the articulate and charismatic opposition leader, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 for her defiance of them.
A newly formed five-member information committee of military officers and ministers gave little ground as they faced sometimes harsh questions about their Government's record on human rights and the limitations it places on personal freedoms.
Col. Kyaw Thein, a high-ranking military intelligence official, identified three Americans who he said had conducted workshops in "political defiance" for insurgents and expatriate groups in Thailand and India.
He said they had been teaching "techniques of civil disobedience, civil unrest and political education and sedition." He said he did not know whether these involved violent or nonviolent activities, but he said underground Burmese groups were actively working to topple the Government.
"Suu Kyi and her party, knowing full well that what these people are doing is unlawful, have held negotiations, discussions and consultations and have cooperated with them in their activities," the colonel said, "sometimes openly and sometimes through secret contacts, and have been a party to the transgressions of these people."
Asked if the Government was planning to take action against Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, he said, "Necessary or appropriate measures will be taken if and when required."
Colonel Kyaw Thein said the subversive materials she had received included an outline for creating a parallel government as well as a videotape of the movie "Beyond Rangoon," which depicts the terror and bloodshed of the military crackdown in 1988 against a widespread pro-democracy uprising.
He asserted that continuing arrests of her supporters -- which Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi described at her own news conference on Saturday -- were connected to these foreign-based subversive activities. He said 20 to 30 people were still being held from a roundup of more than 250 of her supporters in May; Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi said 61 more people had been arrested since that time.
Democratic freedoms including political opposition can cause instability, Colonel Kyaw Thein said, and must be put on hold while Myanmar focuses on economic progress.
"What happened in 1988 started with just a simple demonstration and reached to nearly utter devastation of our country," he said. "We have learned that lesson, and we don't want these things to come up again. Sometimes, with the pretense of human rights and democracy, things can go bad for our country. We cannot allow this to happen."
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's political party, the National League for Democracy, won 85 percent of the seats in Parliament in a free election in 1990. Caught off guard by the results, the military leadership refused to convene the newly elected Parliament and instead created a convention to draw up a new constitution. The convention has been in an extended recess since April.
Colonel Kyaw Thein said the convention had completed the bulk of its work, but he would not say when it might reconvene and said no date had been set for the completion of the constitution or for the new elections that the junta has promised.
Last November, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party withdrew from the constitutional convention, saying it was clear that the document would not represent the interests of the people. In May she announced that her party would draw up its own draft constitution, an act the Government declared would be illegal.
Reports about the work of the constitutional convention suggest that it will enshrine a continued dominant role for the military and may ban people who are married to foreigners from holding Government office. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi is married to a British professor, Michael Aris.
Colonel Kyaw Thein said the "subversive activities" of the Americans -- including one former member of the United States Embassy here -- constituted "an outright infringement of our sovereignty." But Mr. Ohn Gyaw said no protest had been lodged with the American Government because no Burmese citizen had made a formal complaint with the police.
Colonel Kyaw Thein said, "These aliens and mercenaries are trying to create chaos and confusion in Myanmar in order to destabilize the situation in the country on the one hand, while lining their pockets and getting rich from donations they obtain on the pretext of working for a good cause."
Coffee and cake were served after the news conference, which was billed as a monthly briefing, and the atmosphere was cordial despite the Government's frequent attacks on the Western press in the past and the sometimes sharp questioning today.
At one point, a reporter asked whether the military leaders were prepared to face trial under a future democratic government, recalling the recent death sentence handed down in South Korea to former President Chun Doo Hwan for his role in a massacre of demonstrators in Kwangju.
"I think your question is not relevant either at this grouping or as a matter of your personal speculation," Mr. Ohn Gyaw said. "I don't need to answer it."
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MYANMAR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); RIOTS (63%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



70 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Back to Work, to Markets Fearful of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
As summer vacation wound down last week, it appeared that stocks and interest rates would end up little changed from where they were last spring, when schools closed and camper vans were being loaded.
But on Thursday and Friday stocks tumbled and rates soared, providing a painful reminder of just how volatile financial markets have been this summer. And the road ahead could be just as rocky. 
 This Friday's employment report for August, if it is strong, could send stocks down again and interest rates higher yet as the bond market concludes that Federal Reserve policy makers will approve a restraining dose of higher short-term rates when they meet on Sept. 24.
The plunge in the stock market and the surge in interest rates in July were set off by fears of an interest-rate increase by the Fed. And although the Fed policy makers held off at their August meeting, their inclination now seems toward raising short-term rates in hope of insuring that the economy -- which grew at a brisk 4.8 percent pace in the second quarter -- slows down.
But the market turmoil in July may have given the Fed a reason to pause. The Dow industrials fell 7.5 percent from the record high, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 7.6 percent and the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index plunged 16.6 percent. Interest rates soared, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond jumping to 7.18 percent.
On July 15, the Dow dived nearly 162 points. On Tuesday, the Dow was off 166 points before a stunning recovery that left it up 9 points for the day. And more money was taken out of stock mutual funds in search of safer harbors in July than at any other time since the market collapse of October 1987.
Analysts may be able to pinpoint the why of what summer idlers missed. But on the issue of what is to come, market-watchers are sharply divided.
Maureen Allyn, chief economist at Scudder, Stevens & Clark, said she believed that the Fed would not have to raise interest rates because they had already climbed so much since the beginning of the year. A lack of Fed action, she said, would provide some support for equities at a time when earnings growth was slowing.
But Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, still expects the Dow to stumble into a 1,000-point slide soon. "The labor report for August will be strong," he said, "interest rates will move above 7 percent, and the stock market will become vulnerable again." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); APPROVALS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



71 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
Agency Had Evidence of Abuse
The Commissioner of the city's Administration for Children's Services acknowledged that evidence of neglect was found 15 months ago at the home of Nadine Lockwood, the 4-year-old whose mother is accused of starving her to death. But he said that after an initial review of records he could not explain what action was taken, if any, by city social workers. The case is certain to train new attention on the child-welfare bureaucracy, which Mayor Giuliani took steps to restructure in January, after 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo was beaten to death by her mother last year. [Page A1.]
 
Only hours before the 4-year-old's body was found in her mother's apartment, the head of the city's child welfare agency announced the dismissal of a caseworker. [B4.]
 
A Caribbean Beat in Brooklyn
Hundreds of thousands of people danced in the streets of Brooklyn in the West Indian-American Day parade, a 29-year-old tradition that has emerged as the largest parade in New York City. [B3.]
 
Hardly the Finest Web Site
In the boundless new world of cyberspace, linguists can study Yiddish and vacationers can book safaris. But the pickings are still pretty thin for police buffs looking for N.Y.P.D. Blue. The department's one stop on the Internet is Finestnet, and so far it is more of a pothole on the Information Superhighway. [B3.]
 
The prosecutor leading the investigation into the fatal stabbing of a Hasidic scholar during racial violence in Crown Heights in 1991 says the possibility is becoming "more and more remote" that additional people will be charged in the killing besides the two men indicted. [B3.]
 
Dr. Howard A. Grossman had hoped to be a geriatrician before his plans, like those in so many in the community he wanted to serve, were overtaken by the AIDS epidemic. But as AIDS patients improve, their doctors are daring to look ahead again. [D9.]
 
REGION
 
Bill May Spur Jobs Battle
A little-noticed bill approved by the State Legislature would take away some of Mayor Giuliani's authority over economic development and give it to the five borough presidents. It raises the unusual prospect of the boroughs competing against one another -- and against City Hall -- for jobs by offering ever-larger incentives to private businesses. The bill would set up an Industrial Development Agency in each borough that would be empowered to grant millions of dollars in inducements to companies in an effort to persuade them to create or retain jobs. [B1.]
 
The State Animal as a Nuisance
The residents of Sylvia Lake in Oxbow blew up a beaver dam this summer, but dynamite proved no match for America's most industrious rodent. Within four days the beavers had rebuilt their dam, stopping up a crucial outlet and raising Sylvia Lake to problem levels once again. The beaver, New York's official state animal, has become a serious New York nuisance, at least in the view of many farmers. [B1.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
Bradley Looks Ahead
It was Senator Bill Bradley's final trek up the Jersey Shore this Labor Day weekend. And as he trudged through the sand, and strolled along the boardwalk, over and over again people rose from their towels and beach chairs to bid farewell to the senior Senator from New Jersey and urge him to remain on the political scene. But Mr. Bradley is still uncertain about what he will do next. [B1.]
 
Tough Times After Boot Camp
During his four months at New Jersey's new boot-camp prison for nonviolent juvenile offenders, Nelson Colon adapted to the rigors of military life with little difficulty. He says it was a lot easier than what he faces now. He is back in his old neighborhood, trying to stay away from old friends and old ways. Criminal-justice experts say his fears are warranted. Recent studies show there is little difference between the recidivism rates of those who complete boot camp programs and those who do not. Yet despite skepticism over recidivism rates, boot camps have become increasingly popular. [B1.]
 
CONNECTICUT
 
Trouble for Millstone 3
Unit 3 was supposed to have been the good reactor at the Millstone Nuclear Power Station in Waterford. When the Nuclear Regulatory Commission put all three reactors on Millstone Point on its "watch" list in January, the managers of Unit 3 insisted that it was guilty only by association with the troubled Units 1 and 2. But six months after Unit 3 closed for repairs, Federal regulators have found that the management had been more concerned about keeping the costly plant in operation than about enforcing safety standards. [B5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (87%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); MAYORS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); RODENTS (83%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); STARVATION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); RACE & RACISM (67%); AIDS & HIV (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (64%); GERIATRICS (62%); EPIDEMICS (61%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



72 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Dip in Income Of Doctors

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2

 BODY:
After climbing for years, physicians' earnings have now dropped, in large part because managed care has worked to control costs, a new study has found.
The authors researched medical doctors' 1994 incomes and found that they averaged $187,000. That figure still made physicians among the highest-paid workers in America but was 4 percent less than the average from the year before, according to the study, published in the journal Health Affairs. 
 "This is a remarkable turnaround," said one author, Carol Simon, an economics professor at the University of Illinois. "This is the first time we've seen a reduction in take-home pay" for doctors since such statistics were first compiled, in 1982. In the ensuing 12 years covered by the research, doctors' incomes rose at an annual rate of nearly 6 percent, 2.2 percent after inflation.
During the intervening period, managed care assumed a growing role in American health care. In 1995, more than 83 percent of all physicians had at least one managed care contract, up from 61 percent in 1990 and 43 percent in 1986. And the study found that doctors in states with the highest penetration of managed care, like California and Massachusetts, reported larger declines in earnings than did doctors in other states.
But managed care cannot account for the decline completely, said Donald White, spokesman for the American Association of Health Plans, which represents about 1,000 managed care plans.
"This is a structural change that we're seeing in health care," Mr. White said. "For many years we were used to having the premiums go up in double digits every single year, and part of that translated to increased income for physicians. Employers in the last several years have started demanding that they receive value for the premium dollars they spend."
The study itself noted factors other than managed care in doctors' dwindling income, including diminished Medicare reimbursements, sharply reduced Medicaid payments in many states and a trend toward doctors' working in group practices, where they work fewer hours but earn less money.
The study found that the income of specialists, like those in general surgery, psychiatry and gynecology, had dropped the most from 1993 to 1994: 5.3 percent, to $179,072 from $189,121. Managed care pressures primary-care physicians to minimize expensive specialist care, although Mr. White argued that specialist salaries had dropped simply because there were too many specialists in the market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH AFFAIRS (JOURNAL) AMERICAN HEALTH CARE CENTERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AFFAIRS (JOURNAL)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); TRENDS (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); PSYCHIATRY (73%); MEDICAID (73%); MEDICARE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD WHITE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



73 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: After Youth Boot Camp Comes a Harder Discipline

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Aug. 29

 BODY:
Nelson Colon misses waking up to the blast of reveille. He sometimes yearns for those 16-hour days filled with military drills and nine-mile runs. He even thinks fondly of the surly drill instructors who shouted in his face.
During his four months at New Jersey's new boot camp prison for nonviolent juvenile offenders, Mr. Colon adapted to the rigors of military life with little difficulty. He says it was a lot easier than what he faces now. He is back in his old neighborhood, trying to stay away from old friends and old ways. 
 So far, Mr. Colon, 18, has managed to stay out of trouble since he graduated with the boot camp's first class of 20 cadets in June. Yet each day, he said, he fears he will be pulled back onto the corner, only two blocks away, where he was first arrested for selling drugs at age 15.
Criminal-justice experts say Mr. Colon's fears are warranted. Recent studies show there is little difference between the recidivism rates of those who complete boot camp programs and those who do not. The only offenders who seem to benefit substantially from boot camp, the experts said, are those who receive intensive counseling and drug treatment in camp and in transitional programs after they leave.
"There were no differences between people who had gone to the boot camp and other offenders who had spent time on probation or longer time in prison," said Doris L. MacKenzie, a criminologist at the University of Maryland who has studied boot camp programs. "We found some indication that offenders did better in programs where there was at least three hours or more of therapeutic treatment, like education, counseling, drug treatment, and there was some kind of transitional or intensive supervision that followed."
Yet despite skepticism over recidivism rates, boot camps have become increasingly popular, in part because they save money. Convicted criminals spend less time in boot camps than in traditional prisons, freeing up jail cells.
Twenty-one states now operate boot camps for juvenile offenders. And 37 run similar programs for adult inmates, including New York, which directs one of the nation's largest and most highly regarded boot camp programs, one that has 1,500 adult inmates on any given day.
New York correctional officials said the state's recidivism rate among boot camp graduates was better than the national average. Repeat offenders total 14 percent, compared with 20 percent among those who served prison sentences for similar crimes, correctional officials said.
New Jersey opened the $3 million Wharton Tract Juvenile Boot Camp in a rural section of Burlington County this February with "cadets" ranging in age from 14 to 19. All had been serving time at the New Jersey Training School for Boys in Jamesburg for offenses that included stealing cars, burglary and selling drugs.
"We just laid around there," said Mr. Colon, who volunteered for the boot camp program while serving his sentence for selling drugs. "There were a lot of fights. Camden would always stick together and fight Paterson or Newark. It was a place where nobody cared about you, so you didn't care about nobody. The boot camp was different. The drill instructors knew us. They treated us a whole lot better. They taught us a lot of stuff, like they taught us never to doubt yourself."
The boot camp is part of the Whitman administration's efforts to overhaul the state's juvenile justice system after a surge in juvenile crime and a study that found that fewer than 2 percent of young people arrested in New Jersey went to jail. Instead of several state agencies overseeing juvenile delinquents, a Juvenile Justice Commission was created to assume responsibility for the care of juvenile offenders.
Paul Donnelly, executive director of the commission, says educational and counseling programs have been expanded at the boot camp since February. "The military piece allows us to get their attention really quickly," he said. "But what we do in terms of counseling and teaching life skills and confronting some of the negative behavior in these kids is really key."
Perhaps the most important component, he said, is the "stabilization and reintegration" program after boot camp graduation. It includes intensive supervision for up to 18 months and some help getting back into school and finding a job.
Even with that support, 11 of the 51 cadets who graduated from New Jersey's three boot camp classes in June are back in jail. Another two are missing.
A 10 P.M. curfew helps keep Mr. Colon off the streets. His parole officer checks in with him almost daily, sometimes stopping by at 11 to make sure he is inside. He is enrolling in September in night classes to help him earn his high school equivalency certificate, and he plans on attending Narcotics Anonymous meetings.
His biggest problems are the same ones that tens of thousands of Camden residents face daily. Camden's unemployment rate exceeds 20 percent. There are few jobs, particularly for young men who have dropped out of high school. Mr. Colon has found work as a stock clerk at a sneaker store, but it is miles away at a shopping center on a busy highway, and he has no transportation there. Buses do not run regularly, so he depends on friends and his family, and sometimes even his parole officer, to give him a ride.
Selling drugs paid a lot more than stacking shoe boxes, and did not require commuting. Mr. Colon says he pushes those thoughts of easy money away and tries to remember what the boot camp's drill instructors told him over and over again.
"They tried to prepare us," Mr. Colon said, as he sat in the tiny living room of his cousin's one-bedroom apartment, where he is now living. "They used to tell us, 'It is on you.' You have to have self-accountability. You have to be reliable for your own actions, not because some person wanted you to do it. They taught us not to follow, to lead. That was one of the most important things."
Ino Dones, Jr., Mr. Colon's parole officer, says he has noticed a significant change in Mr. Colon's attitude since they first met in 1993 after Mr. Colon's arrest for selling drugs. Mr. Colon was a handful then. He ran away from various residential homes for juvenile offenders and violated the terms of his probation more than once. He ended up in prison after he was rearrested for selling drugs on the same corner.
"Nelson always did things on a whim," Mr. Dones said. "He would always act first, and think of his actions later. This time out, he seems to be more responsible. He is more focused. He has more direction. He just doesn't want to go down that dark road again."
Mr. Dones, who is supervising all the boot camp graduates in the Camden area, says he thinks the discipline imposed on the young offenders helps. "It appears to be working," he said, "but it is too early to tell."
Mr. Colon said his immediate goal was to find a job that he could get to more easily, and then save enough to get as far away from Camden as possible. "I want to get out of here," he said. "The people's mentality here is real petty. Life isn't nothing to them. The other night, they killed one of the guys I grew up with. They shot him a couple of times. My old friends came around and knocked on my door at 1 o'clock in the morning to tell me." He said it was his eighth childhood friend to die.
As soon as he finishes his parole, Mr. Colon said, he plans on returning to the strict regimen and discipline of military life.
"I really want to marry my girl and join the service," he said. "In 10 years, I will probably still be in the military. I am planning on making a career out of it. I want to make a high rank. They give you a lot of help for your kids if you put in so much time.
"Then maybe after I leave there, I might want to be a drill instructor at the boot camp. Hopefully. If everything clicks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nelson Colon, back in Camden, said: "They tried to prepare us." (Tim Shaffer for the New York Times)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: WHARTON TRACT JUVENILE CAMP (CAMDEN, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: WHARTON TRACT JUVENILE CAMP (CAMDEN, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (90%); RUNNING (89%); RECIDIVISM RATES (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (76%); JUVENILE CRIME (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BURGLARY (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); VEHICLE THEFT (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); MILITARY TRAINING (58%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; COLON, NELSON NELSON COLON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



74 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Kemp Tries to Rein In His Words

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: FLINT, Mich., Sept. 2

 BODY:
At a rally last week in Costa Mesa, Calif., Jack Kemp was supposed to speak for seven minutes. Aides clocked him at 22, and counted themselves lucky he did not go on longer.
At an event in Vashon Island, Wash., a few days earlier, Mr. Kemp began his remarks talking with pride about being a dad. But he ended by discussing Shogun warriors and the Holy Roman Empire. 
 His style was hardly a secret coming into this campaign. When Mr. Kemp sought the Republican Presidential nomination in 1988, he exasperated advisers with his run-on speeches and runaway references to arcane historical figures and abstruse economic theories. And as Mr. Kemp, the Republican Vice-Presidential candidate, traveled today from St. Louis to this industrial city in southeast Michigan, he continued a high-wire walk.
Most of the time, he keeps his balance. But people who have watched Mr. Kemp's career say it is not an easy feat.
"He's an ebullient character, but he's now in an environment where everything has to be tightly scripted," said John Mueller, a financial forecaster in Washington who worked as an economic adviser to Mr. Kemp from 1979 to 1988, the year that Mr. Kemp left Congress. "His natural style is at odds with that."
One of the people most aware of this is Mr. Kemp, who digresses in speeches to talk about his loquaciousness, and in an interview a week ago, he confessed to having trouble with the structure and scrutiny of a national political campaign.
"I've been out saving Western Judeo-Christian civilization for the last four or five years," Mr. Kemp said, referring to the public speaking he has done on behalf of Empower America, a conservative advocacy group, since the end of his tenure as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in 1992. "I've been a kind of a wildcatter. I've been able to say anything I wanted."
Now, Mr. Kemp added, he must weigh his words and actions more carefully. "I've got to stop throwing footballs," he said, "and stop hugging old teammates of mine."
But he has not put a lid on his enthusiasms. For example, although he has repeatedly told reporters that he must shove his former sports career to the sidelines, it remains on the field.
He continues to introduce his wife, Joanne, as the only woman in the world to marry one professional quarterback, then give birth to and raise two others. His tossing of footballs at rallies remains so common that one senior adviser recently quipped, "Good thing he wasn't a javelin thrower."
Mr. Kemp also has a tendency to hurl big words. In 1988, his aides hounded him about keeping his remarks simple and short.
"Jack would nod his head obediently and behave for a speech or two," Ed Rollins, Mr. Kemp's campaign chairman at the time, wrote in a new book, "Bare Knuckles and Back Rooms." "Then it was back to mumbo-jumbo like the gold standard, Malthusian theory, baskets of commodities, T-bill rates, Hannah Arendt, and Maimonides."
Mr. Kemp has hardly unleashed a torrent like that on this campaign. But with each stop, he comes closer, as words like "Darwinian" and "Hegelian" creep into his addresses and interviews.
In Great Falls, Mont., on Sunday, he lapsed into arithmetic as he sought to prove an economic point. He also came close to fulfilling the expectation that at some point, he would contradict his partner on the Republican ticket, Bob Dole, with whom he often sparred in the past. Speaking of the Clinton Administration, Mr. Kemp said: "They raised taxes -- the biggest increase, I guess, of this century. Bob calls it the biggest in the history of the world. I don't know that I have such a historical perspective as Bob Dole. But it was an awfully big tax increase."
Aides to the Dole-Kemp campaign may not be helping matters by staging many of Mr. Kemp's campaign appearances, like the ones in Phoenix and Great Falls, as informal question-and-answer sessions that encourage Mr. Kemp to break the tether of a script after just 10 or 15 minutes.
The goal is to showcase Mr. Kemp as an informal guy who can rub shoulders comfortably with average Americans. And although the aides concede that Mr. Kemp could benefit by keeping his comments shorter and sweeter, they say they believe that his charisma and palpable concern nonetheless win over audiences.
"I think he's a great speaker, because it's not planned," Kevin McKay, a 31-year-old lawyer, said today after hearing Mr. Kemp talk at a rally in Flint. "He ad libs, so you know it comes from his heart."
Campaign spokesmen give Mr. Kemp particularly high marks for the zest with which he has taken on his role as missionary to the poor, minorities and other groups that have traditionally deemed the Republican Party aloof and uncaring, and turned for succor to Democrats instead.
"He brings this energy and this willingness to reach out to new voters that's a real asset," says David M. Carney, a senior adviser to the Dole-Kemp campaign who is traveling with Mr. Kemp. "Not many politicians would be as comfortable or confident as he is doing that."
These qualities are apparent both onstage and off.
When he signed his autograph for a 12-year-old girl in Santa Barbara, Calif., he drew a big heart with an arrow through it next to his name. Talking to poor children in Los Angeles, the former football quarterback explained that the ring on his right hand signified his place in the Buffalo Bills Hall of Fame, then added, "O. J. has one, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp, the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee, tossed an autographed football yesterday at a campaign rally in St. Louis. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ATHLETES (84%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HISTORY (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CITIES (69%); SPORTS (50%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; KEMP, JACK F JOHN MUELLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



75 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BOB DOLE
Speaking yesterday at his campaign kickoff rally in St. Louis:
 
 "We're going to be the administration that trusts you, the administration that you can trust. When you think about the word 'trust,' keep in mind the phrase President Reagan used when he was dealing with the old Soviet Union: trust but verify. Remember 'trust but verify'?
"That's not a bad way to approach this election. Don't just trust a candidate; take the time to verify by looking at his record. Does he honor his commitments? Does he tell the truth? Does he say what he means? Does he say what he means? Does he keep his word? . . .
"My opponent says he wants to be a bridge to the future. But as Jack has said, he's a toll bridge. You pay every inch of the way, every step of the way. You pay and you pay and you pay. . . .
"That's what we're afraid of, because he would be a bridge to the future of higher taxes, more teen-agers using drugs, a Government-run health care system, more liberal judges, America defenseless against incoming ballistic missiles, an economy producing too few jobs, and on and on and on, with more Government and more Government in our lives every day and every day and every day.
"We're going to be a bridge to lower taxes, fewer teen-agers using drugs, an America able to defend itself. We're going to be proud of the military again. And if it ever becomes necessary to send troops around the world, someone to protect our liberty and freedom, I will make that decision and not Boutros Boutros-Ghali of the United Nations."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST LOUIS (MO); UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); JUDGES (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



76 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: Bedeviled by Beavers In Rural New York;
Official State Animal, It Seems, Is an Annoying Overachiever

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: OXBOW, N.Y.

 BODY:
The residents of Sylvia Lake blew up a beaver dam this summer, but dynamite proved no match for America's most industrious rodent. Within four days the beavers had rebuilt their dam, stopping up a crucial outlet and raising Sylvia Lake to problem levels once again. On the Fourth of July, people barbecued on docks under six inches of water.
"You come out here, you want to cook your dinner, and you take your shoes off," said Gale Ferguson, a commercial printer who in nearly five decades on Sylvia Lake had never seen the water so high. Branding beavers as "the enemy," Mr. Ferguson sounded an ominous call. "We've played their game for five years," he said. "Now that they're winning, we have to get serious." 
 The beaver, New York's official state animal, has become a serious New York nuisance, at least in the view of many farmers and owners of low-lying property. Nearly wiped out by trapping and farming in the 19th century, beavers have come back -- to New York and to much of the rest of the United States, particularly the Northeast, Southeast and upper Midwest.
Like deer and geese, beavers are proliferating beyond levels that many people find tolerable. In 1975 in New York, the State Department of Conservation reported an estimated beaver population of 25,000, and 500 public complaints about them. By 1995, there were 81,000 beavers and 2,000 complaints. The most serious grievances came from highway departments about beaver-flooded roads and farmers who blamed beavers for turning fields into wetlands.
This year, the problem made its way to the Legislature in Albany -- once called Beverwyck, Dutch for "town of the beaver," when it was a center of the fur trade. A bill sponsored by Assemblyman Michael J. Bragman, a Democrat from Syracuse, would have streamlined trapping regulations and allowed use of a more efficient snare trap that kills by strangulation. But the bill was attacked by animal-rights and environmental groups and never got to a vote.
"They came after us like you wouldn't believe," said Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Mr. Bragman. "It was 'Bragman the Butcher.' " Mr. Dopp said his office would introduce beaver-control legislation next year.
Environmentalists counter that only a small percentage of beavers cause property damage, and that the real problem is not beavers but humans who encroach on the beavers' natural habitat. Beavers, they say, are simply doing the important work that nature intended -- in this case re-establishing the rich, vital wetlands that covered huge tracts of America before settlers moved in centuries ago.
"Beavers expand to fill their habitat," said Sharon Brown, the director of Beavers: Wetlands and Wildlife, a pro-beaver group based in Fulton County. "Most of the time time we're better off working with them than against them."
Surrounded, and Swamped
No one better illustrates the gray areas of the beaver debate -- and the physical and psychological toll of warring against them -- than Richard Foster, a retired gym teacher who lives on 300 low-lying acres near the Canadian border in St. Lawrence County, the beaver capital of New York State. Mr. Foster, 60, likes to build houses for the wood ducks and hooded mergansers that nest on his land. He shoots a few deer a year, and keeps the venison to eat. For much of his life he has also caught beavers, chiefly to sell their pelts at fur markets in Canada.
But in the last decade, as the beavers have multiplied around him, Mr. Foster has moved from economic to defensive trapping. He said beavers gnawed bark from the trunks of 15 of his huge red oaks, killing them. Beavers have also destroyed 20 percent of the 5,000 spruce trees that Mr. Foster planted three decades ago.
If he let the beavers have their way, he said, 80 acres that he uses for hiking and cross-country skiing would be under water. So Mr. Foster traps more and more, or aims with his rifle.
"It gets to your head after a while," Mr. Foster said near his End-of-the-Road Farm the other day. "You feel like an executioner. A beautiful animal swims up. He's trusting everything. And bang, you blow his brains out. And you do it over and over and over."
Five years ago, tired of the killing, Mr. Foster sat down in the living room of his 19th-century stone farmhouse with his wife and five children. "I said, 'Why don't we just say the hell with it,' " Mr. Foster said. " 'Let them take over.' " But his children, who will inherit the property, said no.
Mr. Foster met this spring with Mr. Bragman to push for passage of the beaver legislation. Mr. Foster also keeps manila folders with painstaking records of his "beaver harvest" -- 39 beavers in 1995, about 500 in his lifetime. He stores some.
"I don't have any food in my freezer, you understand," said Mr. Foster's wife, Sandra. "I have beaver pelts." (Forty, at last count.)
Mr. Foster traps beavers with a device that instantly crushes their skulls. A more common trap holds beavers underwater and kills them by drowning. Seizing beavers is legal with a license from the Department of Conservation during a limited trapping season, or year-round with a permit for beavers deemed nuisances.
The department is responsible for beaver management in New York, and has been liberal in recent years in allowing trapping of a population that it recognizes for good things as well as bad. "I would say beaver is one of the more complex wildlife management problems out there today," said Gordon Batcheller, a department wildlife biologist.
Everyone involved in the issue also agrees that many property owners ignore the state regulations and kill beavers whenever they want.
Over the years, Mr. Foster has learned to disassemble a beaver dam in no time at all -- so fast, in fact, that last week he impressed Mr. Ferguson over at Sylvia Lake. The two got together because Mr. Foster took a reporter over to meet Mr. Ferguson, who then led the small party into the Sylvia Lake outlet where the beaver dam had been dynamited earlier this summer.
When the party reached the site, the beavers had the dam in full working order, even though members of the Sylvia Lake Beaver Patrol -- six adults and five teen-agers -- have gone in and taken the dam apart by hand every other day since the explosion. The patrol works in T-shirts (each depicting a beaver in a circle with a slash through it), hip boots, shorts and rubber gloves.
Mr. Ferguson gave an interview on the banks of the outlet while Mr. Foster, as if propelled by instinct, began taking apart the sticks and mud that made up the dam.
This pleased Mr. Ferguson. "If nothing else, I'll get Dick to pull apart my beaver dam," he said, watching with interest. "This is an honor, to have 'Mr. Beaver' do my dam."
Mr. Foster had the dam apart and the water flowing in minutes, although Mr. Foster and Mr. Ferguson both acknowledged that the beavers would probably rebuild overnight.
"Beavers have no social life," Mr. Ferguson sighed. "They had 24 hours a day to do this. They're near impossible to keep up with."
Beavers dam up water for safety and transportation. Typically, a beaver first builds a lodge of mud and sticks on the banks of a small stream. Then it builds a dam, a well-known marvel of engineering, on average 75 feet long and five to seven feet high. The dam creates a pond -- and protection from predators -- around the lodge, which has an underwater entrance.
A beaver then gnaws through huge trees, an important food source, and easily floats the trunks across the pond to be stored near its home. Adult beavers, weighing as much as 60 pounds, are clumsy on land but graceful in water.
Sociable Rodents, to a Point
Ms. Brown of the pro-beaver group describes the mammals as sociable creatures that are easily tamed. "They all have their own temperaments," she said.
She recalled Dorothy Richards, a conservationist in Fulton County known as the Beaver Woman who created a wildlife sanctuary called Beaversprite. "Dorothy had a 50-pound beaver that would sit in her lap every day," Ms. Brown said. "Very affectionate. She called him a lap beaver."
Like other environmentalists, Ms. Brown promotes education about the benefits of beavers and the use of equipment like tubes and grates that permit water to flow through beaver dams, minimizing their effect. But Mr. Foster, for one, said the tubes would not work in the dams that beavers build on his End-of-the-Road farm.
Ms. Brown, who knows Mr. Foster through the ongoing New York beaver debate, acknowledges his problem. "As I understand it, he does live in some excellent beaver habit," she said. "That could be the best use for his land."
As Mr. Foster and Ms. Brown debate, and as beavers breed prodigiously in New York, demand for their pelts is high. Although 19th-century trappers sold beaver pelts to be made into soft felt for hats popular in Europe, these days the mammals are prized for the thick fur that creates coats selling for $2,000 to $8,000. Carol Wynne, the executive director of the Fur Information Council of America, said beaver was among the three most desirable furs, after mink and fox.
Trappers have had some good seasons in New York in recent years, and in 1994, they reduced beaver numbers from a high of 96,000. But trappers had a mediocre year last winter because of the heavy snow and cold, and their numbers are diminishing. There were about 30,000 people who trapped beavers in New York in 1979, but only 6,000 in 1995, Mr. Batcheller said. Many trappers are also worried about possible anti-trapping legislation in Europe that could close down important outlets for beaver pelts overseas.
With fewer trappers in an uncertain market, Mr. Batcheller of the Department of Conservation said he expected even more human-beaver conflict.
Mr. Foster, meanwhile, continues his defense of his land, even as his respect for his adversary grows.
"It's a shame beavers run into such conflict with people," he said. "Because they do what they do very, very well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Foster, above, whose farm in St. Lawrence County abounds in beavers, joined T-shirted members of the Sylvia Lake Beaver Patrol on Saturday in a futile exercise: dismantling a beaver dam. Dead trees, left, are a legacy of flooding by beavers. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of New York showing location of Sylvia Lake. (pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BEAVERS; FLOODS RODENTS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); WETLANDS (86%); MAMMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); NUISANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (56%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH RICHARD FOSTER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



77 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BILL CLINTON
Speaking to an audience in De Pere, Wis.: 
 "This is Labor Day. We can be grateful that we have over 10 million more jobs, but we know that we have to keep this recovery going. That means we have to continue to balance the budget, but to do it in a way that grows the economy and keeps us together.
"We can balance the budget without wrecking Medicare, turning our backs on the medical commitments of Medicaid, which includes families with disabilities, little babies that are poor, pregnant women and the elderly in nursing homes. We can balance the budget and increase our commitment to education and to research and to the environment, not walk away from it. Will you help us balance the budget in that way? . . .
"You know, in Washington, we have all these political consultants. And if you listen to them, they say, Don't ever go out to a Labor Day crowd of middle-class people and talk about the deficit. Nobody cares about that. . . .
"Why should you care? Because if the Government goes in and borrows money at the same time you're trying to, what will happen? Interest rates will go up. . . .What does the mean for you? A higher home mortgage payment, a higher car payment, a higher credit card payment. Even more important, what does it mean? All the small-business people in this audience, it means higher interest rates for them. It means fewer people borrowing money to invest, to create more jobs, to be more productive, to raise incomes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); MEDICAID (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); MEDICAID (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DE PERE (WIS); UNITED STATES (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); MEDICARE (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); CHILDREN (75%); JOB CREATION (72%); MEDICAID (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); AGING (55%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



78 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Trailing, Dole Vows A Touch of Truman

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Sept. 2

 BODY:
Invoking the come-from-behind victory of Harry S. Truman 48 years ago, Bob Dole opened his fall campaign today by describing this year's contest as a vivid choice between "old-style liberal vision" and a conservative vision that would roll back the Government. Mr. Dole devoted more than one-third of his speech to his promise of a tax cut.
At a hot and sweaty Labor Day kickoff rally here, with the 630-foot Gateway Arch before him and the graceful St. Louis skyline at his back, Mr. Dole framed the election as a debate over cutting taxes and reducing the size of Government. In so doing, he reminded his audience both of President Clinton's failure to implement a 1992 promise to cut taxes, and of his own campaign-signature pledge to slash taxes for businesses and individuals. 
 "This election is about two different visions of America's future," Mr. Dole said, squinting into the bright late-morning sun, his voice booming over the sound system and down to the Mississippi River.
"Our opponents offer an old-style liberal vision that puts government first," Mr. Dole continued. "And Jack Kemp and I offer an optimistic vision that puts the American people first. That's the difference. That's the key dividing line in this campaign. They believe in government, and we believe in you."
With the rally today, Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp, his running mate, were reunited for the official start of the fall campaign, using this historically high-profile moment in Presidential campaigns to set the tone for the two months ahead. In selecting St. Louis for their kickoff rally, they chose a city in the heart of an area that may become the most contested section of the country -- the Midwest.
The two men were cheered here by a large and boisterous crowd, which filled the field under the arch and straggled down to the Mississippi River. "I've never seen a crowd this big," Mr. Dole said. The compliment was one that Mr. Dole has paid to more than one audience since accepting the Republican nomination.
In coming to this city, Mr. Dole also returned to Harry Truman's home state and, in what has become a ritual for Presidential candidates in recent years, sought to identify his candidacy with that of Truman. Both President George Bush and President Clinton built their Labor Day speeches in 1992 around tributes to Truman; Mr. Clinton four years ago did Mr. Dole one better by delivering his kickoff address from the courthouse steps in Independence, Mo., Mr. Truman's hometown.
But while Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton sought to identify with Mr. Truman as the pugnacious advocate of the middle-class voter, Mr. Dole's citation of the Democratic President was more reminiscent of Michael S. Dukakis when he needed to calm supporters worried about his drift in the polls. Mr. Dole was greeted this morning with news of a series of post-convention polls that showed him still trailing Mr. Clinton by double-digit margins, and that was clearly on his mind today.
"Like Harry Truman, I represented a Midwestern state in the Senate," he said. "I was honored to serve my country in uniform. And like Truman, I'm going to win a come-from-behind victory for President of the United States. You just wait and see."
In Washington, President Clinton's political advisers offered a harsher assessment of Mr. Dole's political predicament. "No one who was ever behind double-digits in the polls on Labor Day ever went on to win, with the exception of Harry Truman," said George Stephanopoulos, one of Mr. Clinton's senior advisers.
But Mr. Kemp disagreed. "We've got them right where we want them -- overconfident and trying to run the clock out" on the century, he said after a rally in Flint, Mich., later in the day.
Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp left no question about how they intended to try to pull Mr. Clinton down: by focusing, largely but not exclusively, on Mr. Dole's $548 billion tax cut proposal. Mr. Dole's kickoff address lasted 24 minutes today, and a full nine of those minutes were devoted to the tax cut, a choice of topics that pleased the partisan audience.
"Candidate Clinton came out here in 1992, and what did he tell the crowd -- he never had a crowd this big -- but what did he tell the crowd who showed up?" Mr. Dole demanded. "He said, 'The centerpiece of my first term will be a middle-class tax cut.' What ever happened to that?"
Mr. Dole's crowd recalled Mr. Clinton's abandonment of that pledge with a chorus of boos.
"It's time to downsize the I.R.S. and upsize the amount of money Americans can keep for themselves," Mr. Dole said.
As Mr. Dole stuck uncharacteristically to the single theme, the crowd cut him off with a chant: "Go, Bob, go. Go, Bob, go."
He tried to speak over the noise, and finally stopped and smiled. "Thank you; I'll be going in a minute," he said. He did not.
In defending the economic soundness of his tax plan, which has been questioned by Democrats and some economists, Mr. Dole invoked President Ronald Reagan's first-term tax cut, which he said had produced the "longest peacetime expansion of the economy we've had."
"He gave us the largest tax cut in history, and Jack Kemp and I worked with him to get the job done," he said. Mr. Dole did not mention his subsequent role, two years into Mr. Reagan's Presidency, of shepherding through tax increases to close the deficit that had emerged.
Mr. Dole took the stage here to the boom of daytime fireworks. He stood in front of two hot-air balloons, with a blimp and police helicopters overhead. He ended his speech to the sound of a local band, Motown Review, playing the theme from "Rocky," which it adapted to a late-1970's disco beat.
In keeping with the holiday and the sweltering weather here, Mr. Kemp appeared tieless. But Mr. Dole kept his tie snug and his sports jacket buttoned. He did not appear disturbed by the heat, unlike members of his audience, who fanned each other with Dole-Kemp signs.
Whatever problems they had with the weather, Mr. Dole's audience here expressed a tenacious optimism about the ticket's chances in November. Charles Rose, 60, said polls had simply not registered what he insisted was the Dole surge.
"They're coming on, they're coming on," Mr. Rose said. "Dole will be the next President."
Jennifer Cole, 18, expressed the same sentiment, though more as a wish than as a true conviction. "I'm hoping," she said. "I'm praying."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Dole and Jack Kemp kicked off their fall campaign in St. Louis yesterday, and a lively crowd was there to help. Ella LaPlante, far left, and Mary Caisley, with her fist in the air, were among those showing their spirit. (Associated Press)(pg. D10); Bob Dole held a Labor Day rally in St. Louis. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST LOUIS (MO); UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; LABOR DAY LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US LABOR DAY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F; DOLE, BOB; TRUMAN, HARRY S (1884-1972); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



79 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Advance After U.N. Delays Iraq's Entry in the Market

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 2

 BODY:
Oil prices advanced strongly today after the United Nations delayed letting Iraq sell oil again. The dollar also rose, and the shares of oil companies rose on foreign exchanges, benefiting from renewed tension in the Middle East.
"This is a real kick for the markets," said Oystein Berentsen, trading manager for Statoil of Norway, after the United Nations delayed an oil-for-food deal in the wake of incursions by Iraqi troops into Kurdish areas over the weekend. 
 Markets in the United States were closed for Labor Day.
In London, North Sea Brent blend crude oil for delivery in October settled at $21.99 a barrel, up $1.21, at the International Petroleum Exchange. The price of jet fuel hit its highest level in five years.
Traders had been expecting Iraq's first oil sales since the Persian Gulf war to hit markets in the next few weeks.
The situation in Iraq aided the dollar, often a safe-haven currency, but dealers said a more vital factor was growing speculation about higher United States interest rates by the end of the year.
"In the short term the dollar looks quite well supported as the market is gearing itself up for a rise in U.S. interest rates," said Elisabeth Legge at Bankgesellschaft Berlin.
In London, the dollar was quoted in late trading at 109.19 yen, up from 108.73 yen late Friday, and at 1.4871 marks, up from 1.4800 marks.
Oil shares rose strongly on the London stock market, Europe's biggest. Other European markets had a mixed performance.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares ended 16.8 points higher at 3,884.4.
The 30-share DAX index in Frankfurt closed floor trading down 10.95, at 2,532.88, but recovered a few points in later computerized business.
In Paris, the CAC 40-share index ended up 6.37 points, at 1,976.98.
In Japan, the Nikkei index of 225 issues fell 59.79 points, or three-tenths of 1 percent, to 20,107.11. [In trading early on Tuesday, the Nikkei rebounded. It ended the morning session up 88.73 points, or four-tenths of 1 percent, at 20,195.84.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BEB2 (FRA) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORWAY (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); LANDESBANK BERLIN HOLDING AG (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORWAY (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US LABOR DAY (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JET FUEL (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



80 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Poland Is Resisting U.S. Call That It Sell Tanks to Bosnia

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: WARSAW, Sept. 2

 BODY:
In a bow to the European Union, but a rebuff to the United States, the Polish Government is resisting selling battle tanks to the incipient Bosnian Army, American and Polish officials said.
A special Clinton Administration envoy to the Balkans, James W. Pardew Jr., is expected here at the end of the week to try once again to persuade Warsaw to aid in the controversial program to train and equip the army of the Muslim and Croatian federation, which controls about half of Bosnia while the Bosnian Serbs control the rest. But the officials said Mr. Pardew's mission would almost certainly end in failure. 
 "The decision has been taken not to supply them," a senior official of the Polish Foreign Office said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "We stand by the decision of the Europeans not to arm any side in any way."
The Clinton Administration maintains that it is necessary to build a strong federation army in Bosnia so the Muslim-dominated Government there will be able to deter any future Serbian aggression.
In general, though, European governments have argued that it is folly to send more arms to the Balkans. They have also said it is especially risky to give weapons to the precarious Muslim-Croat Federation, which was formed only under intense American pressure after those two sides fought a brutal war in 1993.
So far, European governments have rejected American requests to provide weapons or financial support for the program. Consequently, money for the weapons, other than those being supplied by the United States, is coming primarily from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Malaysia.
An American official said that so far about $140 million had been pledged by those countries and that the United States was contributing about $100 million in equipment, roughly half of what he said is needed.
"We still have a long way to go," he said.
The federation soldiers will be trained by Military Professional Resources Inc., a private organization of retired American military officers, which has headquarters in suburban Washington, D.C. The organization also assisted the Croatian Army in the months leading up to its victory last August against Serbian separatists in the Krajina region of Croatia.
When he announced the start of the American program for Bosnia, in Sarajevo in July, Mr. Pardew, a retired Army colonel, said, "In the future, if someone wants a fight, it will be a fair fight." He paused and added, "In fact it will be more than a fair fight."
Comments like those fuel the fears of European diplomats, as well as of many other observers in Bosnia, that the Bosnian Government may eventually use its new force against the Bosnian Serbs to keep them from seceding, which is the declared goal of most Serbian leaders.
Although it was part of the Dayton agreement that ended the fighting in Bosnia, the program to train and equip the Muslim-Croatian army was delayed because the two sides refused to sign a joint military agreement until six weeks ago, again under United States prodding.
The United States wants Poland to provide Bosnia with 45 T-72 tanks, which are made in Poland and were a mainstay of the old Warsaw Pact. When Poland initially balked at the $50 million deal, the United States offered to reimburse the Government for a substantial part of the cost, American officials said.
That was not enough, nor was the American argument that by sending tanks to Bosnia, the Polish Government would have maintenance and spare-parts contracts for its struggling tank factories, which have had little work and high unemployment since the end of the cold war.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); POLAND (97%); EUROPE (96%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; POLAND; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; CROATIA; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); POLAND (97%); EUROPE (96%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ARMS TRADE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PARDEW, JAMES W JR (AMB) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



81 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Attacks Military Targets in Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
The United States early today launched a cruise missile attack on military and command targets in Iraq in retaliation for its incursion into the northern Kurdish enclave.
The Pentagon, in a statement released at 1:55 this morning, announced the attack, saying the missiles were aimed at Iraq's anti-aircraft batteries and command centers. The statement provided no further details, and an official at the White House declined to specify the targets, the extent of the retaliation or the American forces involved. 
 "At the direction of the President, the Department of Defense has launched cruise missiles to attack selected air-defense targets in Iraq," the statement said.
The Pentagon said President Clinton would discuss the attack at the White House at 8 A.M.
The decision to use cruise missiles reflected concerns about putting American pilots at risk. It was not clear whether the air assault represented the first wave of a prolonged attack or a single strike.
In Baghdad, air raid sirens resounded at 9:25 A.M. (1:25 A.M. Eastern time), but there were no immediate reports of what areas were hit or what damage was caused.
Iraqis, hardened by two recent wars and stifling economic and social conditions, ignored the warning, The Associated Press reported. There was no visible panic among motorists and pedestrians filling the streets during the morning rush hour.
On Monday, the Clinton Administration said Iraq appeared to be pressing deeper into Kurdish areas and was executing political opponents.
Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman, said President Clinton had decided on "a defined course of action" against Mr. Hussein.
Iraq's forces withdrew from the center of Erbil early on Monday, but Mr. McCurry and other Administration officials said Iraqi troops, backed by tanks and artillery, remained arrayed around the city and inside the exclusion zone created by the United States and its allies five years ago to protect the Kurds.
"We see no indication that they are preparing withdrawal back to their original forward positions," said Mr. McCurry, who was traveling with the President aboard Air Force One on the way to campaign stops in Wisconsin. He added that the pullout was "not terribly significant because they still have a significant force arrayed around Erbil."
Aid workers arriving at Iraq's border with Turkey on Monday after fleeing Erbil said Iraqi soldiers had conducted house-to-house searches in the city for Kurdish leaders they view as enemies and had killed hundreds of people. [Page A6.]
The flurry of diplomacy and strategizing here in Washington, along the President's campaign trail and in capitals through Europe and the Middle East had strongly suggested that the Administration's avowed retaliation was at hand.
The United States' sizable forces in the Persian Gulf region remained at a high state of alert, poised to strike with aircraft or missiles deep into Iraq if ordered to do so.
Military officials said tonight that long-range B-52 bombers, carrying cruise missiles, had taken off from Guam, a flight of 12 to 15 hours to the Persian Gulf region. The air base at Guam, with its very long runways and maintenance support, is a normal staging area for B-52 missions.
The State Department also announced that Americans in Iraq should leave immediately.
Even as the President began to take steps, the Republican Presidential nominee, Bob Dole, strongly rebuked him for "weak leadership" in handling policy toward Iraq.
"We probably should not have to be doing what we're doing," Mr. Dole told reporters in Salt Lake City. He added that he agreed with even sharper remarks by one of his senior advisers, Senator John S. McCain of Arizona, who said Mr. Hussein had been emboldened by "weak signals and vacillation."'
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. John Shalikashvili, and Assistant Secretary of State Robert Pelletreau continued their diplomatic shuttle through the Middle East today. They met with King Hussein of Jordan and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, after visiting Saudi Arabia on Sunday, officials said, declining to discuss the results because of diplomatic sensitivities.
The national security adviser, Anthony Lake, flew to Little Rock, Ark., late Sunday night to brief Mr. Clinton and then returned here. The visit, not disclosed to reporters until today, was necessary for Mr. Lake to show the President "some things that he would need to look at that you can't really see on the telephone," Mr. McCurry said, declining to elaborate.
This afternoon, after a campaign speech in De Pere, Wis., Mr. Clinton ducked into a trailer to call President Jacques Chirac of France to discuss the Administration's plans, Mr. McCurry said. Secretary of State Warren Christopher also called allied leaders. Mr. Clinton returned to Washington late tonight.
At the United Nations, Sylvana Foa, the spokeswoman for Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, said today that relief workers in Erbil had reported that Iraqi troops had withdrawn at least from the center of the city. In their wake, fighters with the Kurdistan Democratic Party, now allied with Iraq's forces, consolidated control over the city, which had previously been held by its rival faction, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan.
"The fact is they have left the city," Ms. Foa said. "There are no Iraqi tanks or troops left in Erbil. Where they went, we don't know."
There were conflicting reports from northern Iraq of casualties and damage, as well as reports of continued fighting, looting and repression of Kurds allied with the Patriotic Union and Iraqi opposition leaders who had sought sanctuary in the Kurdish enclave. None of those reports could be independently verified, although Mr. McCurry said the United States had received reports of Iraqi reprisals.
United Nations relief officials in Erbil reported that a local hospital had seen at least 100 casualties, including some dead, after Iraq's thrust into the city on Saturday. Damage appeared relatively limited, given the size of the Iraqi force, the officials said, but the city still had no electricity or water. Representatives of the Patriotic Union, whose forces were routed from Erbil, said the deaths and damage were significantly greater.
In a telephone interview from Baghdad, Gualtiero Fulcheri, the United Nations coordinator for relief activities in Iraq, said the situation in and around Erbil appeared calm today. But he said a sizable group of Kurds had demonstrated outside a United Nations building in the Kurdish city of Sulaimaniya, near which Iraqi troops have reportedly massed.
"The area is a bit nervous," he said.
Iraqi forces drove into the northern enclave on Saturday and quickly seized Erbil with 30,000 to 40,000 troops. In Baghdad, the Government announced that it had intervened on behalf of the Kurdistan Democratic Party in its struggle for supremacy with the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, which has intermittently allied itself with Iran.
The incursion was Mr. Hussein's most significant military campaign since the period after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, when the United States, Britain and France created the exclusion zone, barring Iraqi aircraft though not ground forces. In 1991, the United Nations passed a resolution demanding that Mr. Hussein end repression of the Kurds. The United States, under President Bush, used the resolution as justification to create the "no-flight zone," which covers Iraqi air space above the 36th parallel.
On Sunday, Mr. Boutros-Ghali suspended the recent United Nations agreement to allow Iraq to sell $2 billion worth of oil every six months to pay for food and medicine needed by Iraqis after six years of international sanctions, imposed because of its invasion of Kuwait. Although the United States called for the suspension as a punitive measure, Mr. Boutros-Ghali cited the security of United Nations workers as one reason for his decision.
Even as it vowed to retaliate, the Administration moved on several fronts to shore up international support, reflecting the lingering sensitivities and divisions about America's efforts to isolate Mr. Hussein. The diplomatic shuttling in the Middle East, however, appeared to have mixed results.
Turkey, under Necmettin Erbakan, its first Prime Minister from an Islamic party, announced today that it opposed suspending the oil sale, saying it feared another influx of refugees, as happened after Iraq crushed the Kurdish rebellion in 1991. Turkey, a member of NATO, permits the United States to use a base in Incirlik to patrol the no-flight zone.
Even as Iraq withdrew from the center of Erbil, senior Administration officials said Iraq's forces continued to support fighters of the Democratic Party inside the city and to control primary roads in the region. There were also reports that Iraqi troops were moving against other Kurdish cities, including Chamchamal, Kifri and Sulaimaniya, to the south and east of Erbil.
"They're still there," an official said. "They're consolidating their gains."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kurdish guerrillas of the pro-Iraqi faction guarded the entrance to Erbil on Sunday after they captured the city from the rival pro-Iranian forces. (Associated Press)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Iraq showing location of Erbil.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN) ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; ; ERBIL (IRAQ); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (58%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTION ISSUES ; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); 

PERSON: SHALIKASHVILI, JOHN M (GEN); PELLETREAU, ROBERT (ASST SEC); MYERS, STEVEN LEE; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



82 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Clark Enters a Pennant Race and Finds It Fun

BYLINE: By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
Cinderella's gown turned into rags at midnight. Dave Clark's clothes turned into the uniform of a pennant-contending team just before midnight.
"It should be everybody's dream and hope to be in a situation like this," Clark said at Shea Stadium yesterday as the contending Los Angeles Dodgers prepared to play the lost-hope Mets. "Coming to the ball park is a whole lot funner than it was for me in Pittsburgh, knowing that we weren't going anywhere. This is a good situation for me. I'm just going to soak it up and enjoy it." 
 Labor Day has always been a pivotal road sign in the six-month travels of a baseball season. A team in first place on Labor Day, the old rule of thumb used to go, would win the pennant. Nowadays, though, the first Monday in September marks the beginning of the stretch run of the races, both for division championships and for the newfangled creations known as the wild cards.
In each of the major leagues' six divisions, there is either a race in progress for the championship or teams that are competing for the wild-card spots.
The Dodgers, the team that acquired the veteran outfielder Clark from the Pirates on Saturday night, just in time for him to be eligible for their post-season roster, are in two races. By beating the Mets, 8-5, yesterday, they remained one game behind first-place San Diego in the National League West and a half-game ahead of Montreal in the wild-card standing.
The Mets are nowhere to be found. That is, they are still listed in the N.L. East standing, but they teeter on the precipice of elimination. As soon as they lose and the Atlanta Braves win a number of games totaling two, the 1996 Mets will join the 1995 Mets and the 1994 Mets and the 1993 Mets . . . you get the idea.
The Mets are among the teams whose players won't find coming to the ball park "funner" in September. Sure, Todd Hundley can break Roy Campanella's record for most home runs hit by a catcher -- he hit his 39th yesterday, leaving him one short of Campanella -- and Lance Johnson can become the first player to lead both leagues in hits -- his single in the Mets' 3-2 victory gave him 186 and a six-hit lead. But those individual achievements aren't what Dave Clark had in mind when he talked about the sudden change in his September status.
"At first it was a little sad," Clark said of his departure from the Pirates, with whom he had spent nearly five seasons. "But once I got here and put the uniform on, it felt pretty good. I don't know exactly what my role is going to be. I'm just ready for anything."
In being traded into a pennant race, Clark, 34 years old today, was the beneficiary of a sudden change in the Pirates' planning. Like the Mets, the Pirates will not have fun this month, probably not for the next few dozen months.
Just when they appeared to be showing signs of recovery from the economic demolition of their division championship teams, the Pirates' new owner, Kevin McClatchy, snatched the veterans out from under Manager Jim Leyland and General Manager Cam Bonifay.
"Basically," Bonifay explained, "the design that Mr. McClatchy wants us to take is to try to move as many of our veteran players for younger prospects so we have a pipeline of prospects to the major leagues. We're trying to develop that type of strategy to bring in as many good players as we can. That is going to decrease our payroll."
Not to mention interest in the team in Pittsburgh. "It's disappointing," Bonifay said. "We were in a situation where we felt we had turned. Now we're going back the other way and we have to start all over. It's going to be a long hard struggle for us."
Clark followed Denny Neagle and Charlie Hayes out of the Pirates' clubhouse. Jeff King and Carlos Garcia are sure to follow, if not this month, then after the season.
The Dodgers have young players, too, as well as an established way of working them into their lineup. They have supplied the last four rookies of the year in the National League, and yesterday their No. 1 rookie of this season displayed his value. In his last three times at bat, Todd Hollandsworth cracked two doubles and a home run and drove in three of the Dodgers' last six runs.
"I'm a little tired right now, but you just reach back and grab everything you have left and push forward," Hollandsworth, 23, said. "We're going neck and neck with San Diego right now."
The left fielder was with the Dodgers last season but was injured a lot. "I got to witness the pennant race," he said. "That was exciting. But to be part of it now, to be part of this offense, to help this team produce means a lot to me."
Fun and meaning -- elements of the game the Mets are missing this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PIRATES; LOS ANGELES DODGERS LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PIRATES; LOS ANGELES DODGERS LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; CLARK, DAVE DAVE CLARK (91%); CAM BONIFAY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



83 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Agency Had Noted Problems in Home Where Girl Starved

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY 

 BODY:
The head of New York City's Administration for Children's Services acknowledged yesterday that evidence of neglect was found 15 months ago at the home of Nadine Lockwood, the 4-year-old girl who investigators say was starved to death by her mother. But he said that after an initial review of records, he could not say what action, if any, was taken by city social workers.
There was a long history of contact between child welfare workers and the Lockwood family, which was investigated several times for child neglect -- twice after Nadine and another child were born with drugs in their system and at other times, when friends or neighbors called child welfare officials. 
 Nicholas Scoppetta, the Commissioner of Children's Services, said yesterday that city investigators found enough "credible evidence" of neglect to open an investigation when they visited the apartment in Washington Heights in May 1995 after an anonymous complaint about Nadine's treatment. But based on the records available to him yesterday, he said he was unable to say what conditions were found or what further action was taken. The case was closed five months later. Mr. Scoppetta, who became Commissioner in February, said he expects to begin a full review of the case today.
"This is truly a mind-numbing crime," Mr. Scoppetta said. "We're all stunned at the prospect of a mother killing her own child, but to do it in this way, starving a child to death so she literally watched her child die, is beyond our comprehension."
He promised a full investigation of the case and said any city workers found not to have performed properly in the case "will be held accountable." He said the social worker who responded to the complaint on May 25, 1995, about Nadine was no longer investigating child abuse and neglect complaints and had been placed on administrative duty in December, but he refused to say why.
The case is likely to train new attention on the city's child welfare bureaucracy, which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani revamped in January, after Elisa Izquierdo, 6, was beaten to death by her mother last year.
Carla Lockwood, 32, was arraigned early yesterday on charges of killing her daughter and was sent to Rikers Island.
But after complaining of pains yesterday afternoon, Ms. Lockwood was taken to Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens, where she had a gynecological examination, Tom Antenen, a spokesman for the Department of Corrections, said. She was admitted to the hospital and spent the night in the psychiatric ward.
Ms. Lockwood is apparently pregnant again, and may be suffering the effects of an ectopic pregnancy, said an official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Nadine's emaciated body was found in a crib by Ms. Lockwood's estranged husband. Investigators said Ms. Lockwood told them that she did not feed Nadine regularly over the last year and that in the last few months, as the girl withered and was unable to walk, stand or sit up, she did not seek medical help.
The Medical Examiner's office has not yet ruled on the cause of death in the case. The criminal complaint said Nadine was "extremely malnourished."
Nadine was one of eight children. One was adopted shortly after birth by another family and the other seven lived with Ms. Lockwood. None of the other children showed signs of abuse, officials said, despite having been forced to sleep together on the same mattress in a rat- and roach-infested apartment, where the refrigerator was padlocked.
After her arrest on Saturday night, Ms. Lockwood told the police that she "did not want or love" Nadine, according to papers filed in court, and that she kept her in a crib with a blanket over it as the child slowly starved to death. Friends and neighbors said Ms. Lockwood seemed to single out Nadine for punishment, keeping her in a back room.
Catherine McDaniel, who lives across St. Nicholas Avenue, near 158th Street, from Ms. Lockwood, said that in late 1994, she accused Ms. Lockwood of mistreating Nadine. "I said, 'I know you are neglecting her,' " Ms. McDaniel said yesterday. "And we got in an argument. She said: 'You don't have kids. Don't tell me about kids.' "
Ms. McDaniel said Nadine was extremely thin and seemed so in need of attention that the child would cling to her when she visited Ms. Lockwood's second-floor apartment. On one visit in 1994, Ms. McDaniel said, she noticed that Nadine was not being fed along with the other children.
"I said why are the rest of the kids eating and she's sucking on a chicken bone," Ms. McDaniel said. "And Carla said: 'She's already eaten. She's just greedy.' There was a time I was up there and we were all sitting in the living room, Carla took Nadine out of her crib, and she would walk a few steps, but then she would have to sit down because she was so frail."
Ms. McDaniel said she enlisted her sister and cousin in a campaign to call city child welfare officials to seek help. The three women said Ms. Lockwood had told them that Nadine had gone "down South" with a relative but that they continued calling for help because they feared that she was still in the apartment, being neglected.
The women said that although social workers seemed to respond to their calls, they were not satisfied that Nadine was being protected. Leslie Forbes, Ms. McDaniel's sister, said she called child welfare workers as recently as a few months ago, but the last complaint recorded in city records in the case was made in May 1995, Mr. Scoppetta said.
Mr. Scoppetta said the Lockwood family first came to the city's attention in 1989, when Ms. Lockwood gave birth to a child who tested positive for drugs. Two years later, when Nadine was born, she also tested positive for drugs.
He said it was normal procedure for a family to be investigated when a newborn has a positive test for drugs, although he said he could not comment directly on what happened in the Lockwood case. Earlier this year, the Giuliani administration tried unsuccessfully to change state laws so that a positive drug test for a newborn would trigger the city's power to remove the child from the mother, unless the mother could demonstrate why that should not happen.
Officials said that Ms. Lockwood had a history of drug use but that she had no previous criminal record.
Leroy Dickerson, who said he was Ms. Lockwood's husband and the father of seven of her eight children, icluding Nadine, said Ms. Lockwood was molested and abused as a child in Belize. He said Ms. Lockwood told him that when she complained to her grandmother about the abuse, the grandmother "ended up beating her and locking her in a room."
Mr. Dickerson, 37, who was a security guard but is now unemployed, said he left Ms. Lockwood when she was pregnant with Nadine. "Me and her were going through changes, and I just walked away from my responsibility," he said.
He said that he continued visiting and that although the apartment was in severe disrepair, he saw no signs of abuse. He said he had not seen his wife and children for three or four months until Ms. Lockwood called him to the apartment late Saturday.
"She said I'm not getting no pulse or nothing like that," Mr. Dickerson said. When he went to the apartment and found Nadine lying still, "I tried to breathe in her mouth," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leroy Dickerson, the father of Nadine, found her body at the apartment of Ms. Lockwood, his estranged wife, in Washington Heights. Nadine Lockwood, 4, was found starved to death in this crib on Saturday. Her mother, Carla Lockwood, was charged with murder. The criminal complaint said the child was "extremely malnourished." (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CHILD WELFARE (93%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (91%); STARVATION (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (64%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; LOCKWOOD, NADINE; LOCKWOOD, CARLA; SCOPPETTA, NICHOLAS (COMR) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996



84 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Coffee Prices Fall on Report Of Speculators' Heavy Buying

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Coffee prices tumbled in New York yesterday on signs that speculators had been recent buyers.
On other markets, gold prices ended lower after giving back some early gains following the United States attack against Iraq. 
 Coffee prices fell on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York following a report released on Friday that showed a large buildup of speculative buyers recently just as commercial coffee companies had hedged or sold the market short.
 The data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission sparked an immediate selloff since it indicated that last week's price rally had a soft speculative core.
 "The C.F.T.C. showed the trade significantly short and the speculators significantly long," Ann Prendergast, an analyst with Refco Inc., said. "It was a formula for a selloff."
 Coffee for December delivery fell to a two-week low and closed 4.95 cents a pound lower at 113.30 cents.
Cocoa prices were also lower on the exchange. Analysts said optimism about supplies in the leading producer, Ivory Coast, improved with summer rains and a record large physical delivery in the London market on Monday -- 212,500 metric tons accepted by one trade house -- eased supply concerns.
 "The record delivery in London shows there is a ton of cocoa out there for anyone who wants to buy," said Walter Spilka, an analyst with Smith Barney.
 December cocoa closed down $16 a metric ton at $1,336, its lowest settlement since March 27.
Gold, which gained early in the day on the news of the attack on Iraq, fell back in New York. Gold often benefits in times of turmoil because it is considered a safe-haven investment.
On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery fell 80 cents, to $390.50 an ounce. The December silver contract fell 4.3 cents, to $5.208 an ounce, and October platinum fell 20 cents to $398.70 an ounce.
Still, if a rise in crude oil prices persists, there is a possibility of higher world inflation, which would be supportive for precious metals, analysts said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (70%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: REFCO INC (70%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (88%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COFFEE COFFEE MARKETS (92%); COFFEE (92%); FUTURES (92%); COCOA MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); COFFEE & TEA (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



85 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: First, Do No Harm

BYLINE: By Paul R. Krugman; Paul R. Krugman, a professor of economics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is the author of "Peddling Prosperity."

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif.

 BODY:
Let's not kid ourselves: Bill Clinton does not have much of an economic program. What he proposes to do is tinker at the edges -- a tax credit here, a government-subsidized volunteer program there.
Some of these ideas, like education tax credits, are at best dubious. Others, like eliminating the capital gains tax on houses, are election-year give-aways that would not cost much money but do send the wrong signals to the public, which should learn that we can no longer afford such gestures. 
 But President Clinton's economic program is the only alternative for Americans who care about our nation's troubled future, because Bob Dole's program is immeasurably worse. It is a shame that we must choose between the lesser of two evils, but we must. Mr. Clinton's sins are venial compared with the desperate irresponsibility and cynicism of his opponent.
The sad truth about this year's economic debate is that the biggest issue facing the Federal Government -- the issue that should be uppermost in our minds -- is not being discussed at all. Most of what happens in our economy is beyond the reach of government policy. In particular, the evidence suggests that it is difficult for the Government to have any visible effect on the economy's long-term growth rate.
There is one thing, however, that the Government can and must control: its own budget. And it is heading inexorably toward fiscal disaster, as the baby boomers in the tens of millions march steadily toward the age at which they can claim Social Security and Medicare. True, the crisis is still about 15 years away. But we expect responsible adults to start preparing for their retirement decades in advance; why shouldn't we ask the same of our Government?
Unfortunately, everything that a responsible government should be doing now -- raising taxes, raising the retirement age, scaling back benefits for those who can manage without them (that means for the affluent, not the poor) -- is political poison.
It may be too much to ask the candidates to preach responsibility to the public, but we can at least ask them not to make things even worse by offering goodies the nation cannot afford.
Mr. Clinton basically passes this test. He announced many new programs in his acceptance speech, but they were without exception brilliantly devised to sound important while costing very little money. For example, the proposal to eliminate capital gains taxes on houses would cost the Treasury only a few hundred million dollars a year, because existing law allows most people to avoid such taxes anyway.
While President Clinton's claim to pay for each of his new programs "line by line, dime by dime" surely involves some creative accounting, his ideas, which seem to have been based on achieving as many sound bites as possible for $10 billion or less, will not break the bank. Bob Dole's half-trillion dollar tax cut -- which he proposes to pay for with smoke, mirrors and wishful thinking -- will.
The really disturbing thing about the Republican program is that we have good reason to wonder whether Mr. Dole himself believes in it. Until recently he was openly contemptuous of the supply-side ideas he now espouses. And the former Senate majority leader knows better than anyone else that a plan relying on "magic asterisks" -- spending cuts to be specified later -- is doomed to fail, because you need a public mandate to scale back the popular programs that make up the bulk of Federal spending.
Some people say that this election is not only about policy, but also about character. I agree. But when I look at Bob Dole, I see a man who for the sake of ambition would choose to gamble with the very solvency of our Government.
Mr. Clinton offers the public an empty economic plan. Does he deserve to win? Maybe not. But Mr. Dole deserves to lose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); MEDICARE (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (63%); VOLUNTEERS (57%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; KRUGMAN, PAUL R (PROF) BILL CLINTON (93%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



86 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Weak Data Help Bonds To Recover

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities bounced up from morning lows yesterday as investor concern lessened that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates to slow an economy that may be growing too rapidly.
The calming factor was the report for August issued yesterday by the National Association of Purchasing Management. It was not as strong as had been expected based on last week's report by Chicago purchasing managers. Until yesterday, the national report had been similar to the Chicago report, so traders had come to rely on the Chicago figures. Now it is unclear whether the economy's growth is slow enough that the Fed will not feel the need to raise rates in September. 
 By the close of the New York market, the 30-year bond was up 25/32 , to a price of 969/32 to yield 7.05 percent, down from 7.12 percent on Friday.
The market's negative tone appeared to be established early in overnight selling. An article in The Wall Street Journal suggested that Fed policy makers were moving toward a sharper-than-expected rate increase of 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, unless clear signs of slower growth emerged in the next three weeks. The fear that the economy appeared to be revving up eased considerably with the national purchasing managers' report.
Maury Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber, said data so far did not show an overheating economy.As a result, he said he did not expect that the central bank would raise rates at this month's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee.
The market started to do better when the purchasing managers' report showed that the economy was expanding but not overheating, Mr. Harris said, noting that the prices-paid index was below 50, whereas in an overheating economy it would be well above 50. In the August component, the number was 47.4, compared with 44.5 in July.
"The Fed has to see more than above-average growth before it moves to raise rates," Mr. Harris said. Yesterday the Government issued its July report on leading indicators, which showed a gain of two-tenths of a percent, about as expected. "But the important thing was that the purchasing agents' report was not nearly as strong as the Chicago N.A.P.M. report last Friday, and that was up all the way to 60," Mr. Harris said.
The market skipped past the day's last obstacle when the Johnson Redbook retail sales index showed a gain of eight-tenths of a percent in August from July.
"We went though a period last week where all the numbers were stronger than expected," Mr. Harris said. "Today was an example of not getting stronger-than-expected numbers at a time when the market fears getting greater-than-expected numbers." Many investors were relieved as a result, producing some buying and forcing those betting against the market to cover short positions.
Nancy Kimelman, chief economist and director of research at Technical Data in Boston, predicted that the Fed would move this month.
"Given the Fed is 50 basis points behind the curve," she said, "I think they will have to be somewhat creative about raising rates 50 basis points so close to the election. One option is to execute the rate hike in two sessions that could be back-to-back meetings of 25 basis points each, or 25 basis points on the next piece of economic news that confirms the economy's strong pace, and that could come as early as Friday when the employment numbers are released. The second half of the rate rise would then come at the actual meeting on Sept. 24.
"My thoughts here are that the economy is doing so well that the Clinton Administration is ready to accept a rate hike. But the question is whether it is willing to accept 50 basis points all at once."
Rates at yesterday's bill auctions were higher again and reflected the weaker-than-normal interests in the auctions amid the rate uncertainty, which affects the short end of the market the greatest.
The average rate of a three-month bill was 5.19 percent, up from 5.07 percent last week, while the rate for a six-month bill rose to 5.38 percent from 5.16 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.688	97.280	Discounted Rate	5.19%	5.38%	Coupon Yield	5.33%	5.61%	High Price	98.693	97.290	Discounted Rate	5.17%	5.36%	Coupon Yield	5.31%	5.59%	Low Price	98.688	97.280	Discounted Rate	5.19%	5.38%	Coupon Yield	5.33%	5.61%	Accepted at low price	42%	35%	Total applied for	$47,415,660	$48,740,110	Accepted	$12,066,356	$12,094,076	Noncompetitive	$1,406,000	$1,193,730	

Both issues are dated Sept. 5. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 5 and the six-month bills on March 6.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MAURY HARRIS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



87 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
In Inner-City Chicago, Kemp Makes Pitch for Black Votes

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 3

 BODY:
In one of his strongest pitches yet for black votes, Jack Kemp grappled again today with his position on affirmative action, telling an inner-city audience that he had not abandoned his support for it and promising that economic revival for urban areas would be a keystone of a Dole-Kemp Administration.
"Our democracy cannot survive into the next century," Mr. Kemp said, "if we do not bring the races together and recognize that unity in our country does not require uniformity but it does require unanimity around the idea of opportunity for all people, removing the barriers. 
 "I'm talking about affirmative action. I'm for affirmative action if it is the type of Government effort to remove the barriers to people taking part in the type of access to credit, capital, housing, ownership, marriages, jobs and education that are absolutely essential."
Mr. Kemp, the Republican nominee for Vice President, was an early and strong supporter of the Federal Government's affirmative action program. But since accepting the No. 2 position on a Republican ticket where the standardbearer and much of the party opposes the program, he had backed away from public support of affirmative action, rarely raising the issue.
But before a small group of politically active blacks at the Abraham Lincoln Center this afternoon, Mr. Kemp not only brought up the subject of affirmative action, but made it a major point of his talk.
"You can say, and you should, 'Kemp, you made a comment about affirmative action. What did you mean? Have you flipped or have you flopped?' " he said. "No."
"Affirmative action are two good words," he said, "and in my opinion, we must reaffirm constantly Government's pledge to the American people of all colors, particularly those left out, to get the access to credit, capital, educational choice and jobs with the safety and security for their families that any family wants in this country."
Mr. Kemp was careful not to link Bob Dole, the Republican Presidential nominee, with his comments on affirmative action. But he did pledge that Mr. Dole as President would push for economic enterprise zones for inner-city areas, support public housing vouchers and vouchers for education.
The non-stop campaigning since the end of the political conventions has taken Mr. Kemp before what he has conceded are nontraditional Republican audiences -- like bedrock unionist communities and into inner-city neighborhoods in Los Angeles and elsewhere -- as he and Mr. Dole try to cut into a commanding lead by the Democratic ticket of President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore.
"We want every single vote of every single man and woman from the South Side of Chicago to the east side of Harlem," Mr. Kemp said to polite applause. "We are going to do with all our efforts in 1996 to make this a campaign that is inclusionary not exclusive, progressive not reactionary, expansive not narrow."
Mr. Kemp, who was Secretary of of Housing and Urban Development in the Bush Administration, is politically popular among a sizable number of black voters and the Dole-Kemp campaign has tried to capitalize on that.
Today, his schedule took him and Gov. Jim Edgar, a fellow Republican, into one of the most bedrock Democratic towns in the country, into a neighborhood that mirrors that partisan bent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: KEMP ADMINISTRATION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); CITIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; KEMP, JACK F; DOLE, BOB AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



88 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises Against the Yen, But Gains Are Limited Later

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen yesterday after demand for the currency was fueled by a United States missile attack against Iraq and talk of a rise in United States interest rates.
The dollar surged in Asian trading, benefiting from its status as a safe currency in times of turmoil. 
 "The impulse right now is to be slightly long dollars," said Bill Marr, foreign exchange manager at Credit Commerciale de France. "It's the old adage of flight to quality in times of crisis and uncertainty."
But after the dollar climbed to seven-week highs against the yen, the rally fizzled. The dollar climbed to around 1.4910 German marks and 109.45 yen in European trading before paring gains in New York.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 109.22 yen, up from 109.19 in London on Monday and up from 108.92 in New York on Friday. The dollar traded at 1.4840 marks, down from 1.4871 marks in London on Monday, but up from 1.4808 marks in New York on Friday. American markets were closed on Monday for Labor Day.
The British pound rose to $1.5660, from $1.5598 in London on Monday. The pound benefited from a surge in oil prices after the attack against Iraq. Britain is a net exporter of oil.
But the rise in oil prices weakened the yen. Rising petroleum prices typically hurt the yen because Japan imports virtually all its oil.
 "If oil prices go higher, that could hurt the yen and also benefit sterling," Mr. Marr of Credit Commerciale de France said.
 The dollar was generally bolstered yesterday by expectations of traders that interest rates in the United States were set to rise.
 A recent string of strong economic indicators may persuade the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates this month, traders and analysts said. Supporting that view and helping to support the dollar was an article in The Wall Street Journal that said Fed policy makers were weighing a bigger-than-expected increase of a half-point in short-term interest rates unless clear signs of slower growth emerged.
 The prospect of higher rates, however, rattled American stock and bond markets. Those markets recovered, but the dollar's gains were limited. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (91%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); CREDIT COMMERCIALE DE FRANCE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CREDIT COMMERCIALE DE FRANCE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (91%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BONDS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US LABOR DAY (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: BILL MARR (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



89 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: State Reports Budget Surplus of $250 Million in Hartford

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Connecticut finished the state's fiscal year on June 30 with its largest budget surplus in nine years -- $250 million -- benefiting from a windfall in income tax revenue, State Comptroller Nancy Wyman announced today.
The surplus suggests that the state is emerging from the economic troubles of the first half of the decade, and officials said the number of people with jobs grew slightly this year. At the same time, the surplus is also the result of efforts to control state spending, holding it to one of the smallest percentage increases in years. 
 "We're doing great," said Michael Levin, vice president of the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, a nonprofit research group often critical of the state's finances. "Let's admit it, Connecticut is on a roll."
Still, it is unclear what the surplus means for future budgets, particularly with regard to Gov. John G. Rowland's campaign promise to eliminate the state income tax by the year 2002.
While Mr. Rowland, a Republican, pointed today to the surplus as evidence that further tax cuts are possible, some Democrats saw it as proof that almost two years after Mr. Rowland's election, the state continues to rely heavily on the income tax that was instituted in 1991.
In her report, Ms. Wyman, a Democrat, injected a note of caution. Although income tax revenues were $182 million more than expected, as much as 70 percent of that money may be from capital gains from stock sales, her aides said.
And those sales may have been particularly heavy over the last year, when financial markets reached an all-time high, Ms. Wyman said, noting that there is no guarantee that similar amounts will be collected in the future.
"The one-time nature of these receipts may prove problematic in meeting revenue targets for the current fiscal year," Ms. Wyman said.
According to Ms. Wyman's report, the state collected $274 million more in general fund revenues than it had expected, receiving a total of about $9.1 billion. Along with the increased income tax revenue, this includes better-than-expected returns on corporation taxes and inheritance taxes and on Federal grants.
The Comptroller's report also showed that spending was about $24 million above the budgeted amount, largely because of increased costs in foster care and nursing homes. While the state overspent its budget by $80 million in those areas, Mr. Rowland's administration compensated by finding an additional $56 million in savings in various agencies, the report said.
At a news conference this morning, Mr. Rowland said the main reason for the surplus was his effort to hold increases in spending to below 3 percent, about half the growth rate in the preceding four years. "If we had followed the increases of the previous administration," he said, "we would not have had this result."
About $89.5 million of the surplus is to be used to pay off debt incurred in 1991. The remainder will be deposited in the "rainy day" fund, a reserve that is intended to cushion state finances in the event of sudden downturn in the economy. By law, the money in that fund cannot be used for operations or for tax cuts.
This is only the second year that the state has managed to put money into the rainy day fund, though the state has has been running an annual surplus since 1992. From 1992 through 1994, the surplus money was applied to either the next year's budget or to paying off debt.
The high surplus and the state's ability to put it in the rainy day fund signal that the economy has taken a turn for the better. In the late 1980's and early 1990's, the state ran several years of deficits, including a record $817.3 million in 1991 that led to passage of the income tax.
According to State Labor Department figures, the number of people employed in Connecticut dropped to a low of roughly 1.5 million in 1992, from about 1.7 million in 1988.
Since then, the Labor Department said, the state has added about 48,000 jobs, contributing to the rise in income tax revenues.
State Senator George Jepsen, a Stamford Democrat, said this was largely the result of an improved national economy.
"The surplus has nothing to do with spending cuts," Mr. Jepsen said. "And the irony is that while John Rowland may say he hates the income tax, it's what's driving the state budget right now."
Mr. Levin of the economic council agreed that increased revenues from an improved economy were the biggest contributor to this year's surplus, and he said the economic upturn also made it easier to cut spending for social services. But he added that Mr. Rowland's restrictions on spending should not be brushed aside.
"They're certainly not chopped liver," Mr. Levin said, noting that Mr. Rowland had kept the state government on a course toward lower spending. "You've got to give the captain of the ship credit," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pluses and Minuses" shows Connecticut's budget deficit and surplus record over the last 20 years. (Source: State Comptroller's Office (1996 figure); Connecticut Office if Fiscal Analysis)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (93%); INCOME TAX (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ESTATE TAX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TRENDS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; WYMAN, NANCY (COMPTROLLER) JOHN G ROWLAND (93%); NANCY WYMAN (74%); MICHAEL LEVIN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



90 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up as Oil Stocks Soar on Attacks in Iraq

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks roared back from a deep selloff yesterday to end on a strong note, propelled by big gains in oil company stocks after American military strikes on Iraqi targets lifted oil prices to four-month highs.
The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 32.18 points at 5,648.39 after falling more than 50 points in the first minutes of the session as investors worried about higher interest rates and about the action against Iraq. 
 Analysts warned, however, that the market's recovery masked continued uncertainty about interest rates, noting that most of the Dow's strength came from oil stocks.
Gains in most broader indexes were smaller, and the American Stock Exchange index fell 1.89 points, to 557.79.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.79 point, to 1,142.29, and the Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 2.73 points, to 654.72.
Declining issues led advances by 1,395 to 1,027 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The rebound in blue-chip stocks began with the release of the National Association of Purchasing Management index of manufacturing activity for August.
The index, which rose to 52.6 points, from 50.2 in July, fell slightly short of Wall Street predictions for a 52.9 reading, leaving unsettled the timing and magnitude of any future action on interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
After the report, "which was generally in line with forecasts, you can still make a case both ways," said Hugh Johnson, the chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation. "It left markets with reason to believe the Fed will move and reason to believe it won't."
Late in the session, stocks were given another lift by a report from Lynch, Jones & Ryan Inc., which tracks the retailing business; it said that retail sales rose just eight-tenths of 1 percent in August, compared with July.
The tame growth surprised analysts, who had expected back-to-school sales to lead to a greater rise in retail sales.
Oil stocks were the session's standouts, as the sector reacted to the leap in crude oil prices after the United States bombed military targets in Iraq in retaliation for weekend attacks on internationally protected Kurdish zones.
Texaco rose 3 1/8, to 91 7/8; Exxon gained 2 1/4 to 83 3/4, and Mobil was up 2 3/8, to 115 3/8.
Crude oil prices closed up $1.15 at $23.40 a barrel after earlier rising to $24.25 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The surge in oil prices boded ill for companies that depend heavily on fuel, however, and sent the Dow Jones transportation index tumbling 19.12 points, to 2,025.26.
"With higher oil prices come tougher times for the transports," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd.
Hit particularly hard were airlines, with Delta Air Lines down 2, to 68 7/8; the parent of United Airlines, UAL, off 1/2, to 47 1/2, and USAir Group down 1/2, to 17 3/8.
In yet another sign of increasing unease on Wall Street, Dean Witter Reynolds said it was reducing the exposure to stocks in its asset allocation model to 55 percent from 60 percent and the investment in bonds to 20 percent from 25 percent. The cash level was increased to 25 percent from 15 percent.
The firm's chief investment strategist, Peter Canelo, said concerns about interest rates were the primary reason for the changes.
"The problem is this period of uncertainty could last more than a week," Mr. Canelo said.
Among individual issues, Intel rose 1 13/16, to 81 5/8, after Robertson Stephens raised its earnings estimates on the company for 1996 and 1997.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (66%); LYNCH JONES & RYAN INC (65%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (85%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



91 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Giant Book Emporium Enters New York Fray

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
The super-scale bookstore, like the corner deli, is largely a New York invention. Barnes & Noble, which grew up in the city, helped establish the idea that books should be purchased by the cartload, and took that notion to middle America in the 1970's, becoming in the process the nation's largest bookselling chain.
Yesterday, middle America returned the favor. 
 Borders Books and Music, which as recently as the mid-1980's consisted of a single store in Ann Arbor, Mich., arrived with a bang in lower Manhattan, Barnes & Noble's very backyard, with 38,000 square feet of books, periodicals and recordings in a brightly lighted cappuccino-scented melange of print and commerce.
For bookbuyers and sellers alike, a new heavyweight player in town represents a mixed bag of effects. It creates greater choice and competition, certainly. But it also makes book retailing in New York -- long one of the last strongholds of the idiosyncratic local independent business -- more like the rest of the country, where the two giants of the book world now battle and share the spoils.
"It's a media mall," said Cory Hollis, 32, who was sitting in an armchair at Borders, reading a biography of Ella Fitzgerald. Mr. Hollis said that three of his passions were books, music and coffee, and that in the past that meant lots of stops: Nobody Beats the Wiz for music, the Strand for books and Starbucks for coffee. At Borders, it's all right there.
Spokeswomen for Borders and Barnes & Noble were carefully cordial and complimentary in their comments about each other, and both downplayed the significance of a fast-growing chain like Borders, which has opened 80 of its 131 stores in just the last two years, finally bringing a store to the nation's historic book publishing capital.
"We think any bookstore is a cause for celebration," said Lisa Herling, a vice president of corporate communications at Barnes & Noble.
Some owners of smaller bookstores, in the best spirit of self-confident entrepreneurship, said that the new Borders store might well represent a threat to some existing bookstores, but probably not to theirs. New York, with its deep ties to the world of writing and reading, still offers niches and opportunitities unavailable elsewhere, they said.
"Independent shops can still survive, particularly if they hit on an angle that other shops don't contend with," said Dan Wechsler, a co-owner of the Book Ark, a one-year-old store on Manhattan's Upper West Side that specializes in second-hand and out-of-print books. Mr. Wechsler said he had seen two mainstream independent bookstores close in his neighborhood in just the last year. "But we're dealing with books that Barnes & Noble and Borders might not carry," Mr. Wechsler said. "We're generally helped by having other bookstores, because we get referrals."
Gerard Hamon, owner of Books and Baguettes, a six-month-old cafe and bookstore near New York University that sells only foreign-language books, said he too felt fairly confident that his niche is unusual enough to survive.
"But I'm glad they're not next door," he said of Borders.
Borders officials said they had tried, as they do with all their stores, to make this new one fit the particular demands and interests of local readers -- in other words to make this Borders as much of a local institution as their market research would allow.
The New York location, at the World Trade Center, puts the store at a center of international business and of transportion, with numerous subway lines as well as PATH train connections to New Jersey stopping nearby. That means a clientele, said Chris Gillespie, the store's community relations coordinator, with a larger need for foreign-language periodicals and books and business and economics texts than in many of the chain's other stores.
But New York readers, she said, are also different in expecting their demands to be met, however arcane the subject. And the store, with its vague aura of coffee-house grunge, also feels different than many New York bookstores. Many of the nearly 100 people on the staff were wearing some combination of sandals, coveralls or headbands, with the occasional pierced body part and tattoo offering further 20-something credentials. A mural stretched across one wall shows a surreal cityscape of books and skyline that seems modeled on a 1930's-era labor organizing poster.
"New York is the capital not just of publishing, but of reading and writing," Ms. Gillespie said. "That means a certain level of expectation that you don't get elsewhere, except maybe in the Northwest."
Some reactions to the new store were more down to earth, though. At the World Trade Center Green Market, which sells organic produce amid the giant office towers of multinational commerce, one strength of the store is that it brings large-scale street-level commerce to an area that can seem a little overwhelming and forbidding, produce sellers said.
"The bathrooms are very nice," said Joan Esposito, a 27-year-old produce vendor from Brooklyn who was sipping a latte in the store's cafe. "That's what we at the farmers' market care about."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Borders Books and Music, a midwestern chain, has opened a branch at 5 World Trade Center in lower Manhattan. It offers books, records, periodicals, armchairs and what has become the obligatory coffee bar. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (98%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS BOOKS AND MUSIC; BARNES & NOBLE BORDERS GROUP INC (98%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDERS BOOKS AND MUSIC; BARNES & NOBLE NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) BOOKSTORES (92%); MUSIC STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BOOK PUBLISHING (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK ELLA FITZGERALD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



92 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: THE KURDS;
'History's Losers' Fight Neighbors and Each Other, Often Assisted by Foes

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: DIYARBAKIR, Turkey, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Few peoples on earth have tasted as much defeat and betrayal as the Kurds. Although they are 20 million strong and have lived in the same swath of mountainous land for 2,000 years, they have no true friends and an imposing array of enemies.
"When elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers, and when elephants make love, the grass also suffers," said an Italian aid worker who until a few days ago lived in the Kurdish city of Erbil. "That proverb fits the Kurds perfectly. They are the grass in this part of the world. Whatever happens, they get stomped on." 
 The battle for Erbil reflects the desperation that drives the Kurdish factions. One faction has forged an alliance with Iran and another with Iraq, although the Governments of both countries have committed atrocities against Kurds in the past and may do so again.
History and big-power diplomacy have denied the Kurds a country of their own.
Though the United States has become enmeshed in Kurdish politics and has threatened, and now used, military action to protect Iraqi Kurds, neither the United States nor other outside powers support Kurdish independence, in large part because of fears of stirring up an already volatile region.
American efforts to bring the two factions together, which were active as recently as a week ago, have proven fruitless and may only have stoked Iraq's suspicions.
In recent decades Kurdish guerrilla groups have waged major uprisings against the Turkish, Iranian and Iraqi Governments. Their revolts have not only been met with ruthless repression, but have led to internal feuds and back-stabbing that have crippled what might have become a formidable Kurdish movement.
The list of former allies who have betrayed the Kurds is impressive. President Wilson endorsed their goal of statehood at the end of World War I, but after oil was discovered in part of the proposed Kurdish state, France, Britain and Turkey joined to block its creation.
During World War II, a Soviet-backed Kurdish force carved an independent nation out of northern Iran, but it collapsed after a few months of major-power intrigues.
Leaders of countries where the Kurds live have often sponsored Kurdish rebellions in neighboring lands while massacring Kurds on their own territory. Syria, for example, tolerates no expression of Kurdish identity within its borders, but shelters and equips a large force of Kurds fighting against Turkey.
After the Persian Gulf war in 1991, the United States and its allies sent troops and civilian aid workers to deliver food and other emergency supplies to Iraqi Kurds who fled across the border into the mountains of Turkey when President Hussein's forces moved north to put down a Kurdish uprising.
The allies, who continue to assist refugees remaining in Turkey, set up camps in northern Iraq for those who could be persuaded to return, then established an "exclusion zone" to protect Kurds living in that part of the country.
But rivalry between the two Kurdish factions inside the zone have led one to reconcile with Iraq and another to forge at least a temporary alliance with Iran.
As a result, the United States has faced the rude shock of seeing groups that it has protected for five years suddenly emerging as friends of two of the world's most virulently anti-American governments.
Leaders of the feuding Kurdish factions in Iraq personify the passions that have divided Kurds and made it easier for outsiders to manipulate them.
Massoud Barzani, who heads the clan-based Kurdistan Democratic Party, has now evidently concluded that cooperating with President Hussein is the party's only realistic option, even though the Iraqi leader disowned a 1970 autonomy accord and his forces killed three of Mr. Barzani's brothers.
Mr. Barzani's rival, Jalal Talabani, broke away and formed the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan 20 years ago. The two groups worked together to govern the "exclusion zone" in the early 1990's, but their competition has degenerated into violence. Seeking an ally, Mr. Talabani turned to Iran.
If one belief binds all of the governments in this turbulent region, it is implacable opposition to the idea of an independent Kurdish state. All fear that such a country would be an unpredictable and destabilizing factor in the region.
The same is true of powers outside the region. During a recent visit to Turkey, the third-ranking official in the State Department, Peter Tarnoff, asserted that the United States "remains firmly opposed to the creation of an independent Kurdish state."
Turkey's policy toward its Kurdish minority reflects the fierce determination of all countries in the region to crush Kurdish nationalism. Thousands of Turkish soldiers have died fighting a Marxist-oriented Kurdish army during the last five years, and the conflict has crippled Turkey's economic development plans as well as harming its reputation abroad.
Nonetheless, the Government shows no willingness to compromise with either the guerrillas or with nonviolent Kurdish political parties. The recent emergence of a Muslim-oriented Turkish Prime Minister, Necmettin Erbakan, has introduced a new factor. But whether he wants governments in the region to join in crushing Kurdish insurgencies or in offering Kurds political concessions is not yet clear.
"We are history's losers," a Kurdish merchant in Diyarbakir lamented this week. "Whether we brought it on ourselves I don't know, but this is our fate."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (75%); GULF STATES (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (75%); GULF STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KURDS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); MOUNTAINS (77%); REFUGEES (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); DESERT STORM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICS (72%); WORLD WAR I (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



93 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Focus at Lab Groundbreaking Is Biotech Research, and Jobs

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: STONY BROOK, L.I., Sept. 3

 BODY:
The State University at Stony Brook broke ground today on a $40 million biotechnology research and teaching center, the first new academic building on the campus in two decades.
"This is where the battle against the health threats of cancer, AIDS, Lyme disease and other diseases will be fought and won," Gov. George E. Pataki said during the ceremonies. 
 The six-story building, called the Center for Molecular Medicine and Biology Learning Laboratories, is to be completed by 1999.
"Biotech is a billion-dollar industry in New York State," said Shirley Strum Kenny, the university's president. "This facility will have a tremendous impact on the Long Island economy as it continues to grow and employ people in the biotechnical and related fields." She said the expansion of biotechnology research at Stony Brook, coupled with the university's collaboration with the nearby Brookhaven National Laboratory and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories, would help insure that the biotech industry played a critical part in Long Island's future.
Dr. Gail Habicht, a professor of pathology and interim vice president for research at Stony Brook, said the new center would serve as a bridge between the university's life sciences department and the School of Medicine at Stony Brook.
"There are several new technologies that can be brought to bear in several promising areas in biology and medicine," she said.
When the center opens, it is expected to help advance research in human genetics, cell development, structural biology, emerging pathogens and cancer, Dr. Habicht said.
For example, she said that in the area of pathogens, a state-supported effort at Stony Brook for the study, diagnosis and treatment of Lyme disease would be expanded at the new center. She said Stony Brook researchers were poised to develop a vaccine against the tick-borne bacterial disease in collaboration with scientists at Brookhaven.
"The new center will also enable an all-out attack on cancer and help advance Stony Brook's work with patients with AIDS," she said.
Biotechnology is one of the fastest-growing industries in the nation, and Long Island is making it a focus for its own growth, said Valerie Zurblis Scibilia, a spokeswoman for the Long Island Association, a business group.
"It's where the high-paying jobs are that would replace those lost during the collapse of the defense industry," she said. "There are now more than 50 biotech firms on Long Island, and their growth rate is faster than the national average. The new facility at Stony Brook will help to attract even more."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT STONY BROOK COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (56%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT STONY BROOK BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESEARCH; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); LYME DISEASE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); CANCER (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); PATHOLOGY (77%); BACTERIA (77%); AIDS & HIV (77%); TICK BORNE DISEASES (77%); BITES & STINGS (77%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (76%); VACCINES (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (64%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



94 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Texas Immigrants Worry As Cuts in Welfare Loom

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Aug. 29

 BODY:
Here on the Texas-Mexico border, officials have long had an emergency plan for the occasional hurricane that rampages through this tropical stretch of the Rio Grande Valley. But now they need an emergency response to another disturbance that is bearing down on this area and others across the country: the new Federal welfare legislation.
In poverty-plagued Hidalgo County, one of every 12 to 15 people -- county and state officials are still trying to reconcile their figures -- is a legal immigrant who stands to lose food stamps next year under the welfare overhaul signed by President Clinton on Aug. 22. The law aims to save $55 billion in Federal spending over the next six years, in large part by cutting benefits to legal residents who are not American citizens. 
 In sheer numbers, places like El Paso, Houston and New York have more legal immigrants facing welfare cuts. But measured proportionally, Census Bureau statistics indicate that no area in the country would be harder hit by the new law's cuts on immigrant benefits than this part of the border. And the cuts are causing anxiety for thousands of people here and threatening to drain millions of dollars from a county that is already one of the poorest in the United States.
While the general intent of the law is to prod more people into work, local officials and people who work in relief agencies here doubt that it will produce the intended effect because the unemployment rate in Hidalgo County is 18.6 percent, more than three times the state and national averages.
All told, more than 32,000 legal immigrants will stop receiving food stamps by next summer under the new welfare law. Combined with a smaller number of elderly and disabled people who stand to lose Supplemental Security Income benefits, the county expects an overall loss of $18 million to $31 million annually.
"That is simply a huge amount to this economy," said Paul M. Vazaldua Jr., the official in charge of coordinating a response to the changes in welfare policy. So far that response has mainly consisted of drafting pleas to President Clinton and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. "We are getting hammered," Mr. Vazaldua said.
Mr. Clinton has said repeatedly that he signed the welfare measure despite grave reservations about the severity of cuts it imposes on legal immigrants, who in many cases have lived in the United States for years and paid taxes. Many are awaiting citizenship.
And though the President has pledged to try to soften the cuts if he is re-elected, they are a major part of the budget savings under the new law, and it is unclear whether he could succeed in getting Congress to go along with any changes.
Governor Bush said this week that he is opposed to plans to cut off benefits for elderly and disabled legal immigrants.
"We ought to take care of these people in the state of Texas," he said. But he has not yet formally proposed a way to do so.
Still, as a general rule, the immediate impact of the new law is less crisis than confusion. The law gives the state up to one year to go through a complicated process of "recertifying" legal immigrants and determining whether there are mitigating factors -- like a disability or long work history -- that could allow them to keep their benefits.
So people here wait to see what will happen. Some of those most directly affected by the cuts seem to be almost fatalistic about them. Between the cuts being imposed by faraway Washington and the ripple effects felt along the border of problems in the Mexican economy, there is a widespread feeling here that the Rio Grande Valley is under siege.
"We're on quicksand between two countries here," said Ruben Cavazos Sr., the owner of Ruben's Grocery, a market that has been something of an institution for more than 20 years in a poor neighborhood in South McAllen. More than half the customers routinely buy their groceries there with food stamps.
"We've been here for a long time, and our customers are loyal," said Mr. Cavazos's son, Ruben Jr., a manager at the store. He said he, his parents and a brother who also helps run the store are deeply worried about the effect of the cuts on both their customers and the family business.
"And you think, well, people will always have to eat," he continued. "That seems like a basic thing. But what if they simply have no way to pay for their food?"
Among customers at the store, feelings about the impending cuts range from intense trepidation to an almost blithe, distant awareness that maybe something happened in Washington recently that may or may not have an impact here someday.
"We haven't gotten any kind of letter or anything like that from the Government yet, so I'm not too worried," said Maria Redondo, 56, whose retired husband, a Mexican citizen who lived in McAllen off and on for 15 years working at various jobs, and receives more than $400 a month in Social Security benefits.
Under the terms of the new welfare law, those payments could be cut off unless her husband can produce documentation showing that he worked in the United States during 40 different three-month periods or that he is disabled, say officials with the Texas Department of Human Services in Austin.
"The whole thing is like a hurricane," Mrs. Redondo said of the welfare law with a small laugh. "It may look like it's blowing this way, but it could turn around and blow someplace else and no one will be hurt. That's what a lot of people are hoping."
But other customers at Ruben's who are facing welfare cuts are clearly worried.
"I've heard they will take this away," said 24-year-old Flor Esthela Cantu, a legal resident, holding the electronic "Lone Star" card that is now used in place of the usual coupons by most food stamp recipients in Texas.
Pointing to her children, 16-month-old Sandra Leticia and 3-year-old Gustavo, she added: "Things are just so tight already, I don't know how we would be able to take care of them. I really don't. But we would have to try to adjust."
Even though her husband, who also is a legal resident, has found generally steady work as a carpenter, and Mrs. Cantu occasionally makes money by selling food she cooks in her home, the couple is still living well below the poverty line and has received monthly food stamp benefits in recent months ranging from $66 to $313.
Many people said the new welfare law would make them redouble their efforts to become citizens, which would allow them to requalify for some benefits.
"But it's very expensive," said Susana Herrera, 49, who came across the border from Matamoros 11 years ago and worked sporadically as a field picker. She ticked off the costs -- $95 for the application, $5 for fingerprints, $12 for photographs -- and seemed daunted by the prospect of ever having that much cash.
Thelma M. Garza, executive director of the United Way in Hidalgo County, said an umbrella group of 55 relief agencies had already begun meeting in anticipation of a growing demand for food from the indigent.
The Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley, a nonprofit group partly financed by the United Way, already dispenses about 200,000 meals a year. Asked how much she thought the demand would increase, Ms. Garza replied: "That's simply a huge question mark right now. But absolutely, we do expect it to grow."
Juan Antonio Flores, a policy planner for the Texas Department of Human Services's Office of Immigration and Refugee Affairs, said the state is still sifting through an interpretation of the new law. But its preliminary estimate is that about 187,000 immigrants now in Texas legally will lose food stamps; 22,000 will lose welfare, and 53,160, all elderly or disabled, will be cut off from Supplemental Security Income.
The food stamp cuts will hit hardest here in Hidalgo County, he said, with about 8 percent of county residents losing the benefits. By contrast, about 5 percent of El Paso County's 590,000 people will be cut off, as will 1 percent of the 2.8 million people in Houston and surrounding Harris County.
In Hidalgo, the economic impact will be felt throughout the county, said Marcia Kinsey, an analyst with the Center for Public Policy Priorities, an Austin-based research organization that monitors issues affecting low-income Texans.
"Absolutely -- food stamps are not a vague public benefit," she said. "Whether they wind up at a supermarket or a mom and pop store on the corner, they are dollars that go directly into a community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flor Esthela Cantu, shopping last week at Ruben's Grocery in McAllen, Tex., said she feared losing food stamp benefits under the new welfare law. With her were her son, Gustavo, left, and daughter, Sandra Leticia. (Bruce Lee Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE -- Hidalgo County: Portrait of Poverty" lists population, poverty level, income and unemployment statistics fof Hidalgo County, Texas. (Source: Texas Dept. of Human Services; Center for Public Policy Priorities/Office of Benedictine Resource Center)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (97%); 

CITY: MCALLEN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HIDALGO COUNTY (TEX); UNITED STATES; TEXAS; UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (97%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOOD STAMPS ; AGED IMMIGRATION (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REFUGEES (78%); POVERTY RATES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STATISTICS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CENSUS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); AGING (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (63%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



95 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Another Sign Of Strength At Factories

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Factory activity expanded for the third consecutive month in August, an industry group reported today, but because analysts and bond traders had been braced for an even stronger performance, the report was met with some relief and the bond market recovered from an early morning drop.
Still, in the view of many analysts, the report, by the National Association of Purchasing Management, further undermined hopes that the pace of growth in the economy would moderate enough on its own to persuade the Federal Reserve not to raise interest rates. 
 The purchasing managers' index accelerated to 52.6 points for the month, with most components moving up, after a July report showing that expansion had virtually halted. However, the rise was far less than feared after a poll of purchasing managers in the Chicago area that was published last week.
The initial market weakness appeared to reflect American air strikes against Iraq, which could lead to higher oil prices, and speculation that the Federal Reserve may be disposed toward a half-point increase in short-term rates to restrain the economy, instead of the one-quarter-point increment that had been expected.
In a separate tally, the index of leading indicators edged up two-tenths of 1 percent in July, the sixth straight advance in this forecasting gauge after declines in four of the preceding six months.
Many analysts shared the view of Donald H. Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, that the economy was still likely to slow on its own from the unsustainable 4.8 percent pace during the second quarter of the year and that the Fed could probably avoid raising rates, at least this month.
But they are growing less sure of this outcome in light of repeated but still inconclusive figures that portray surprising resilience. "I will tell you, I'm nervous," Mr. Straszheim said. "Mixed evidence is creating market schizophrenia."
But others, including Maury N. Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber, contended that accelerated inflation remained quite unlikely and that the Fed would thus have no need to tighten monetary policy.
Mr. Harris said that various sources of recent strength, like the housing and automotive sectors, were on the wane, that banks were being more cautious in their lending and that American economic capacity had grown substantially at a time of ample global capacity.
And he also argued that there was likely to be little upward pressure on pay, the chief business cost. "The same people who gave you downsizing are those making decisions on wages," Mr. Harris added.
Brian S. Wesbury, economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson in Chicago, told clients that today's figures showed that the economy "is not as strong as feared."
The survey of purchasing managers, the corporate officials who order items ranging from soap to machinery, showed the overall index rising 2.4 points, regaining more than half the July decline, which had carried the index down to 50.2. Readings below 50 indicate that the manufacturing sector is contracting.
Among the various components, production jumped to 57 from 52.4, the fastest pace since January 1995, while new orders moved up to 55.6 from 54 in July. The employment index rose to 48.2 from 45.5.
The inflation components were mixed, with prices paid moving to 47.4 from 44.5 but still falling, while supplier deliveries -- a favorite of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, were subject to greater delays for the third consecutive month.
As for the leading index, which is composed of indicators that tend to reach cyclical turning points before the economy in general, the July rise of two-tenths of 1 percent was paced positively by a smaller decline in the price of sensitive materials and by lower first-time claims for state unemployment insurance. In all, advances were posted by 6 of the 11 index components.
Negative influences were a shorter average workweek and lower stock prices. For the latest six months, all the components increased.
The report, from the Conference Board, also showed that the indexes of coincident and lagging indicators rose one-tenth of 1 percent and six-tenths of 1 percent, respectively. This meant that the coincident-lagging ratio, which many regard as a better forecasting tool than the leading index, declined for the first time since March.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" tracks indes of 11 indicators designed to "lead," or predict overall economic activity, from February 1995 through July 1996. (Source: The Conference Board)
 
Table: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" lists components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from June to July. (Source: The Conference Board) (pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; CONFERENCE BOARD MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GRIFFIN KUBIK STEPHENS & THOMPSON INC (61%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; CONFERENCE BOARD NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MAURY N HARRIS (67%); DONALD H STRASZHEIM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



96 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
Dole Is Facing a Tough Sell In a Suburb of Swing Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: MORENO VALLEY, Calif., Sept. 2

 BODY:
If the 1996 Presidential election is to be fought out in bedroom communities like this home to endless subdivisions -- and some of the most independent-minded voters in America -- there is worrisome news for Bob Dole.
Many women, even those who have long backed Republicans, are furious at the party and its nominee for their positions on social issues. And while the economic recovery has passed Moreno Valley by, voters tend not to blame President Clinton. 
 Voters here are deeply unenthusiastic about their choices.
"It's depressing to me that in a party of 40 million, the best they could come up with is Bob Dole," said Jeff Barnes, 42, who referred to the approximate vote for George Bush in 1992.
Like many other Republicans interviewed, Mr. Barnes, who works for a land management company, said that the only thing that would stop him from abandoning his party was the presence of Jack Kemp on the ticket, although he acknowledged, "I know the Vice President doesn't have a whole lot of importance in policy."
As for Mr. Dole's plan for a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut, he said, "It's politics, and I don't think it's really feasible."
It is not that voters here particularly like Mr. Clinton, or Ross Perot, but they seem resigned to another Clinton Administration.
"With Clinton, we know he's going to waffle -- I call him Waffle Willie -- but let him waffle," said Barbara Brown, a homemaker who is "past 60."
With no deep political roots, voters in this sprawl of stucco houses that is part of the "inland empire" 75 miles east of Los Angeles are among the most sought after by Democrats, Republicans and independents. In 1992, voters here helped propel Bill Clinton into the White House; four years earlier, they overwhelmingly backed George Bush.
Based on dozens of random Labor Day interviews here, it appears that as Mr. Dole begins the final nine-week push against Mr. Clinton, he faces a formidable challenge if he is to persuade the swing voters of Moreno Valley to swing his way.
The attitudes toward Mr. Clinton among the voters have clearly softened since March 1995, when the Republican takeover of Congress was fresh in people's minds. In a series of interviews at that time, voters were politically tortured: even Democrats expressed great hostility toward Mr. Clinton, and many voters were suspicious of the new Speaker, Newt Gingrich.
But now, voters in this city, which sprang up in the 1980's from an expanse of orange groves and scrub land, seem far more comfortable with Mr. Clinton. Concerns about Mr. Gingrich also seem to have receded, perhaps because he has stayed out of the spotlight in recent months.
Yet the lack of enthusiasm for Mr. Dole was striking; even most Republicans who said they would vote for him said it would be out of party loyalty or because they liked Mr. Kemp, the former Housing Secretary and New York Congressman.
Steve Thornburgh, a 42-year-old special education teacher, said he would "vote my party" for Mr. Dole, "but I'm more pleased with Kemp -- he's a little broader in his views." Asked about Mr. Dole's tax-cut plan, he said, "I'll believe it when I see it. It's campaign stuff."
Two themes that spell trouble for Mr. Dole emerged again and again in the interviews: The annoyance of most women interviewed about the Republican Party platform, despite Mr. Dole's efforts to leave the platform behind, particularly his call for tolerance on abortion, and the indifference, or opposition, to Mr. Dole's economic prescriptions.
Certainly, the economy has taken a turn for the worse in this once-booming city of 130,000, partly because of drastic military cutbacks. Orange signs everywhere proclaim, "Lender Repo Open House." And many middle-class residents groused that these houses were being bought up by low-income people through Federal subsidies.
Yet even as they lamented the shuttered stores at the Moreno Valley Mall, virtually every person interviewed, including staunch Republicans, dismissed as a political ploy Mr. Dole's plan to lift the economy with a tax cut.
"Dole wants to give money back to the people to the point where it's going to hurt us," said Patty Marcus, a 40-year-old nurse who backed Mr. Bush in 1988 and 1992 but now plans to vote for Mr. Clinton.
Ms. Marcus said character questions surrounding Mr. Clinton "still bug me a little bit." And she said she would have preferred sticking with her party, if only she could understand Mr. Dole's position on social issues.
"Dole wants to rule the family," she said. "He is so for the family that it's going to hurt us in the end. When men take a position on abortion, I have a problem when they want to tell us how to live our lives."
Jane Richey, 72, a retired interior designer, said that last year she switched her registration to Democratic from Republican. "I had been a Republican all my life," Mrs. Richey said, "but the Republicans are just in outer space, 50 years back in time. Regardless if you like Dole, I hate the Republican platform."
She derided the platform as too rigid in opposing abortion and in denying all but emergency health care to the children of illegal immigrants.
Explaining her decision to support Mr. Clinton, Mrs. Richey said, "He's done a lot, and he is more pro-woman."
Many independent-minded voters dismissed Mr. Perot -- who drew 23 percent of the vote here four years ago, better than the nearly 19 percent he won nationally -- as too unstable to deserve their vote.
"I don't think Perot has the political background to actually be President," said Jennifer Wooster, 25, who teaches third and fourth grades. Yet she will vote for him anyway, Ms. Wooster said, because "I'm interested in having a third party arise."
Having little confidence in Mr. Perot, many voters explained that they were left with a choice between "the lesser of two evils." For some, that means Mr. Clinton.
Consciously or not, Jerry Alendarez, 30, repeated the train metaphor that Mr. Clinton has repeated relentlessly since the train trip that carried him to the Democratic convention in Chicago last week.
"A lot of stuff he promised hasn't trickled down to us, but at least he's on the right track," said Mr. Alendarez, a Democrat who teaches business at a local high school. "We're safe. There's not a lot of turmoil in the economy."
Another Democrat, Derek Galloway, 25, a juvenile counselor, was taken by a different pitch from Mr. Clinton: that he serves as a check on the Republican-led Congress, assuming that Republicans will retain control after the November elections.
"Clinton gives in too easily," Mr. Galloway said, "and in that sense, he reflects a lot of weakness. But if Dole's in there, the Republicans will have too much power. There needs to be a balance."
Gary Stewart, 42, a state engineer who voted for Mr. Bush in 1988 and Mr. Clinton in 1992, is not so concerned about Republicans controlling Congress and the White House. But Mr. Stewart said that he was leaning again toward Mr. Clinton -- though hardly enthusiastically -- and that Mr. Dole's tax-cut plan had helped push him in that direction.
"I'm a Government worker for the State of California," he said, "and people are worried that their services are getting cut. And they have to realize it's taxes that pay for those services. I wouldn't mind a tax cut myself. But that means 15 percent of the country's services are going to get cut, too."
Jan and Paul Szuszkiewicz are typical of voters who stand as an impediment to Mr. Dole's march to the White House. Both are registered Republicans. Both plan to vote for Mr. Clinton, he for the second time and she for the first.
"When he made the statement that tobacco isn't harmful to your health, it let me know where he was coming from," said Mr. Szuszkiewicz, 42, a marketer for a publishing company. "Plus, I'd like to see a check and balance."
Mr. Dole never said tobacco was not harmful, but he created an uproar when he questioned whether nicotine was addictive.
Mrs. Szuszkiewicz, 41, a fifth grade teacher, offered her own reasons for spurning Mr. Dole "I'm a Republican who's angry that the party has disenfrancised people who are in favor of public education," she said. "And Dole is not pro-choice; that's very invasive to a woman's right to choose."
And Mrs. Brown, the homemaker who referred to Waffle Willie, said she voted for Mr. Bush and Ronald Reagan but could not bring herself to back Mr. Dole.
"He blames everything on Clinton," she said.
Contending that Mr. Dole appeared embarrassed in his acceptance speech by his three decades in Congress, Mrs. Brown said, "If you notice when he made his speech, he forget to say anything about all his years in Congress."
Even many loyal Democrats here praised Mr. Clinton for signing a welfare bill that liberals have branded as a betrayal of party principles.
"I've been on that twice," said Jean Simmons, 63, recalling that she had been on welfare and explaining that Mr. Clinton had done "a darn good job" trying to change the system. "It's been overdue."
Mrs. Simmons's daughter-in-law, Angela White, 30, a department store manager, had even stronger feelings.
"That should have been done a long time ago," Mrs. White said. "I'm sorry, but I don't want to pay for any of those people. I don't want them to take a cent. I like Clinton. I like the fact that he eats at McDonald's and plays the sax."
Her husband, Donald White, 33, who makes stereo speakers and was tinkering with a pair in his garage, chimed in about how he had no patience for Mr. Perot.
"He's Mr. Run, Mr. I'm-Not-Going-to-Run," Mr. White said. "He's as bad as Magic Johnson: I'm going to play this year. I'm not going to play this year."
Mrs. Simmons said it was no wonder her family was sticking with Bill Clinton. "He's not a perfect man," she said. "But who's perfect?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOYAL DEMOCRATS -- Jean Simmons, left, and her son and daughter-in-law, Donald and Angela White, praised the President for signing the bill to overhaul welfare, a measure liberals have denounced. EX-REPUBLICAN -- Jane Richey, a retired designer, formally left the party in protest of its platform. SKEPTICAL REPUBLICAN -- Patty Marcus dismissed the Dole tax plan as a political ploy. LAPSED REPUBLICANS -- Paul and Jan Szuszkiewicz, with their children, Jill, left, and Kristen, usually vote Republican but not this year. (Photographs by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MORENO VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; ABORTION; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; VOTER BEHAVIOR ; PUBLIC OPINION; WOMEN; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); TAX LAW (71%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



97 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Case May Fit Pattern of Singling Out a Child

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
As investigators examined the tortured family history of Nadine Lockwood yesterday, child welfare experts said her death appeared to conform to a pattern seen in extreme cases of abuse: one child is singled out among several siblings as the focus of an abusive parent's irrational rage.
Four-year-old Nadine, who was one of eight siblings, died less than a year after the beating death of 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo, whose killing focused attention on the failings of the city's child welfare system. Elisa herself was one of six siblings, and the mothers in both cases appeared not to have physically abused the victims' brothers and sisters. While three of the children of Nadine's mother, Carla Lockwood, were born with drugs in their systems, and one of those was abandoned at birth, investigators say Nadine was the only one who who bore the outward signs of physical abuse. 
 Psychologists and child welfare workers say that the singling out, or scapegoating, of an individual child is not universal, as abusive parents are sometimes indiscriminate in their violence or neglect. But a growing body of cases over the last two decades shows that it is not uncommon for one child to bear the brunt of physical abuse.
"I think of it as something like a Cinderella phenomenon," said Leah Harrison, associate director of the Child Protection Center at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
"It is very common for one child to be picked out and brutalized, and for whatever reason, Nadine was the one," she said.
The experts say cases of scapegoating often involve the redirection of anger that an abusive parent feels toward an absent spouse or some other adult. In other cases, pent-up rage may be unleashed on a single child simply because that child is hyperactive, colicky, disabled, or shows personality traits that the parent does not expect or like.
"It can simply result from the wrong chemistry between two people," said Anne Cohn Donnelly, director of the National Committee to Prevent Child Abuse in Chicago. "The abused child can be the youngest or the oldest, it can remind the parent of someone else, or it can simply have a personality that pushes the parent over the edge."
While the motives behind the mistreatment of Nadine Lockwood have yet to be fully understood by investigators, experts said yesterday that statements given by her mother and estranged father may provide clues. Both suggested that Nadine bore a physical resemblance to her father, whose absence from his family and past conflicts with Nadine's mother may have provoked her rage.
"The most surprising thing about this case is that the mother seems to acknowledge why she did it," Ms. Donnelly said. "Usually they don't even know."
Another similar case was that of a 5-year-old girl who has been publicly identified only as Marisol. She was found near death by the police in a Morningside Heights apartment, having been beaten, locked in a closet and nearly starved by her mother. But her four siblings in the same apartment showed few outward signs of abuse.
The abuse in that case also appeared to stem from the mother's psychological associations between the abused child and her absent father, since Marisol had a different father than her four siblings, who were spared much of the abuse.
Whether the recent New York City cases involved one child or every sibling, they reflect broader economic and social patterns that contribute to child abuse, experts in the field say. The most severe cases often involve large families headed by a single parent and living in poverty.
"There is a basic correlation between child abuse and poverty, and to the extent that large families put greater demands on scarce resources you will find more abuse in large families," said David M. Tobis, a sociologist and director of research for the Center for the Study of Family Policy at Hunter College.
Experts point to other similarities between the deaths of Nadine and Elisa. In both cases, the abusive parents were mothers who officials said had histories of cocaine abuse and who told the police that they had been abused by their own parents.
But while such similarities provide no rationale for child abuse, and probably offer little guidance to help prevent future crimes, the experts said the mounting recognition of the situation in which one child is singled out for abuse should provide warning signals for child care officials.
"We know that this pattern makes the job of child care workers more difficult," Ms. Harrison said. "But you can't assume that just because every child in a large family appears to be well treated except for one child that is out sight, that the one child is O.K. "
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILD ABUSE CHILD WELFARE (92%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); FAMILY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; LOCKWOOD, NADINE; LOCKWOOD, CARLA NADINE LOCKWOOD (96%); ELISA IZQUIERDO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



98 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Auto Workers Choose Ford As the Lead Contract Target

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 3

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers union decided today to focus on the Ford Motor Company in national labor negotiations, while continuing talks with General Motors and Chrysler, people close to the negotiations said.
The union's goal is to settle as many issues as possible at all three domestic auto makers before the Sept. 14 expiration of the current three-year national contract, two people close to the talks said. The union will try to resolve the industry's toughest problems with Ford and then demand that the Chrysler Corporation and the General Motors Corporation accept the same terms almost immediately, they said. 
 This strategy represents an abrupt change from the union's approach in talks during the last several decades. Since the early 1950's, the union has recessed talks with two of the auto makers as soon as it has picked a lead company. Only after reaching a deal with the first company has it then tried to persuade the other auto makers to accept the same terms.
The decision to concentrate on Ford reduces the likelihood that a national strike will disrupt the economy or the Presidential campaign this autumn. The auto workers' union has excellent relations with Ford, and Ford executives have a history of devising innovative solutions to intractable labor disputes.
The toughest issue this year is whether the union can win any new restrictions on the auto makers' ability to buy more parts from low-cost outside vendors that are seldom unionized.
Ford already buys much more than half its parts from outside suppliers and needs few concessions from the union on this issue. G.M. has particularly opposed any such restrictions, because it produces the highest proportion of parts in-house. G.M. is also trying to sell auto-parts factories and lower its costs by purchasing more of these parts elsewhere.
G.M. or Chrysler could resist any deal struck by Ford, which Ford is likely to structure to suit its own needs. But G.M. and Chrysler have very low inventories of unsold cars and trucks, and their executives have said in recent weeks that they do not want a strike.
Ford was also the lead company in the last set of negotiations in 1993, drafting a deal that lengthened to three years the period during which newly hired workers can be paid on a lower scale.
That arrangement has helped both Ford and Chrysler, which have been actively hiring workers since 1993, but not G.M., which has only just hired several thousand workers earlier this year and none for many years before that.
The union declined to comment on its moves today. A spokesman for Ford, Jon F. Harmon, said, "Our team is working on the assumption that Ford will continue to be involved actively in whatever transpires over the next two weeks, and that has been our preference all along." He declined to elaborate.
Like Ford, G.M. and Chrysler had sought to be chosen as the lead company in negotiations, the better to control the scope of the contract.
At G.M., Charles C. Licari, a spokesman, was terse when asked about the status of the talks. "Bargaining is continuing here at General Motors, he said. "We had subcommittee meetings today." Chrysler officials also said they looked forward to further negotiations.
Stephen P. Yokich, the U.A.W. president, announced his decision at a meeting this afternoon of the top negotiators from both Ford and the union, people close to the talks said. Mr. Yokich went to Ford after giving a pep talk to union negotiators at Chrysler's headquarters in which he encouraged the bargainers to keep trying to settle outstanding issues even though Chrysler was not the focus of negotiations.
For reasons that are unclear, Mr. Yokich did not make a similar visit to G.M., people close to the union said. The headquarters of G.M. and the union are several miles apart in the city of Detroit, while Chrysler's headquarters are in Auburn Hills, Mich., a remote suburb about 30 miles to the north.
The union's board decided on Aug. 26 that Chrysler would not be the lead company, but that talks should continue at G.M. and Ford. That decision was made partly in the hope that G.M. would make a more generous contract offer, something that appears not to have happened, people close to the union said.
Before the union's decision was known, Scott F. Merlis, an independent analyst in Westport, Conn., said it was hard for G.M. to meet the U.A.W. demands. "They can only make so many concessions because they have a surplus of labor," he said.
Ernest Lofton, the union vice president in charge of negotiations with Ford, said on Monday that the union needed to go to Ford because it was more likely than G.M. to figure out a way to preserve jobs. "Our history with Ford has been one where when we want to get a principle established, we go to Ford," he said. "This year we have a principle, and that principle is job security." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; CHRYSLER CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; SPARE PARTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



99 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: THE G.O.P.;
Muting His Criticism of Clinton, Dole Backs Troops in Iraq Raid

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Eighteen hours after he assailed President Clinton for "weak leadership" in dealing with Saddam Hussein, Bob Dole backed away from his criticism today, instead offering his support "without hesitation or reservation" for American military forces in the Middle East.
"Our thoughts and prayers at this moment are with our men and women who were sent on a difficult mission above the skies of Iraq and in the waters of the region," Mr. Dole told veterans in caps and uniforms at the 78th National Convention of the American Legion here. 
 Mr. Dole and his aides shifted their approach to the Iraq conflict as concerns arose in the Dole camp that his initial harsh review of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy performance -- along with even more severe criticism by Mr. Dole's senior adviser, Senator John S. McCain of Arizona -- had left the Republican candidate subject to accusations that he was undermining national security interests at a time of crisis.
Mr. Dole's tough statements on Monday, which aides suggested today had been a mistake, were particularly striking because he has a long history of bipartisanship in foreign affairs.
Mr. Dole's political position is further complicated by his own history on Iraq. Mr. Dole voted against imposing economic sanctions on Mr. Hussein's Government in July 1990 to retaliate for chemical gas attacks on the Kurds, and he once stirred negative reactions before the war with Iraq by suggesting after he had met with Mr. Hussein that "there might be a chance to bring this guy around."
Still, Mr. Dole avoided offering support for Mr. Clinton himself or his policies today. Instead, Mr. Dole set high and unlikely objectives for the Iraqi intervention -- such as Mr. Hussein's ceasing all support of terrorism -- that aides said were intended to allow the candidate to raise the issue again once this crisis passes. Speaking of the American forces' carrying out the punitive raid on Iraqi military positions, Mr. Dole said, "They are freedom's heroes, and we support them without hesitation or reservation."
Mr. Dole, who was wearing an American Legion service cap from Hall No. 99 in his hometown of Russell, Kan., added: "In matters like this, all of us think not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans. And as Americans, we wish our troops success and safety."
Those remarks were a contrast to what he said on an airport runway shortly after arriving here on Monday. Responding to questions shouted to him by reporters as he shook the hands of supporters, Mr. Dole decried Mr. Clinton's "weak leadership" in foreign affairs. "We probably shouldn't have to be doing what we're doing," Mr. Dole said.
And Mr. Dole nodded his agreement with remarks that Senator McCain had made in introducing him at the rally moments before. Senator McCain had mocked "this Administration's feckless photo-op foreign policy," and asserted, "This Administration believes in foreign policy as social work."
In recent days the frustration in the Dole camp with events in Iraq has been obvious. The developing crisis obscured Mr. Dole's Labor Day campaign kick-off and, in the view of campaign advisers, threatens to wrest away the one issue in which he believed he had dominance over the younger President: foreign policy expertise.
The resulting tension between Mr. Dole's campaign and the White House kept bubbling to the surface throughout the day. One of Mr. Dole's senior aides intimated that the White House was pushing reporters to write stories examining Mr. Dole's reaction to the Iraqi crisis. (There was no independent evidence of that.) Another suggested that the Clinton Administration had leaked the news of the planned attack in an attempt to divert attention from Mr. Dole's Labor Day campaigning.
The White House did not notify Mr. Dole of the intervention until about 10 hours after it happened. Mr. Dole first learned of it from news service reports. The first actual contact between the Clinton and Dole camps did not come until a five-minute conversation between the President and his opponent at 9:25 A.M.
In recounting that conversation, Nelson Warfield, the candidate's press secretary, said that Mr. Dole had informed the President he would discuss Iraq in his speech today, "but he assured the President that he wouldn't say anything to offend him or any other American."
Mr. Warfield said Mr. Dole had not intended to signal to Mr. Clinton any concern that his previous public statements on the subject might have given offense. "Bob Dole, among all men in public life today, has certainly demonstrated that he was willing to stand with the President," Mr. Warfield said.
In Washington, Mr. Dole's communications director, John Buckley, defended Mr. Dole's attack Monday night, saying that he and Senator McCain had spoken before the missiles had actually been fired. "This is prior to action being taken," Mr. Buckley said. "Once action is taken, he is very supportive."
Still, Mr. Dole's advisers acknowledged today that Mr. Dole and his surrogate, Senator McCain, had stumbled on Monday. They said their remarks were harsher than intended. Senator McCain was supposed to do then what Mr. Dole did today -- raise broad questions about Mr. Clinton's foreign policy expertise and set standards by which Mr. Dole would want to judge the success of the action.
But Mr. McCain, in a conversation on Mr. Dole's campaign plane on Monday before he spoke, made clear that he thought the Dole campaign had every right to attack Mr. Clinton, crisis or not. He said Mr. Clinton had bragged, unjustifiably in his view, of foreign policy successes in the Middle East and Northern Ireland.
"I think it's unusual for the President of the United States to be claiming foreign policy successes that were actually complete failures," Mr. McCain said.
Mr. Dole's policy and political history on Iraq is a convoluted one. In April 1990, four months before the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, Mr. Dole met with Mr. Hussein. The Iraqi leader complained about a February 1990 editorial on the Voice of America that called Iraq a police state and Mr. Dole, then the Senate minority leader, assured Mr. Hussein -- incorrectly -- that the commentator had been dismissed. Later, Mr. Dole told The Washington Post that because of his meeting with Mr. Hussein, "there might be a chance to bring this guy around."
In July 1990, the House and Senate, citing the gassing of 6,000 Kurds, defied the Bush Administration and voted to impose economic sanctions on Iraq, with Mr. Dole among only 16 Senators opposing the sanctions because he thought they would hurt Kansas wheat farmers. Mr. Dole's fellow Kansan, Senator Nancy Kassebaum, voted for the sanctions, saying, "There comes a time when we have to stand up and be counted."
In November 1990, however, Mr. Dole chided his colleagues for sending divisive signals to Iraq. "I've got to believe that when Saddam Hussein finds that Congress is taking a walk, that he'll say, 'Well, you know, a divided Government, nothing to worry about,' " the Senator said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Support From Congress
 WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 -- Congressional leaders expressed support today for the United States' missile attacks against Iraq.
"I hope that Saddam Hussein and those who are in control of the Iraqi Government clearly understand the resolve and the determination of this Administration and this country," said the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota. While this may be a political year, he said, "on this issue, relating to that country, and in particular that leader, there can be no disunity, there can be no lack of cohesion."
The House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia, said, "I hope that as a result of U.S. military action last night, Saddam Hussein has learned that his brazen defiance of the international community and his brutal treatment of the Kurdish minority in Iraq will not go unpunished."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "All of us think not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans," Bob Dole said after the strike. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEGION (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (70%); TERRORISM (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NAGOURNEY, ADAM BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



100 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

De Benedetti Steps Downs As Olivetti Posts Big Loss
Carlo de Benedetti, the ebullient chairman of Olivetti, stepped down as a result of the company's continued large losses. His job as chairman is expected to be taken by Antonio Tesone, a member of the Olivetti board. Mr. de Benedetti also resigned from the board and was named honorary chairman.
Mr. de Benedetti's decision came as the company reported another loss, one that far exceeded analyst estimates. Pressure also came from fund managers that had bought shares in Olivetti, only to see their value fall. [Page D4.]
 
Trucks Pace Chrysler Sales Rise
Chrysler reported a 9 percent sales rise for August, and analysts expect it to lead the Big Three. Chrysler's car sales slipped 4 percent last month, but truck sales surged 17 percent. Toyota raised prices an average of 1.4 percent, but cut prices of its popular Camry. [D16.]
 
Settlement Reached in Airline Suit
A lawsuit pitting travel agents against five major airlines was settled hours before the case went to Federal court with an agreement in principle in which airlines will pay the agents $87 million to drop the suit but will probably keep limits on commissions for ticket sales. The deal will be presented to the court for approval. [D2.]
 
Oil Shares Pull Blue Chips Higher
Blue-chip stocks roared back from a selloff to end on a strong note, propelled by big gains in oil company shares after American military strikes on Iraqi targets lifted crude oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 32.18 points, at 5,648.39, after falling more than 50 points in the first minutes of the trading session. [D6.]
 
An edgy bond market was calmed by a purchasing managers' report that came in below expectations, easing concern that the Fed would raise interest rates. The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 7.05 percent, down from 7.12 percent on Friday. [D16.]
 
Stratton Oakmont's Latest Offering
Although the S.E.C. calls Stratton Oakmont a boiler-room operation, the firm is still underwriting new issues. Its latest plans to take a company public are for E-Net, which says it has a patented system to transmit voices over the Internet. Market Place. [D6.]
 
A Boston Agency's Expansion Plan
Arnold Communications, the Boston agency that unexpectedly won the Volkswagen of America account nearly 18 months ago, is now vying for national attention.
Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 
Airbus Announces New Jet Orders
Airbus Industrie said it had won $3 billion in new jetliner orders, bringing its orders for the year to $17 billion, triple the figure for all of 1995. The announcement followed Boeing's report of $7.17 billion in new orders. [D16.]
 
Mall Seeks to Restrict Teen-Agers
For teen-agers in Minnesota, the huge Mall of America is a place to shop and see friends. But the mall is not happy with thousands of unsupervised teen-agers in its corridors, so it is imposing a curfew on Friday and Saturday nights for those under 16 years old, who must now be accompanied by an adult. [A1.]
 
Borders Books Takes On Manhattan
Hitting archrival Barnes & Noble in its own backyard, Borders Books and Music opened a huge store in lower Manhattan. [B3.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,648,39, up 32.18
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.05%, down 0.07
The Dollar -- 109.22 yen, up 0.30
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Construction Spending
 July figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.1%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (81%); BOEING CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AIRLINES (88%); BOND MARKETS (86%); BONDS (86%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (83%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); SALES COMPENSATION (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); LITIGATION (71%); TICKET SALES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); AIRCRAFT MFG (55%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CARLO DE BENEDETTI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



101 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: It's Yuppie Heaven in Poland;
Good Pay, Perks and Constant Calls From Headhunters

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WARSAW, Aug. 29

 BODY:
When 31-year-old Radek A. Gronet returned to his homeland four years ago after working in a Chicago law firm, he found an explosive job market hungry for his youth and skills and appreciative of his American-accented English.
He joined the legal department of Coopers & Lybrand's office here, a respectable enough niche, but stayed only a year. Since then, Mr. Gronet has jumped jobs twice, accruing prestige by keeping to United States-based firms and more than quintupling his salary. 
 "When I did the calculus, it was obvious to me I'd have more advantage in Poland than staying in the United States," said Mr. Gronet, who is settling into his new position as a lawyer at Pepsico here after completing two years as an associate in the Warsaw office of Hunton & Williams, a law firm based in Richmond.
His new salary does not equal in dollar terms what his American counterparts would get -- though it probably does in buying power. Pepsico is paying him more than the $4,000 a month he earned at Hunton & Williams, and he gets a company car, as well. He will soon be going on vacation in Italy, and he has just taken out a mortgage for a fancy duplex apartment.
Mr. Gronet's experience, though not representative of the overall labor market in Poland, is hardly unique. When Communism collapsed in 1989, young professionals, by virtue of age and education, were perfectly poised to play a booming job market for personal gain. Now in their mid- to late 20's and early 30's, polished and trained, they bounce from job to job in search of promotion, wider experience, greater responsibility and, of course, better compensation.
They have taken advantage of the surge of foreign companies into Poland since the Communists yielded power. From 1,100 ventures in 1990 that were either foreign-owned or had foreign capital, there are now 27,000 such companies, according to the Polish State Agency for Foreign Investment. After fairly modest initial forays, many of the big multinationals are rapidly expanding.
Most still import chief operating officers from headquarters in the United States or Western Europe, but, increasingly, middle-management positions -- particularly in finance, law and marketing -- are being filled by Poles. To lure experienced people from one job to the next, headhunting firms -- unknown in Communist days -- have multiplied.
These headhunters, whose ads jam special employment sections of the major daily newspapers, have helped set the hectic pace of salary increases.
Now, a Polish marketing manager earns at least $3,000 a month, 10 times the average monthly salary. At the top of the scale, a finance director for a major multinational company -- perhaps the key position for a company operating in the expanding but volatile Polish market -- was recently hired at a base salary of $7,000 a month, said Marek Suchar, director of Executive Search and Selection, one of two dozen headhunting firms in Warsaw.
Mr. Suchar said that salaries for such top professionals had risen as much as tenfold since the early 1990's -- cautioning that the nation's 20 to 30 percent annual inflation had somewhat tempered the increases.
But as competition for these employees increases, other trappings of Western-style compensation packages are taking hold. A 30-year-old Warsaw advertising account manager, who would be hard pressed to get a company car in the United States, has one as a guaranteed perk here.
Next year, Arthur Andersen, the big accounting and consulting firm, will be introducing group life insurance as a benefit for all its employees. Because the company's four-year training program is so prized here, recent recruits get almost daily offers to jump to other firms, according to Renata Hajder, an Arthur Andersen partner. To try to keep these people loyal and motivated, the company will be adding incentives, she said.
"In companies like ours, it is the level of training we provide and the level of exposure to good client cases that matter," Ms. Hajder said. "But in the near future, employers will have to think of more sophisticated packages -- in addition to a car, pensions and stock-option schemes."
In Poland, as in many other European countries, unemployment is much lower in the capital and largest city than in the rest of the country. In Warsaw, the jobless rate is 4.9 percent, compared with a national average of 14.1 percent. Among young professionals, the labor market is even tighter.
Someone with Mr. Gronet's background -- experience in the United States, combined with a good Polish education -- is in highest demand. Mr. Gronet has a law degree from Warsaw University and a master of arts from the University of Illinois in 1990. He worked briefly in Chicago for a law firm with a Warsaw office before deciding that he could do better at home.
When he returned, he was more than willing to be assertive. He took the job in Warsaw with Coopers & Lybrand for a starting salary of $700 a month, which he shrugged off as "peanuts." He asked for a raise, and persuaded Coopers & Lybrand to roughly triple his salary.
"Three to four years ago, the offers were substandard for Polish professionals," Mr. Gronet said. "I said, 'You pay me three times more or I'm out.' They bit the bullet."
When he moved to Hunton & Williams, he said, the real draw -- even though the pay was comparable to that at Coopers -- was the challenge of working on Polish legal problems for Western clients.
He stayed for two years and doubled his salary before moving on to Pepsico, one of his clients at the law firm, because he wanted the broader responsibilities of working in a corporation. In addition to its soft-drink business, Pepsico has opened branches of its fast-food restaurants -- Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Kentucky Fried Chicken -- in Poland. The company is also a majority shareholder in Poland's most prestigious chocolate maker, E. Wedel.
"What was most enjoyable was direct contact with the client, and I realized that working on the other side would give me more satisfaction," he said. "In the everyday life of the corporation, you see how much you can help the corporation. Here, I take care of the scope of the problem, the analysis of the problem and who can solve it."
Even without the benefit of working in the United States, young Poles have learned to be aggressive in climbing the job ladder.
Take Jacek Piszczek, 32, head of the management accounting section at Commercial Union, a British insurance company that started business here four years ago.
Mr. Piszczek graduated as an electrical engineer from Gdansk University and used his engineering skills to get a job at an AT&T manufacturing plant in western Poland in 1992. It paid only $500 a month, "but was a very good line" on his resume, Mr. Piszczek said. Then he entered an M.B.A. program, and at the same time, set up a consulting firm.
He decided that he needed more financial knowledge to fulfill his dream of becoming finance director of a large company. He spotted an opening at Commercial Union and now earns $2,000 a month, drives an Opel Astra provided by the company and reports directly to the finance director.
In advertising, a new profession for post-Communist Poland, people change jobs so quickly that when Young & Rubicam lined up its staff of 45 in Warsaw for the 1994 Christmas card, only eight had appeared in the previous year's card.
"This is a very moving market," said Piotr Gruszczynski, 30, deputy creative director at Young & Rubicam. "The only way to get experienced people is to hire away from other agencies."
Kasia Gorska, 30, returned to Warsaw three months ago after working in Manhattan as studio manager for the photographer Annie Leibovitz. After considering tempting offers from four ad agencies, she settled on Grey International, part of Grey Advertising, where she is head of the production unit.
Ms. Gorska declined to give her salary, except to say that it was equivalent to what she earned in New York. But as the agency's liaison with its international clients -- SmithKline Beecham, the Gerber Foods unit of Sandoz A.G., Procter & Gamble -- she has far greater responsibility.
Mr. Gruszczynski, the Young & Rubicam official, is in some respects an oddity in the advertising market here. A respected theater critic, he was hired three years ago as a copywriter at the agency at $500 a month. After 18 months, he jumped to senior copywriter at $1,000 a month. Now, in his new management position, he earns $2,200 a month and supervises 60 people.
But Mr. Gruszczynski -- whose clients include Philip Morris; the Danone Group, a French producer of packaged foods, and Pepsico -- has made these strides by staying with one company. A rival agency offered to double his salary two years ago, but he said he declined.
For him, like many other young Poles, job satisfaction and creative possibilities are as important as compensation.
"Agencies in Poland are often quite the same and have the same kind of clients," said Mr. Grus-zczynksi, who in his casual white shirt, blue jeans and knapsack still looked more like a writer than a workaholic ad executive. "The difference is in the people who work in them.
"The atmosphere where I am is friendly, like at home. We spend 12 hours a day there. Every week, one of the most interesting questions is: 'Will I have a free weekend or not?' Most often the answer is not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: With his casual white shirt and office toys like boxing gloves, Piotr Gruszczynski, 30, looks more like the writer he was than a workaholic ad executive, whose salary has quadrupled in three years to roughly $2,200 a month; Radek A. Gronet, 31, returned to Warsaw after working in a Chicago law firm. Now a lawyer for Pepsico, Mr. Gronet possesses skills that are in hight demand -- experience in the United States, combined with a Polish education. (Photographs by Tomasz Tomaszewski for the New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Table: "The Price of Talent in Warsaw" lists estimated 1995 salary ranges for some managerial and professional jobs in Warsaw and business centers like Poznan and Crakow. (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); 

COUNTRY: POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: HUNTON & WILLIAMS LLP (91%); PEPSICO INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND; POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); LAWYERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE RADEK AGRONET (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



102 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
Facing Crowding and a Threat
As New York City schools prepared to open amid the worst overcrowding conditions in decades, the president of the teachers' union threatened to keep her members out of any school where conditions posed a danger to students or staff. [B1.]
 
Abuse Reports Were Dismissed
Acting on a report that a mother was starving one of her seven children to death, a child welfare worker evaluated the children last year and came to a different conclusion: "No signs of malnutrition." The encounter with Carla Lockwood and her children -- including Nadine, who was found starved to death on Saturday -- was not the first between the mother and the welfare agency. [Page B1.]
Nadine Lockwood's death appeared to conform to a pattern in which one sibling is singled out for abuse. [B4.]
Mayor Giuliani said it was time to begin blaming families for abuse tragedies. [B4.]
 
Longing for Era of Small Stores
Even a decade after the arrival of the Gap and Benetton on Austin Street in Queens, next to boutiques and bistros owned by locals, some old-timers in Forest Hills Gardens still refer to the short shopping strip as "the Village." But with the opening last month of a Disney Store, "Now it's just commercial," said one resident. "It's not a village anymore." [B1.]
 
High Powered to Higher Power
As the president of the Huntsman Chemical Corporation, Ronald Rasband negotiated acquisitions around the world. But Mr. Rasband left the high-powered world to head a program for missionaries who travel in the metropolitan area in search of converts for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He said the choice was easy. About New York by David Gonzalez. [B1.]
 
Borders Books in Manhattan
Borders Books and Music arrived with a bang in lower Manhattan, with 38,000 square feet of books, periodicals and recordings. For bookbuyers and sellers alike, a new heavyweight player in town (Barnes & Noble being the other) represents a mixed bag of effects. [B3.]
 
Raids on Brooklyn Sweatshops
Four Brooklyn garment factories, including one that produced clothing for a line that Kmart sells under the Kathy Ireland label, have been raided by law-enforcement officials and their owners and managers arrested for operating sweatshops, the Brooklyn District Attorney said. [B3.]
 
Peru May Send American Home
Peru's Government has said it will consider a United States Congressman's proposal that would allow Lori Helene Berenson, a New York woman serving a life sentence in Peru for treason, to be transferred to the United States. [B4.]
 
Jury Remains Despite Call
A Federal jury resumed deliberations on whether three men plotted to bomb American jetliners in Asia, after the judge met with lawyers on both sides and agreed that an unsanctioned telephone call that one of the jurors made to a witness did not compromise the case. Both sides suggested that the unauthorized telephone call would not constitute grounds for an appeal if the three were found guilty. [B4.]
 
Teachers Skeptical on Mandate
New York City public school teachers expressed cynicism about the possibility that state and city officials would provide enough support for the difficult task of meeting a new state mandate to raise standards on Regents exams. [B6.]
 
An unemployed auto mechanic opened fire on police officers responding to a complaint of a domestic dispute at his house on Staten Island. He was later found dead. [B2.]
The State University at Stony Brook broke ground on a $40 million biotechnology center. [B5.]
With the departure of two popular participants, the Special Music School of America faces an uncertain future. [B6.]
 
REGION
 
Crash Search to Resume
With waves subsiding after Long Island's brush with Hurricane Edouard, Navy ships returned to the crash site of Flight 800 and prepared to send divers down to find out if the storm scattered the wreckage. Officials said they hoped to resume the salvage operation quickly. [B5.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
Candidates Borrow Images
Richard A. Zimmer and Robert G. Torricelli kicked off their fall campaigns for the United States Senate by trying to reach voters through the well-known images of others. [B5.]
 
CONNECTICUT
 
$250 Million Budget Surplus
Connecticut finished the fiscal year with its largest budget surplus in nine years, $250 million, the result of a windfall in income tax revenue and efforts to control state spending, officials said. The surplus suggests that the state is emerging from the economic troubles of the first half of the decade. [B5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HUN (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (82%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (66%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (93%); ASIA (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (82%); HUNTSMAN CORP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (93%); ASIA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STARVATION (90%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); RETAILERS (87%); BOOKSTORES (87%); RELIGION (86%); JURY TRIALS (83%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); FAMILY (76%); MAYORS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MUSIC STORES (72%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); APPAREL MFG (65%); LAWYERS (64%); TREASON (64%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (63%); SENTENCING (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



103 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: S.I. Man Is Found Dead in Home After Firing on Police Officers

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
An unemployed auto mechanic opened fire yesterday on police officers responding to a complaint of a domestic dispute at his house on Staten Island, officials said. The mechanic, identified as Michael Nunno, 48, was found dead inside the house, although it was unclear last night if he was killed by the officers' bullets or if he killed himself.
The incident began at 5:50 P.M. when police officers responded to a report of a domestic dispute at 241 Jacques Avenue in the New Dorp section, said Officer Robert Samuel, a spokesman for the Police Department. 
 A judge recently issued a court order of protection for Mr. Nunno's wife, Evelyn, 49, and he was scheduled to appear in court yesterday, although it was not known last night if he kept that court date.
When officers arrived at the house, the gunman fired several shots from a high-powered rifle, striking police cars, and the officers returned fire, Officer Samuel said. He added that the officers said they did not believe they had struck the man.
The incident ended after a nearly two-hour standoff when officers entered the house and found Mr. Nunno dead.
The sound of gunfire, about six shots, sent neighbors seeking shelter under tables and in their basements.
Margaret Rodriguez, 35, of 240 Jacques Avenue, said her husband was in the backyard grilling pork chops for their three children and a friend when he saw Evelyn Nunno through a window, pacing in the living room.
"The next thing we knew, there were gunshots, five or six of them, and then there was a cop car," Mrs. Rodriguez said.
"We jumped to the floor in the dining room near the bay window. Then we ran down into the basement and waited down there until the police told us to leave."
Neighbors said Mrs. Nunno fled and was able to escape injury by ducking behind a tree with her two teen-age sons. The top level of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge was closed for about 15 minutes during rush hour to allow emergency vehicles to get to Staten Island.
It was known in the neighborhood that a judge had recently ordered Mr. Nunno to move out of the house, neighbors said.
Many of the neighbors said that Mr. Nunno had been despondent in recent months over losing his job.
Mr. Nunno had a record of misdemeanor convictions, the police said, and in the early 1970's was convicted on a felony drug charge and on weapons and menacing charges.
 "He seemed to be a nice person," said a neighbor, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "He must have been having problems. His wife is very nice, too."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (91%); DEATHS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FIREARMS (76%); TEEN SUICIDE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CHILDREN (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); FELONIES (70%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; NUNNO, NICHAEL MICHAEL NUNNO (93%); EVELYN NUNNO (59%); MARGARET RODRIGUEZ (59%); ROBERT SAMUEL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



104 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: THE IMPLICATIONS;
Facing Saddam, Again

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3

 BODY:
Three years and eight months into his presidency, Bill Clinton is fighting the war against Saddam Hussein that George Bush never finished.
After Mr. Bush decided to end the American-led war against Iraq in 1991 without overthrowing the Iraqi leader or destroying his military, the United States was left with limited and messy options. Mr. Clinton, like Mr. Bush, has worked to isolate Iraq politically and economically and to respond to provocations with force. 
 But, like it or not, the American military attack has embroiled the United States in internal Iraqi politics, essentially forcing it to take sides in a decades-old dispute between two rival Kurdish factions.
To prevent an excuse for just the sort of attack Mr. Hussein launched in taking Erbil, the United States in recent weeks has tried to broker an agreement between the two groups. The United States also needs something to show for its investment to protect the Kurds and provide them with food and medicine since the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991 -- $130 million a year.
The paradox is that the faction that benefits from the American intervention -- the one led by the lawyer and former journalist Jalal Talabani -- is currently supported by Iran, the world's leading "rogue state" in Washington's view.
Aside from standing up to Mr. Hussein -- an obvious political plus in an election year -- it is hard to discern concrete American goals in today's military operation or what would constitute an acceptable change in his behavior.
That was evident in statements today by both Mr. Clinton and Secretary of Defense William Perry, who struggled to explain why the United States was retaliating with limited air strikes and expanding the area inside Iraq where Iraqi planes are restricted from flying.
After all, from Mr. Hussein's point of view, he unleashed the Iraqi military on one of the country's two main Kurdish groups (the one backed by Iran) after the leader of the country's other main Kurdish group asked for his help.
Mr. Hussein jumped at the opportunity to gain partial control over what the United States and its allies, after expelling Iraq from Kuwait in 1991, had transformed into an autonomous zone inside his own country. True to form, he moved in with great force, seizing the Kurdish-controlled city of Erbil and, for good measure, killing dozens of his political opponents who were based there.
"It's necessary to stop Saddam anywhere, anytime, because if you don't he'll challenge you wherever he can," said Phoebe Marr, of the National Defense University and a leading expert and author on Iraq. "But we're not on very firm ground this time because he is in his own country. He was invited in. It's going to be hard to convince our allies to come on board."
In the Administration's view, however, Iraq surrendered its sovereignty when it invaded Kuwait in 1990. International endorsement of America's attacks or legal niceties like whether force is expressly authorized under Security Council resolutions are secondary to keeping Mr. Hussein cornered.
"This has nothing to do with the Kurds and everything to do with Saddam," said one Pentagon official.
In justifying today's attack, Mr. Clinton did not discuss the plight of the Kurds or the intricacies of Kurdish politics.
Rather, Mr. Clinton argued that American missiles sent this message: "When you abuse your own people or threaten your neighbors, you must pay a price."
But Mr. Hussein has abused his people since the ruling Baath Party assumed power in 1968; since the end of the gulf war he has continued to assassinate his political enemies and purge his military without any American military intervention.
As for threatening Iraq's neighbors, the Administration has yet to explain fully how Iraq's seizure of Erbil is a threat to the stability of the region or the price of oil.
In his statement today, Mr. Clinton said that the policy was clear: "When our interest and the security of our friends and allies is threatened, we will act with force if necessary."
But Mr. Clinton certainly did not mean the Iranian-backed forces of Mr. Talabani, who drums up support for his cause on Capitol Hill and in European legislatures besides overseeing his guerrilla forces in the rugged Kurdish hills.
And while Saudi Arabia, whose oil is crucial for the United States, is willing to allow American aircraft to be based in the kingdom to expand Saudi protection, it refused to allow American aircraft to launch its strikes against Iraq from Saudi territory.
No American official is willing to say publicly what, if anything, Mr. Hussein could ever do to prove that he wants his country to return to the family of nations. "We're not going to make any public declaration of what actions Saddam Hussein has to take at this time," Mr. Perry said at a news briefing. He said the United States expects a "change in his behavior as a result of this."
When asked what changes in behavior the United States is looking for, Mr. Perry said, "What we are looking for primarily is deterrence, deterrence of future military adventures."
Throughout his Administration Mr. Clinton followed the policy he inherited: keep Mr. Hussein cornered in the hope of eroding his power and punish or threaten him with military force when he misbehaves.
In each case, American retaliation could be justified as self-defense or in response to threats to American national security interests.
After Iraqi anti-aircraft guns fired at a Navy patrol in the no-flight zone in southern Iraq in January 1993, a Navy plane bombed an Iraqi position. When the United States uncovered what it said was an Iraqi plot to assassinate Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton ordered the bombing of an Iraqi military intelligence headquarters in Baghdad in 1993. And when Iraq massed its troops along its southern border with Kuwait in October 1994, Mr. Clinton sent thousands of troops and equipment to the region.
In the case of Erbil, Mr. Hussein acted out of his own domestic reasons in overtaking the city, not for any international adventure.
The Pentagon expects Iraq to withdraw the troops that pushed into the Kurdish enclave last week, but it is likely that Mr. Hussein will leave behind his intelligence and security apparatus to monitor and harass his political opponents there.
But if he were allowed to get away with it, the thinking in the Pentagon goes, he might have gained control over all of the Kurdish northern part of his country. That would have freed up 60 percent of his military, which now patrols the line with Iraqi Kurdistan, and then Mr. Hussein might seek some other adventure to keep his troops busy. Once again, he could have been a regional threat.
So on the basis of this extended line of reasoning, the United States was willing to act alone, with lukewarm support or criticism from the European and Arab countries that were its allies in the 1991 war.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a news analysis article on Sept. 4 about American policy toward Iraq misspelled the given name of an expert on Iraq at the National Defense University. She is Phebe Marr, not Phoebe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Reckless acts have consequences," President Clinton said as he announced the strike on Iraq. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) Photos: Her family patriarch rebuked Hajia Kassindja, whose daughter fled a genital cutting rite. (Liz Gilbert/Sygma, for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Hajia Zuwera Kassindja sat mutely as her family patriarch in Kpalime, Togo, center, censured her for helping her daughter escape genital cutting. A religious elder sat beside him. (Photographs by LIZ GILBERT/Sygma, for The New York Times); Fauziya Kassindja's odyssey began on the dusty streets of Kpalime, Togo. After fleeing Togo, she was detained for a time in York County, Pa. (Steven M. Falk for The New York Times); Her legal ordeal over, she now lives and studies in the Washington area. (Amy Toensing for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 
Map of Togo showing locations of Kpalime and Koussountou. (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News AnalysisSpecial Report

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); TOGO (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); TOGO (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; KURDS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USTerms not available MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JALAL TALABANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996



105 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Losing a 'Village' Amid Superstores;
A Forest Hills Community Welcomes Disney, Wistfully

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
Even a decade after the arrival of the Gap and Benetton on Austin Street in Queens, next to boutiques and bistros owned by locals, some old-timers in Forest Hills Gardens still refer to the short shopping strip as "the Village."
The Village was never part of Forest Hills Gardens, a planned community of Tudor- and Georgian-style houses dotting gracefully curving and winding streets lined with towering trees and ornamental lampposts. It was just outside the cloistered neighborhood of Forest Hills Gardens, reached by passing under an elevated embankment of the Long Island Rail Road along its northern edge. 
 Many longtime neighborhood residents shrugged off the ever-multiplying chains, even the coming of a Barnes & Noble superstore last November. Some, grasping for a new name for Austin Street, baptized it "the Madison Avenue of Queens."
But perhaps nothing has made more people more wistful than the opening, on Aug. 2, of a Disney Store. No one disputes that the Disney Company's second merchandise store in New York City, on the corner of Austin Street and 70th Road, has drawn more shoppers here.
But just as some people complain that Disney's flagship store on Fifth Avenue and 55th Street has made Manhattan's classiest shopping district seem like a mall, and just as others see the quintessential suburban store's impending arrival in Times Square as a threat to Gotham's hard, seductive edges, some in Forest Hills worry about the intangible: the soul of Austin Street.
At the old bakeries, tailors and haberdashers that have vanished, the owners were often neighbors who extended personal credit, said Dick Davis, 54, who grew up on the corner of Austin and Ascan Avenue, raised a family in a house in the Gardens and now lives in a co-op there with his wife.
"If Disney's coming, maybe it's a compliment," Mr. Davis said. "I'm not sure. I think Disney's wonderful. They have great characters. They're great for the kids. Disney is definitely free enterprise at its best.
"But it's starting to look a little like Myrtle Beach here -- all the stores selling the same stuff, with the same name on them. The personal aspect of it, of being a village, of dealing with people you knew in their shops and sometimes in social circles -- there's a certain feeling of security and warmth there. That's now gone."
If the Gardens on the south side of the L.I.R.R. seem to symbolize the old Forest Hills, with the houses and private streets remarkably preserved by ironclad rules set by the Forest Hills Gardens Corporation, Austin Street and Disney on the other side suggest changes that have swept the rest of the borough.
Heskel Elias, for one, is not nostalgic. Mr. Elias, who immigrated from Israel in the early 1970's, developed the Disney property and said he is working on deals with California Pizza Kitchen, HMV Records, Victoria's Secret and Hallmark. The chains, he said, merely reflect the desires of a new clientele: the young professionals or the immigrant families from the former Soviet Union, Asia and Latin and South America who have transformed the once predominantly elderly and Jewish communities of Forest Hills, Kew Gardens and Rego Park.
"The village aspect of it is gone," he said. "It's more commercial now. It's relating more to people that have seen the same name somewhere else and want to identify with it. It's not as cozy as it used to be."
Mr. Elias said old-timers, including some on the local community board, were unwilling to accept the changing times. He blamed them for denying the Disney Store a grand opening on Aug. 3 by rejecting an application to close off a small block for a four-hour parade. Mr. Elias said he had to abruptly cancel the scheduled visit of 14 Disney performers from Orlando, Fla. "Every one of those kids and parents asked me what happened to Minnie and Mickey," he said of opening day.
The community board rejected the application simply because Mr. Elias submitted it too late, Judy Rosen, who is in charge of street permits on the board, said. "We would have been happy to have Mickey," Mrs. Rosen said. "We would have been tickled pink. But we have the rules. Everybody has to follow the rules. We're not making exceptions. But we welcome Mickey Mouse."
Mrs. Rosen, who is also a member of Friends of Station Square, a local preservation group, compared the chains with carpetbaggers who, though they might attract more shoppers, were unlikely to invest in the neighborhood.
"You have to have a good balance," she said. "We have to watch that Austin Street doesn't become oversaturated with chains. I don't want to see California Pizza Kitchen. I want to see Joe's Pizza, or Sal's or Tony's Pizzeria."
Local business owners, like Louis Gazda, 52, whose family has owned the Glascott Funeral Home some blocks away for 40 years, said the chains had saved Austin Street.
"On the negative side," he said, "it's dirtier than it's ever been because of the increased traffic. Before, you could meet a neighbor on the sidewalk and stand and chat. Now, the sidewalks are so busy. You can't have the best of both worlds."
If locals wish for utopia, it may be understandable given the history of Forest Hills Gardens, which were built around World War I. The community was a product of the English Garden Cities movement, a humanist reaction against the Industrial Revolution that sought to bring country living to city life. Although covenants once restricted occupancy to white Christians, that is no longer the case.
Until a decade ago, Woolworth's had been the only chain on Austin Street. Then stores catering to the young families in the area, like Banana Republic and Lechter's, arrived. The recession and high real estate prices put Austin Street into a slump in the early 1990's: stylish boutiques saw themselves sandwiched between discount stores, and in 1993, the Village endured the indignity of fighting off a nude dance club.
But the opening of a 20,000-square-foot Barnes & Noble's last November has sparked an onslaught of economic activity, said Joshua L. Muss, who developed the site which had been vacant for more than two years.
Just west of the bookstore, Mr. Muss said his company will break ground in a few weeks on a 32,000-square-foot store for Creativity, a chain specializing in hobbies.
In January, Mr. Elias persuaded Disney to open a 6,800-square-foot store with 30 to 35 employees, or in Disneyspeak, "cast members."
Debbie Bohnett, a spokeswoman for Disney, said Austin Street was the only site considered in Queens, and while more stores are planned for the city, none will be located outside Manhattan. Of the 384 Disney Stores in the United States, only four are not in shopping malls.
"What's different with Austin Street is that there's a real community there," Ms. Bohnett said. "In Manhattan, we're not relying on the community but on tourism."
Mr. Elias said he hoped the Disney Store, which closes at 9 P.M., will encourage other businesses on Austin Street to stay open later. The independent store owners usually go home around 7 P.M.
On a recent afternoon, the pedestrians were noticeably fewer, and older, on Austin Street's more established, eastern stretch. With the chains concentrated more and more toward the west, the older section recalled the slower and quieter days of the Village. At the Home Lighting Center, Embassy One-Hour Photo and PYNY Italian Shoes, handwritten signs were taped to the doors, announcing that the stores were closed because their owners were on vacation until after Labor Day.
A few blocks west, in the Disney Store, under a glitzy black ceiling with stage lights, Melissa Sanicola, 31, was pushing her children in a double stroller past aisles of clothing, toys and dolls from the Disney movies. The talk among the young mothers in the local park for the last few weeks had been about the opening of the Disney Store. And on their first visit, Mrs. Sanicola's children, Laura, 20 months old, and Christopher, 9 months, looked pleased.
When she and her husband moved to the area from Texas 10 years ago, Mrs. Sanicola said they often shopped at malls on Long Island. But now, they found everything they needed at the chains on Austin Street and had not been to a mall since last winter.
"It's great for us," Mrs. Sanicola said, "but I can understand how the old-timers feel."
She said that whenever she pushed her green, double baby carriage along Austin's narrow sidewalk, the people who had the greatest difficulty moving out of the way were the ones using canes and added, "It's the old and the young, the old and the young."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 4 about changes in the commercial makeup of Austin Street in Queens referred imprecisely to past restrictions on who could live in Forest Hills Gardens, a planned community. (The error also occurred in an article in the City section on Sept. 3, 1995, about memories of Queens.) According to the Queens Historical Society, a widely known unwritten agreement restricted Forest Hills Gardens largely to white Christians until after World War II. A letter from a reader dated Oct. 3 points out that no written contract to that effect ever existed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Austin Street, a strip is known as the Village or, lately, the Madison Avenue of Queens. Melissa Sanicola, who visited the Disney Store with her two young children, said she enjoyed all the new shopping that has transformed Austin Street. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of Queens showing location of Austin Street. (pg. B3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: FOREST HILLS (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); SUBURBS (70%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU KEW GARDENS (57%); JUDY ROSEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



106 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: ON HORSE RACING;
Adding Up the Numbers at Saratoga

BYLINE: By Joseph Durso 

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y.

 BODY:
The weather was stunning, the racing dramatic, Cigar drew crowds even when he ventured from his private barn on the elegant old Greentree property just to work out and a record total of 803,086 spectators watched 34 days of horse racing at its finest. This was the best of times at Saratoga Race Course in its 127th season, and it bucked a trend that has been devastating the racing business for several years.
But with all that going, the crowds bet 1.8 percent less than they did last year. Why? They even bet $4 million less at Aqueduct, where they usually draw a crowd for live betting without live racing. Over all, gambling was down $6 million at Saratoga and Aqueduct. This is called "on-track" betting, even though Aqueduct is 180 miles from Saratoga. 
 There are probably good reasons they call economics "the dismal science," and there is something about the economics of horse racing that defies reason, as well as geography.
The only place where gambling showed a gain was "intertrack," meaning in the 33 states where Saratoga is allowed to send television pictures of its races for people at other tracks to bet on. This showed a rise of $38 million, so maybe the people at Del Mar in California and Calder in Florida were the true heroes of Saratoga's summer.
All this would be dreary enough, except that the New York Racing Association has been telling us in recent years that it would surrender some of its on-track attendance if it gained some betting revenue. And sure enough, it has been steadily surrendering on-track attendance. But this is the first time it has added people but subtracted money.
"Up here, you're looking for attendance," said Steve Crist, vice president of the New York Racing Association for communications and development, adjusting the party line somewhat. "If you want people to come to the race track for the first time, it's at Saratoga. The additional people we attracted were mostly newcomers and young people."
But the basic reason attendance went up and betting went down is probably this: They held five giveaway days on Sundays this year at Saratoga, compared to four last year, and this year's freebies included two T-shirt days that drew a total of 101,000 persons. Last year, road-atlas day understandably drew only 18,141. In fact, this year's five giveaways outdrew last year's four by 100,000, which is more than enough to explain this year's general attendance gain of 50,000.
So, what are we raising: a generation of horse lovers, or a generation of T-shirt lovers?
"It's a very good question," said Rick Marks, director of marketing for New York's three tracks. "My feeling is that no one is coming here for a day at the races just to get a T-shirt. We hope they come back."
It costs about $2 to buy T-shirts in huge lots in the winter, so in effect you are granting free admission to your customers when they pay $2 to get into the grandstand and receive a $2 T-shirt free. The rationale is that they will grow into racing fans and bettors. This year's numbers suggest they are more interested in T-shirts.
Which brings us to the central question in the selling of horse racing to the public: What are you selling? They call it "the product," but very few people agree on what it is, a horse or a parimutuel ticket. Or, a slot machine.
Arlington Park in Chicago normally does not publish its daily attendance figures; they did for July 12, when Cigar won his 16th straight race (34,223). When he raced, and lost, at Del Mar on Aug. 10, the California track had a record crowd of 44,181. But there aren't enough Cigars to go around.
Racing is in enough turmoil these days, but now an added complication has arrived: casinos. They threaten race tracks for the entertainment dollar wherever they are allowed. They're not legal in New York yet, but Gov. George E. Pataki was told by his special task force last week that they might bring in $2.6 billion a year and create 38,000 new jobs.
Crist testified before the commission in June that if casinos are authorized, "We need to have the option to diversify our product." There's that word again.
The bottom line on Saratoga, meanwhile, is the format for next year's season. Kenny Noe, the chairman of the N.Y.R.A., said he doesn't know yet if it will last through Labor Day, as this year's season did. He will talk with local merchants about the impact of the season before deciding. He might also check the T-shirt supply.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



107 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Calmer About U.S.-Iraq Strife, Traders Send the Dollar Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most leading currencies yesterday as the market perceived that tensions between the United States and Iraq were easing.
The dollar -- which had risen sharply early Tuesday after American missiles first attacked Iraqi installations, and then eased later in the day -- gave up the rest of the gains yesterday. In times of turmoil, the dollar often rises on its status as a currency of refuge. 
 "The situation is deemed by the market to have stabilized," said Frank Pusateri, vice president for corporate foreign exchange at the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar stood at 108.76 Japanese yen, down from 109.22 yen on Tuesday. The dollar was quoted at 1.4805 German marks, down from 1.4840 marks. The British pound rose to $1.5672 from $1.5660.
Rather than focus on Iraq developments, traders dealt the dollar in a tight price range as they awaited data on the future of the United States economy and interest rates.
"Right now, the market is fully focused on Friday's employment numbers as an indicator of whether the Fed is going to move or not," said David DeRosa, a director of foreign-exchange trading at SBC Warburg in New York.
Financial markets are betting that if the August employment report shows faster-than-expected job growth, the Federal Reserve will push up interest rates as much as half a percentage point at its next policy meeting on Sept. 24.
Higher interest rates typically bolster the value of the dollar by making deposits denominated in it more attractive.
If the employment report, however, is much stronger than expected, suggesting that the Federal Reserve would need to raise rates sooner and sharper, then bond and stock prices could tumble and the dollar would fall with them, Mr. DeRosa said. "An unanticipated rise in inflation is almost always bad for a currency," he added.
In other currency trading yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.2064 Swiss francs, down from 1.2078 on Tuesday; at 5.0760 French francs, down from 5.0780, and at 1,511.30 Italian lire, down from 1,513.00 lire. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KURDS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CURRENCIES (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); GERMAN MARK (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INFLATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); 

PERSON: DAVID DEROSA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



108 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Construction Spending Dropped 1.4% During July

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Construction spending in July suffered its biggest drop in five months as building activity in the housing sector fell for a third month.
The Commerce Department said today that spending on both government and private building projects totaled $554.7 billion in July at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, down 1.4 percent from the June level. 
 Both housing and nonresidential building fell during the month with analysts blaming the impact of rising long-term interest rates for part of the weakness.
"It looks like builders are being put off by rising mortgage rates," said Cynthia Latta, senior economist at DRI-McGraw Hill Inc. in Lexington, Mass. Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages, which started the year at 7 percent, have now climbed above 8 percent.
Spending for new housing fell for a third straight month, with the 1.1 percent July decline the biggest in more than a year. Construction of single-family homes was one-tenth of 1 percent, with multifamily building off a much sharper 12.5 percent.
Over all, residential construction, including remodeling projects, dipped 1.5 percent, to an annual rate of $244 billion in July. Residential projects account for 44 percent of total construction activity.
Nonresidential building was down 3.5 percent in July to an annual rate of $132.3 billion, with widespread weakness in a number of categories. Construction of factories, offices, hotels, schools and hospitals all declined.
Public construction dropped nine-tenths of 1 percent in July to an annual rate of $139.3 billion. Construction of schools was down 3.4 percent, to an annual rate of $25.8 billion, while highway construction edged up eight-tenths of 1 percent, to an annual rate of $39.1 billion.
Analysts said that construction activity was likely to suffer further if, as is widely expected, the Federal Reserve begins raising interest rates later this year to slow the economy and ward off inflationary pressures.
Ms. Latta said the most likely time for a Fed rate increase, which would be the first upward move by the central bank since February 1994, was in November after the Presidential election. But she said a move at the Fed's next meeting on Sept. 24 could not be ruled out, especially if Friday's employment report shows strong job gains and increased wage pressures.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" tracks total construction spending, at seasonally adjusted annual rate, from February 1995 through July 1996. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INFLATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CYNTHIA LATTA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



109 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Down Before Job Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dropped sharply yesterday, erasing much of Tuesday's gains as the market turned its focus to this week's labor statistics. Investors are waiting to see if the data will confirm suspicions about the strength of the economy.
Investors and dealers hope the reports will help them estimate when and how much the Federal Reserve Board will raise interest rates to counter any inflation threat. 
The 30-year bond fell 18/32, to a price of 95 23/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 7.10 percent, from 7.05 percent on Tuesday. Many market participants have already begun to move to the sidelines, unwilling to take positions before the release of the monthly employment report tomorrow, which surprised the market either by its strength or weakness in the last few months.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that construction spending in July fell 1.4 percent, well short of the expected decline of two-tenths of 1 percent. That was the last construction spending report the Fed will see before its Open Market Committee meets on Sept. 24.
"Disappointment that the market was unable to move higher on the weak July construction report helped send Treasuries to fresh lows in the morning," Michael Englund, chief economist at MMS International in San Francisco, said.
Some analysts said the market reacted cautiously to the construction report because traders believed the numbers trailed more recent data, such as home sales, housing starts, and home builder surveys that showed housing remained healthy.
Jack Regan, chief derivatives strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, described bond trading the rest of the day as "slow bleeding," until late afternoon, when traders covering short positions and repositioning portfolios pared some of the losses.
"After the market's overenthusiastic reaction to Tuesday's purchasing managers' report, people are just taking a second look, and even though the numbers received on construction spending showed a slight slowdown, the overall market concern of Friday's employment report is taking precedence," Mr. Regan said. He noted some small profit-taking, and reports of hedge-fund selling caused additional sales.
Mr. Regan agreed that market expectation was still evenly divided, as people awaited the employment data. "Yesterday's action said, 'No way,' " he said. "Today they are saying, 'What if?' "
The market is expecting a gain of 225,000 to 250,000 jobs. A number closer to 300,000 would raise fears of a rate increase, while a number below 200,000 could produce a rally.
"It's not just the overall number of nonfarm payroll gains that people will be watching," Mr. Regan said, "it is the entire matrix of the report, including the unemployment rate, hours worked, overtime and hourly wages."
The research firm Wrightson Associates said the number of jobs created in August, usually a strong month, was likely to be weakened by a leaner government sector.
Talk of a possible rate rise of at least half a percentage point, which is more than the quarter-point rise the Fed often resorts to, has investors upset, Waldo Best, an economist at BZW Securities, said. "It's something that could definitely happen, particularly if the payroll number on Friday is strong," he said.
Larry M. Berman, senior fixed-income analyst for Technical Data in Boston, said there was little reason to buy bonds before tomorrow's report. "The easy trade was on the sell side," he said.
Mr. Berman said he believed that today's weekly initial jobless claims report would be closely watched and might set a bias if it was far more than expectations. Technical Data estimated that the number of initial claims would be between 324,000 and 341,000, or about 330,000.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since May. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JACK REGAN (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



110 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Scientist Explains T.W.A. Uncertainty

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
An expert in the chemistry of explosives at the University of Rhode Island has completed an experiment that could help explain the tentative, almost teasing, results of tests for explosives residue on wreckage from Trans World Airlines Flight 800.
Dr. Jimmie C. Oxley, a professor of energetic materials, dabbed metal rods with RDX, one of the explosives found on wreckage from the jet, and suspended the rods in a saltwater bath, where they sat for three weeks. When Dr. Oxley pulled them out, all traces of the RDX had disappeared. 
 The finding suggests that traces of RDX on the wreckage submerged south of Long Island since July 17 could have similarly dissolved, and helps explain why the traces that have been found were microscopic.
Partly because crash investigators have had only a handful of confirmed positive tests for RDX and another explosive, PETN, after weeks of examining debris, they have continued to say they cannot conclude with confidence that an explosive charge brought down the Boeing 747 on July 17 and killed the 230 people on board.
Complicating the search for bomb residue is the simple fact that bombs deployed by terrorists in recent years have contained only small amounts of explosives. For example, the device that destroyed Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988 contained an amount of plastic explosive smaller than a hamburger pattie.
Results from a separate test of the underwater durability of PETN -- the other explosive compound found on wreckage from the plane, -- will not be known until next week, Dr. Oxley said.
She said she found the results of her immersion tests "mildly surprising" because the prevailing theory has been that compounds like RDX do not readily dissolve in water. She added that most previous tests had been done in fresh water. The tests were done by dabbing matchhead-sized amounts of RDX on aluminum rods and suspending them in salt water that was changed every few days. At sea -- where turbulence and the steady assault of silt help scrub objects -- the residue would be even more likely to vanish, Dr. Oxley concluded.
 Although not directly involved in the crash investigation, Dr. Oxley -- who has served as a consultant to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in past bomb situations -- said she decided to conduct the experiments to satisfy her own curiosity after several reporters called to ask her opinion of the halting nature of the residue tests.
In the waters off eastern Long Island, meanwhile, Navy officials said that salvage workers were encountering so much silt and turbulence that efforts to retrieve the remaining wreckage remained stalled.
A submersible robot was lowered to the sea floor from the salvage ship Grapple to inspect wreckage two days after the fringe of Hurricane Edouard brushed Long Island, but the robot's video camera could not pierce the silty water, said Lieut. Nicholas Balice, a Navy spokesman.
The first goal is to check to see if debris shifted after the storm, he said, adding, "We won't have a good idea of what the debris looks like until visibility clears up."
Yesterday afternoon, eight-foot waves forced investigators to haul out the robot and prevented any divers from entering the water, Lieutenant Balice said.
Nonetheless, efforts to piece together the airplane wreckage that has already been recovered continued yesterday to provide hints that the initial explosion occurred in a tight zone of four economy-class seats overlooking the right wing.
The hints come from the 12,000-gallon fuel tank that spanned the airplane beneath that section of the cabin. The 20-by-20-foot tank, which is about five and a half feet deep, is divided by three partitions that run the width of the plane.
An aviation engineer analyzing the wreckage said he had studied two salvaged portions of those metal bulkheads. One that was just just ahead of seat rows 24 and 25 was bent forward and the one that was behind this area was bent backward, he said.
The opposite directions of the splaying suggests that the initial blast originated somewhere between, the engineer said. Like most crash investigators, he spoke on condition of anonymity.
The engineer works for a private company providing technical assistance to the National Transportation Safety Board. Safety board officials declined to comment on his analysis.
Separately, however, safety board officials did confirm that the Boeing Company, the manufacturer of the jumbo jet, had met with them last week and reported the results of some tests showing that it was unlikely that an explosion of the fuel tank alone -- without an initiating blast from a bomb or missile -- could create the level of destruction seen on Flight 800.
A test flight of an identical Boeing 747, in which conditions in the fuel tank were carefully monitored, showed a rise in temperature that could vaporize enough fuel to cause an explosion, the Boeing representatives told the safety board. But further calculations showed that the conditions still could not produce a blast sufficiently powerful to decapitate the airplane, the Boeing representatives said.
Regardless of such findings, senior crash investigators yesterday still refused to rule out a mechanical failure as a cause of the disaster, continuing to list it along with the possibility of a bomb or missile.
Nonetheless, investigators have yet to come up with a plausible theory for a deadly mechanical malfunction.
"We can't draw any conclusions until we've completed the reconstruction and looked at everything combined," said one senior aviation investigator with the safety board.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) BOEING CO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EXPLOSIVES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY EXPLOSIVES (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); NAVIES (66%); ROBOTICS (60%); MARINE SALVAGE (60%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; OXLEY, JIMMIE C (DR) JIMMIE C OXLEY (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



111 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: THE KURDS;
Key Kurd Calls Deal With Iraq A Stopgap

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: DOHUK, Iraq, Sept. 4

 BODY:
A leader of the Kurdish faction backed by Saddam Hussein insisted today that the alliance was just a tactical and temporary partnership of the kind that have sustained the beleaguered Kurds for centuries.
In an interview here, a powerful member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party said short-term necessity had driven his group into a military alliance with the Iraqi dictator, who once gassed Kurds with chemical weapons, to seize control of Erbil from a rival Kurdish group. 
 The group turned to Mr. Hussein only after Western governments refused to defend the city against rivals cooperating with Iran, said Tayib Ahmad, the Kurd leader.
"We don't have any alliance with the Iraqi regime," he said. "It is just a temporary arrangement. There is no formal agreement between us and the Iraqi Government. We made an appeal and the Iraqi Government responded. When it is over, they will pull out their troops. Already there are no more Iraqi troops in the center of Erbil."
Mr. Ahmad, a 42-year-old former guerrilla, is a senior member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party's 32-member central committee. He has served as governor of Dohuk province since 1991, when the United States and its allies made the province part of a protected zone for Kurds in northern Iraq.
There were signs today that the partnership of convenience would not prove of universal benefit to the Kurds living in northern Iraq. Aid workers said that in the hours after Iraqi soldiers stormed into Erbil, security forces systematically rounded up Kurds allied with the party most vehemently opposed to Mr. Hussein.
In some of the first reports from Erbil since the fall of the city, aid workers who witnessed this weekend's Iraqi assault said Iraqi soldiers and Kurdish guerrillas allied with Mr. Hussein arrested scores, perhaps hundreds of people. Their fate is unknown.
Five years of protection by the United States has undoubtedly saved the lives of many Kurds in northern Iraq, but it has not made this a pleasant place to live. People here are effectively prisoners in a land of treeless plateaus and rugged mountains, unable to travel to other parts of Iraq and unwelcome in neighboring countries.
Dohuk is today a forlorn place, and the border town of Zahko is even less appealing. For a brief period after 1991, Zahko enjoyed an economic boom because hundreds of American soldiers were stationed here. It has long since slipped back into sun-baked sleepiness. At midday today the only movement on the dusty streets was from a handful of Kurdish guerrillas driving about in Mercedes-Benz sedans and three youths trying without success to push a cart laden with sacks of Turkish detergent up a steep hill.
A sign at the border crossing that reads "Welcome to Kurdistan" seems a cruel joke. All the Kurds have to show for generations of struggle is a parched parcel of land surrounded by enemies and dependent for survival on the charity of increasingly frustrated Americans and other foreigners.
In the interview today, Mr. Ahmad brushed aside reminders that Mr. Hussein's regime brutally suppressed Kurds in the past.
"If someone can help solve our problems, we have no objection," he said.
The United States has refused to be drawn into the increasingly bitter conflict between the Kurdistan Democratic Party and northern Iraq's other Kurdish faction, the Democratic Union of Kurdistan, which has forged ties to Iran.
Senior American officials said this week that Mr. Ahmad's party had seriously blundered. "They think they can manipulate the Iraqis and they'll find that they are too powerful and too ruthless to be manipulated," Secretary of Defense William Perry said Tuesday in an interview with "The News Hour With Jim Lehrer" on PBS.
Mr. Ahmad asserted that American forces should have stepped in after the Democratic Union launched a joint operation with Iranian troops inside Iraq earlier this summer.
"We wanted the United States and other powers to do their job and protect us," he said. "When there was no reaction from the United States, the allies, or the European countries, we asked Iraq to protect us."
A statement issued today by the Kurdistan Democratic Party suggested that it was not simply the Democratic Union's recent cooperation with Iran, but also classic power rivalries that prompted it to turn to Mr. Hussein for help.
The statement, issued in the name of Massoud Barzani, the top party leader, charged that the Patriotic Union had been using "violence and terror" against Democratic Party members in Erbil for more than two years. It accused the Patriotic Union of "filthy play" and of launching "aggressive actions and dangerous plots against us."
"The party made use of its legal right to self-defense and asked for limited legal support from anybody anywhere," Mr. Barzani's statement said. "The Iraqi Government, gracefully, responded."
Aid workers said today that the Iraqi Army's role was anything but graceful.
"Iraqi forces were going through our neighborhood and taking people away," one aid worker said. "I was watching them. There were people who were against Saddam or his party in one way or another, or people who might have said something negative about the K.D.P.
"A lot of people were getting dragged out of houses. They went systematically house to house. I know people who said something five years ago, and since then not a single word, not a single action. They got their doors knocked on and were taken away. These people don't forget."
Another aid worker said he doubted that Iraqi soldiers had withdrawn from Erbil.
"The security forces are still there, some of them undercover," he said. "A lot of local people who work for aid agencies are very, very, very frightened."
Jeremy Anderson, an Australian architect who was working in Erbil for the Wisconsin-based aid group Shelter Now, said he had heard from Kurdish associates in Erbil that his office had been ransacked.
"Five minutes after we left," he said, Iraqi forces "came rolling through our office door."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, the Kurdish faction allied with Saddam Hussein, celebrated on Monday outside the city of Erbil in northern Iraq after seizing it from a rival group over the weekend. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); DEMOCRATIC UNION OF KURDISTAN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); DEMOCRATIC UNION OF KURDISTAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); SEDANS (60%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); KINZER, STEPHEN; AHMAD, TAYIB SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



112 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Seeks Stricter Curbs on Business Improvement Districts

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani wants to scale back the growing influence of the city's business improvement districts by sharply limiting or ending their ability to sell bonds, which would make it difficult for them to undertake multimillion-dollar projects, administration officials said yesterday.
The Mayor believes that the city has too little control over the districts' finances and would be held responsible if any defaulted on their debt, the officials said. A default might damage the city's already shaky credit rating. 
 Mr. Giuliani has not formally decided to restrict the districts' authority to borrow money through bond sales but will probably do so soon, his aides said.
"I certainly think that we are moving in that direction," said Fran Reiter, the Deputy Mayor for Economic Development.
Though the issue of bond sales by the business improvement districts may seem arcane, it underscores a debate that has unfolded in recent years over the role of these groups and whether they are being properly supervised.
Since they were authorized by the City Council in the early 1980's, the districts have expanded aggressively, often taking over services abandoned by an increasingly cash-strapped municipal government. There are more than 30 districts, and in some neighborhoods, they have drawn praise from residents and businesses who bemoaned a deteriorating quality of life.
The districts levy special taxes on property owners and use the money to pick up garbage, hire security guards, promote businesses and carry out other activities. With the city's permission, they can also sell bonds, which can allow them to pay for major projects, like street lights.
But as the districts have thrived, they have raised a knotty question about accountability: Are mini-governments springing up across the city that are being run without oversight?
"We think that they have done some terrific work," Ms. Reiter said of the districts. "But we do think that we have some responsibility in protecting the public interest from an entity that is going out there and in essence creating public policy in their defined geographic areas in a way that is so independent that it can become harmful. And I think that you have to watch that."
Just last year, one of the largest districts, the Grand Central Partnership, was accused of urging workers to beat up and harass homeless people, a charge the district denied. And a report by the City Council concluded that some districts had abused their power and failed to deliver promised services.
Despite the report, neither state nor city officials have made any significant effort to curb districts' powers. If the Mayor does act on the bond sales, it would be the first such effort.
Two of the most prominent districts, the Grand Central Partnership and the 34th Street Partnership, have sold a total of $56.5 million in bonds in recent years. The Grand Central Partnership recently asked the Giuliani administration to approve another $10.7 million in bond sales so it can help the Metropolitan Transportation Authority renovate Grand Central Terminal.
Another district, the Alliance for Downtown New York, is considering seeking permission to sell about $20 million in bonds for lights, signs and other renovations in lower Manhattan.
Daniel A. Biederman, the president of the Grand Central and the 34th Street districts, said he hoped he could persuade Mr. Giuliani to continue allowing the districts to borrow by selling bonds. He said he would never propose projects that conflicted with any pursued by the city.
"We certainly wouldn't be among the group that they should fear lack of control over," Mr. Biederman said. "We check in almost daily with them."
Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, declined to comment.
Technically, the city approves bond sales by the districts but is not liable if they default. But officials contend that if a district defaulted, bondholders would probably demand that the city take responsibility.
"You know that if one of them goes into debt and goes belly up," Ms. Reiter said, "the city is going to be the one left holding the bag, so to speak. We think that from a public policy standpoint, that is troubling."
One reason the Giuliani administration has turned its attention to the bond sales is that the city itself is nearing the limit on the amount of debt it can have outstanding as set by the State Constitution. Though the bond sales by the districts are relatively small, they are counted against the city's own debt ceiling.
Mr. Giuliani has said the debt limit is outdated, and fiscal monitors largely agree with him. He has proposed getting around it by asking the State Legislature to create a new city agency that would be allowed to borrow money above the ceiling.
A decision to ban the districts from selling bonds would probably have support in the City Council, where sentiment appears to have turned against some of the groups. The Council does not have to approve the Mayor's decision, but he might take its views into consideration.
Herbert E. Berman, chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, said he was opposed to the districts' amassing debt, maintaining that they were too poorly regulated to take on such a burden.
"It is a bad aspect of the law," Mr. Berman said, adding that he would support changing it.
The Times Square Business Improvement District, one of the other large districts, has not sold debt and has no plans to, its president, Gretchen Dykstra, said. While Ms. Dykstra declined to say whether she favored a ban on bond sales, she said the districts had to be sensitive to their place in the city's social fabric.
"BID's by their very fundamental nature represent parochial interests," she said. "We have to always push ourselves to ask the question of where do we fit in in the larger planning -- and even wider -- issues. Where do BIDS fit in in the future of the entire city? There is always a healthy tension between BID's as an oasis and BID's as a part of the entire city."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



113 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Advance a Bit; Investors Await Jobs Data

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks ended with small gains yesterday as Wall Street reacted calmly to news of the second American military strike against Iraqi targets and instead looked ahead to tomorrow's jobs report, which it expects will give clues to Federal Reserve interest rate policy.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 8.51 points, closing at 5,656.90. In the broader market, advancing issues led declines, 1,379 to 947, on moderate volume of 351 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.53 points, to 1,143.82. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.89 point, to 655.61. The American Stock Exchange index dipped 0.45 point, to 557.34.
The Big Board's composite index of all listed common stocks climbed 1.61 points, to 352.37. The average share was up 6 cents.
"At the present time both stocks and bonds are acting antsy about Friday's news," said Harry Laubscher, market analyst at Tucker Anthony. "Investors are largely on the sidelines in advance of the jobs data."
The new round of missile attacks by the United States against Iraq early yesterday continued to roil limited segments of the market, although oil stocks were only barely higher on the day.
Traders said the American military intervention had largely faded as a market-moving factor. Rather, most investors are more concerned with whether coming economic data, such as tomorrow's jobs report, show an overheating economy. In that case, the Fed might decide to raise interest rates to counter inflationary pressures. Higher interest rates raise the cost of doing business and hence cut into corporate profits.
Analysts on average expect that nonfarm payrolls rose by 224,000 in August, compared with July's 193,000 increase, while the unemployment rate is expected to have edged lower, to 5.3 percent from 5.4 percent.
The energy-hungry transportation sector was weak, and the shares of airline companies were battered by the prospect that higher fuel prices would hurt their results. Oil prices have gained about $1 a barrel this week on fears of supply shortages as a result of the United Nations' decision to call off the sale by Iraq of 600,000 to 700,000 barrels of oil a day following Baghdad's military incursion.
United Airlines' parent, UAL, lost 1/2, to 47, and American Airlines' parent, AMR, fell 2, to 80.
Retail stocks got a lift from news that Staples, the office products retailer, had agreed to acquire a competitor, Office Depot, in a deal that would create an industry giant with more than $10 billion in annual sales.
Office Depot jumped 4 37/64, to 20 29/64, while Staples, which will pay 1.14 shares for each Office Depot share, fell 3/4, to 18 3/4.
The accord sparked strong demand for retail stocks. J. C. Penney gained 1 7/8, to 55 1/2; May Department Stores rose 1 3/8, to 47 1/2, and Sears, Roebuck advanced 1 1/8, to 44 3/4.
"You've had concern in that sector about too many competitors and margin erosion," said Philip Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management. "This deal suggests managements recognize the potential problem and are going to enact the strategic consolidation that is needed."
Officemax, a direct competitor of Staples and Office Depot, slipped 5/8, to 13 1/8. The company said it might pursue acquisitions of its own in light of the merger.
Rubbermaid fell 3 5/8, to 22 7/8, after warning that its third-quarter earnings would be hurt by rising raw materials prices. The company also said it had agreed to buy Graco Children's Products for $320 million in cash.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE MARKET VALUE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (87%); COMMON STOCK (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (77%); INFLATION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); AIRLINES (66%); RETAILERS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



114 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: Labor Market Tightens But Pay Gains Stay Slim;
Concerns Persist About Wage Inflation

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: REMINGTON, Va.

 BODY:
Trinity Packaging's plant here recently hired a young man for a hot, entry-level job feeding plastic scrap onto a conveyor belt. The pay was O.K. for unskilled labor -- a good $3.00 or so above the Federal minimum of $4.25 an hour -- but the new worker lasted only one shift.
"He worked Friday night and then just told the supervisor that this work's too hard -- and we haven't seen him since," said Pat Roe, personnel director for the Trinity Packaging Corporation, a producer of plastic bags for supermarkets and other users. "Three years ago he'd have probably stuck it out." 
 This is just one of many examples of how a growing number of companies these days are facing something they have not seen for many years: a tight labor market in which many workers can be much more choosy about their job. Breaking a sweat can be reason enough to quit in search of better opportunities.
"This summer's been extremely difficult, with unemployment so low," said Eleanor J. Brown, proprietor of a small temporary-help agency in nearby Culpeper, which supplies workers to Trinity Packaging. "It's hard to find, especially, industrial workers and laborers."
From iron mines near Lake Superior to retailers close to Puget Sound to construction contractors around Atlanta, a wide range of employers in many parts of the country are grappling with an inability to fill their ranks with qualified workers. These areas of virtually full employment hold important implications for household incomes, financial markets and political campaigns as well as business profitability itself.
So far, the tightening labor market has generated only scattered -- and in most cases modest -- pay increases. Most companies, unable to pass on higher costs by raising prices because of intense competition from foreign and domestic rivals, are working even harder to keep a lid on labor costs, in part by adopting novel ways of coupling pay to profits.
"The overriding need is for expense control," said Kenneth T. Mayland, chief financial economist at Keycorp, a Cleveland bank, "at a time when revenue growth is constrained."
But with unemployment already at a low 5.5 percent and the economy looking stronger than expected this summer, more analysts are worried that it may be only a matter of time before wage pressures begin to build again as they did in the late 1980's.
[Economists will be paying particularly close attention on Friday when the Labor Department releases job figures for August. If hourly earnings are up and the number of new jobs exceeds the consensus expectation of about 230,000 by a significant margin, the Federal Reserve is likely to raise short-term interest rates to try to cool off the economy, probably at its next scheduled meeting on Sept. 24 but perhaps earlier.
[That could even inject the Fed into the political campaign, where President Clinton has been boasting of the nation's steady growth and low inflation, while his challenger, Bob Dole, contends that the performance of the economy has been inadequate and left many workers struggling to make ends meet.]
The labor shortages are widespread and include both skilled and unskilled jobs. Among the hardest occupations to fill are computer analyst and programmer, aerospace engineer, construction trades worker and various types of sales jobs. But even fast-food establishments in the St. Louis area and elsewhere have resorted to signing bonuses as well as premium pay and more generous benefits to attract applicants.
Geographically, the employment market is tightest in the industrial Midwest, the farm belt and much of the South, according to Regional Financial Associates, an economic research firm in West Chester, Pa. It found "slack" markets confined mostly to the sprawling metropolis around New York City and in Los Angeles.
The research firm regards Michigan as tightest of all, with an unemployment rate of 4.6 percent, about two points below its so-called natural rate of joblessness -- a theoretical rate calculated on a state-by-state basis to be consistent with stable inflation. North Dakota posted an unemployment rate of just 2.8 percent in July, its lowest since the Government started keeping this set of figures in 1978. And the rate for Madison, Wis., the lowest for any metropolitan area, fell in July to a scant 1.5 percent, Labor Department figures show.
Even in this generally robust economic climate, though, millions of eligible workers have dropped out of the labor force and many people still worry about being squeezed out of their current jobs.
[A recent survey by the Gallup Organization found that slightly more than one in four workers were concerned about losing their jobs in the next six months.
[But the Labor Day poll, conducted for the Marlin Company, a business consulting group in North Haven, Conn., also found that fully 51 percent thought that finding another job would be extremely or somewhat easy. And younger workers were even more optimistic: 62 percent of those aged 18 to 34 felt that it would be easy to find another job.]
To attract new workers, companies are resorting to a variety of techniques. Help-wanted advertising is strong in most parts of the country, job fairs are on the rise and companies are turning increasingly to outsourcing and temporary workers to fill specific needs. More companies that rely on relatively unskilled and low-wage workers, like fast-food restaurants and retailers. are also extending fringe benefits to part-timers and other workers who previously did without.
So far, upward pressure on pay is relatively modest, a phenomenon that economists say is surprising in light of an uninterrupted business expansion that is now five and a half years old.
"We have less wage pressure than, historically, anyone would have guessed," said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Bank in Pittsburgh.
But wages have already crept up a bit and could accelerate even if the economy slackens from its recent rapid growth pace. And if the economy maintains significant momentum, some analysts say, all bets are off. If growth continues another six months at above 2.5 percent or so, Mark Zandi, chief economist for Regional Financial Associates, said, "we'll be looking at wage inflation right square in the eye."
Whatever the future holds, for now millions of Americans have yet to enjoy much tangible benefit of the tightening labor market, in many cases because they lack the skills in high demand. Wage stagnation and a widening disparity in incomes can also be traced to the decline of labor unions and the fear of corporate downsizing, which makes many employees reluctant to risk their current jobs by demanding significant pay increases.
Among economists, a paramount question today is whether this situation will last or whether workers will begin to extract higher wages from employers desperate to hang on to trained and talented employees.
"Labor costs are the single most important determinant of U.S. inflation," economists at Goldman, Sachs & Company reminded clients during the spring in an effort to keep in perspective a surge in commodity prices that was spooking the inflation-wary bond market. Commodities account for less than 10 percent of total costs and some of the spike of earlier this year has already been reversed. For example, the price of nonferrous metals dropped 3.6 percent between March and July, while eggs plunged 15.7 percent..
Among experts, the debate turns on how low unemployment can drop before wage pressures intensify significantly. Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch, argues that "unless labor markets tighten up a lot more than we expect, any wage acceleration is likely to be modest."
But John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, is growing increasingly concerned as the national unemployment rate continues to hover around 5.5 percent, a point even lower than that at which wage pressure had typically emerged in the past.
"It looks like there are some bottlenecks developing," Mr. Makin said, declaring that the heavy investment in new machinery and equipment that has powered the economy the last few years requires skilled people to run it even as this equipment substitutes for other, generally lesser-skilled workers.
And he believes that to attract needed workers or to avoid losing some now on the rolls, employers are already starting to capitulate. "I think we're seeing people saying, 'O.K., we'll pay 'em more.' "
Among those already succumbing to this reality is the Boeing Company, which has announced plans to expand its payroll by 13,200 this year to meet strong demand for its new 777 jet transport.
It has had to sweeten offers for experienced engineers and for recruits from college, Peter Conte, a Boeing spokesman, said, adding that he could not give specific figures. "There's great demand and limited supply."
Pay for machinists, however, is "holding," he said.
Another source of wage pressure is the recently enacted 50-cent increase in the Federal minumum wage, which will raise minimum pay to $4.75 an hour when in takes effect on Oct. 1. Although Mr. Roe at Trinity Packaging has no minimum-wage workers on his payroll, he said the higher Federal mandate would have an indirect effect.
"Psychologically there's going to be pressure on the company to raise our starting wage to be attractive to people looking for employment," he said.
One worker who has taken advantage of the current environment is Clyde Long, a 30-year-old who switched jobs to join Trinity Packaging in May. He had been working about two miles away at Ross Industries, which makes food-processing equipment, and quit without having anything else lined up.
In a week, Mr. Long had hired on at Trinity where, as a press operator, he now earns $8.55 an hour -- $1.25 more than at his old job -- with better benefits and training as well. "It's a whole lot better here," he said.
Unlike the late 1980's, the last time when labor was comparably hard to find, regional migration is helping cushion the effect. Since the early 1990's, more than 400,000 people a year have left California than moved there. The net population outflow from the New York area exceeded 250,000 a year. But this safety valve and other forces that have delayed the onset of higher wages may be eroding.
Trinity Packaging, for example, has so far managed to avoid any unplanned increase in its general pay scale -- this year's rise of about 3 percent in February was about the same as last year's. But it decided in late winter that it needed to raise the wages of its temporary staff to the level of permanent workers' pay. This meant 10 to 15 percent raises for a couple dozen of its 300 workers.
And in recent weeks, the company has run newspaper ads it previously shunned and enlisted some additional employment agencies.
"Most of the people who want to work," Mr. Roe lamented, " are already working."

GRAPHIC: Clyde Long, 30, is making $1.25 more an hour at Trinity Packaging in Remington, Va., than at his former job. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Map/Chart: "A Warm Climate for Job Seekers"
 While there are still areas of the country where job prospects remain weak, in many states employers are finding it hard to attract good workers. Map shows the unemployment rates in each state during the second quarter of 1996. States are rated according to how employment varies from its so-called natural rate of joblessness, defined as the lowest level that allows for wage stability.
Labor markets in many parts of the country have grown very tight, though there are few signs of rising wages. Here are some regions that stand out:
 
Midwest
The nation's tightest labor markets are in the Midwest, which has vibrant manufacturing and agribusiness sectors. Fast-food restaurants in St. Louis are paying signing bonuses.
 
West
Population flight from California is slowing down, contributing to a tightening of labor markets in the West. Jobs in tourism and high-tech manufacturing beckon job hunters.
 
California
Led by entertainment, high-tech, tourism and trade, the state's economy is booming after its collapse in the early 1990s. Jobless rates are below 3 percent in Silicon Valley and 5 percent in Orange County and San Diego. But Los Angeles remains a laggart, with unemployment at nearly 8 percent.
 
Mid-Atlantic
With joblessness in New York City close to 7.5 percent and the federal government continuing to shrink in the Washington area, this region has the slackest labor markets in America. Job seekers may benefit as more people are move away.
 
(Source: Regional Financial Associates) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Wage Gains Still Modest" tracks the percentage change in wages and salaries along with the percentage change in total compensation, since 1984. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LAKE SUPERIOR (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRINITY PACKAGING CORP TRINITY PACKAGING CORP (94%); KEYCORP (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRINITY PACKAGING CORP BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LAKE SUPERIOR (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); PLASTIC BAG MFG (73%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PLASTICS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); IRON MINING (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



115 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Name Health-Care Panel, With Eye to Second Term

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
President Clinton will soon appoint a Federal advisory commission to recommend ways of protecting consumers against changes in the health care industry that threaten the quality of care, Administration officials said today.
The study will lay a foundation for health policy initiatives and legislative proposals if Mr. Clinton wins a second term. 
 Mr. Clinton plans to announce the commission on a campaign trip to Florida this week. The panel will be asked to recommend ways of guaranteeing high-quality care for consumers, including more than 60 million people in health maintenance organizations, the officials said.
The announcement, coming nine weeks before the Presidential election, is obviously designed to win votes, and a spokesman for Speaker Newt Gingrich dismissed it as a political maneuver.
But Chris Jennings, a White House aide who coordinates health policy for the President, said the commission would study the need for consumer protections, ways to guarantee the quality of care and ways to assure "access to needed health care services." Another Administration official said the panel would propose ways to "improve access to care, particularly in underserved communities."
These were among the issues addressed in the President's ill-fated proposal for universal health insurance, which was rejected by Congress in 1994, in one of the biggest legislative defeats of Mr. Clinton's Presidency. That proposal was foreshadowed in a Clinton campaign speech, in 1992.
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich and Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, will be co-chairmen of the new panel. Vice President Al Gore will review the recommendations before they go to the President.
In an interview tonight, Mr. Reich said the panel, the National Commission on Health Care Quality, would have up to 20 members, including consumers, health care providers, labor union leaders, business executives and insurers. Mr. Reich said the panel would examine "the rapid growth of managed care and H.M.O.'s" to identify steps needed to protect consumers.
Other Administration officials said that the panel would also study traditional forms of insurance, under which doctors are paid a fee for each service they perform.
If Mr. Clinton is re-elected, Mr. Reich said, the panel will issue its preliminary report in September 1997, with a final report to follow six months later.
Tony Blankley, a spokesman for Mr. Gingrich, said the creation of the panel appeared to be a political ploy. "It would make more sense for President Dole to make these appointments next January," he said.
In Florida this week, Mr. Clinton also plans to endorse a bill that would prevent H.M.O.'s from restricting discussions between doctors and patients on treatment options and other medical matters. Doctors have denounced such restrictions as "gag clauses" that interfere with the doctors' ethical and legal duty to provide patients with information about the benefits, risks and costs of various treatments.
The bill is sponsored by Representatives Greg Ganske, Republican of Iowa, and Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Administration officials said Mr. Clinton would also reaffirm his support for a bill requiring health plans to cover at least 48 hours of hospital care for mothers and their newborn infants. The President and Mrs. Clinton praised this bill, to much applause, at the Democratic National Convention last week. But the American Association of Health Plans, which represents H.M.O.'s, has opposed the bill as a "misguided attempt to mandate standards of medical practice."
Mr. Jennings, the White House aide, said that the panel would study whether the closing of hospitals and mergers in the health care industry had impaired access to care or harmed its quality.
Those issues and many others were studied in 1993 by the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform, led by Mrs. Clinton and Ira C. Magaziner, a White House aide.
An Administration official said the new panel would have a more modest role and would take "a more temperate, cautious approach" than the task force, which recommended top-to-bottom changes in the health care system to guarantee coverage for all Americans.
The task force did most of its work in secret and refused at first to identify the hundreds of people advising the President on health policy. Mr. Clinton accepted its recommendations, but Congress rejected them.
Voters often cited the President's plan as a reason for voting against Democrats in the 1994 Congressional elections.
Mr. Jennings said "we are not singling out H.M.O.'s" for criticism or scrutiny. But inevitably the panel will examine such prepaid health plans, because enrollment in H.M.O.'s has soared by 60 percent in the last five years. Nearly half of Americans with health insurance are enrolled in H.M.O.'s or other networks of doctors and hospitals that practice some type of managed care.
Mr. Jennings said the commission would study "changes in the health care delivery system, what's happening in the market today, and what type of government intervention or oversight" might be needed.
Karen M. Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, said: "We would welcome an opportunity to participate in any process that examines how the health care system works for consumers."
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., also welcomed the new commission. "By protecting consumers in the often confusing and sometimes coercive health care market," he said, "it should lessen their anxiety and make their lives a little easier."
Economists say that H.M.O.'s and other managed-care plans have helped slow the increase in health costs. But consumer advocates say that such plans sometimes create new risks, by limiting consumers' ability to choose their doctors or by limiting access to costly care provided by medical specialists.
Representative Ganske, a surgeon, said that by imposing "gag clauses" on doctors, some H.M.O.'s were preventing patients from getting the information they needed to make intelligent decisions. His bill was unanimously approved by the House Commerce Committee in July.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); ETHICS (77%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INSURANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



116 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
In airline safety, too much vigilance can be a bad thing.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
THE loss of 230 lives on T.W.A. Flight 800, most likely to a bomb, shows once again that the price of airline safety, among other things, is slower travel and higher ticket prices. It costs passengers and the airlines time and money for everything from bomb-sniffing German shepherds to the now-familiar game of "20 questions" at the check-in counter.
Is the price worth paying? This question will never pass the lips of public officials who value their jobs. But speaking the unspeakable has never been a problem for Robert Hahn, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington and author of "Risks, Costs, and Lives Saved" (Oxford University Press, 1996). While many will no doubt reject his conclusion that the extra resources spent to deter airline terrorism could be better used elsewhere, his numbers do illustrate how inconsistently Americans weigh the price of risk in their daily lives. 
 Forget, at least for the moment, the gantlet of metal detectors, X-ray units and security guards that have been part of air travel since the rash of hijackings in the 1970's. Indeed, forget the new technology -- bomb-detecting machines, automated employee identification devices, and so forth -- proposed for airports since Flight 800 exploded off Long Island. Mr. Hahn looks only at the cost of time, the extra half-hour both the airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration now ask passengers to set aside for preboarding rituals.
Time spent milling around airports is money for a lot of travelers. Not everybody puts a high price on the extra time -- a 9-year-old en route to Orlando to visit Mickey is in a far different position from, say, a harried salesman with a client waiting in Denver. And a lot of the time can be put to good use: witness the vast multiplication of laptop computers and cellular phones in passenger terminals and airline lounges.
Still, Mr. Hahn conservatively puts the number at $20 an hour. Figure $10 for the lost half-hour times the 500 million passengers who boarded flights in America last year, and you end up with a total cost of $5 billion.
Mr. Hahn figures that since 1982 548 people (almost half of them on Flight 800) have died in air crashes in the United States linked to sabotage. That comes to 37 lives a year. Divide this number into $5 billion and you end up with $135 million as the cost for each life saved, provided new airport precautions actually cut sabotage deaths to zero.
Is this a good investment? The very idea of "investing" in lives the way, say, AT&T invests in telephone switches, is repulsive to most people. Fact is, though, that both government and business are forced to make such decisions all the time. New houses would have sprinkler systems if building codes required them, or home buyers demanded them. But they don't, presumably because the benefit in terms of fewer fire fatalities is deemed smaller than the cost in higher housing prices and ugly nozzles sticking out of the ceiling.
In the case of air safety, Mr. Hahn says, failing to calculate costs and benefits carries a special price. Longer delays at airports will push some travelers on shorter trips into cars instead, which are 10 to 20 times more dangerous per mile traveled. Hence in the process of saving 36 lives on aircraft, Mr. Hahn calculates that at least 36 will be lost on the road.
More generally, Kip Viscusi, an economist at the Harvard Law School, has estimated that saving a life at a price of more than $50 million is self-defeating because it drains resources from other life-saving purposes. And while it is impossible to trace cause and effect, $50 million funneled into antiterrorism (or anything else) that marginally reduces expenditures on mammograms, street lights and fresh veggies costs a statistical life.
Enormous outlays for antiterrorism may still be defended in terms that economists and other bean counters will countenance. Arguably, the airport delays are worth it just because travelers feel safer: purely psychic benefits do count. It is also possible that the establishment of the principle that terrorism will not be tolerated is worth far more than the tangible benefits in safer skies.
But such arguments work both ways. If the point of terrorism is to disrupt the society and economy, much of the reward is in the excessive response. It is not far-fetched, after all, to imagine a day when the quality of American life is seriously sacrificed on the altar of deterrence.
The moral, Mr. Hahn argues, is not to give up vigilance, but to understand that too much of it can be a bad thing. "We should zealously attempt to contain terrorism," he says, "but we must be wary of giving up our money or our time before having a reasonable idea of what we will get in return."

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (70%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; FINANCES; TERRORISM AIRLINES (92%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); DOGS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; HAHN, ROBERT ROBERT HAHN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



117 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Bowing to Strategists, Kemp Keeps Campaign in Low Gear

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Sept. 4

 BODY:
In a typical day on the stump for the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee, Jack Kemp spent today raising money in private, preaching his economic message to friendly crowds in public and trying to steer clear of anything that would put him within reach of controversy.
"Don't ask me any questions about football," Mr. Kemp, a former professional football player, told a crowd in what has become a standard line in his stump speech, "because I don't deal with anything controversial." 
 Even by the relatively lackluster standard of campaigning to which all of the candidates have adhered since their national conventions last month, Mr. Kemp's schedule has been monotonous and slow-paced.
Senior campaign aides said today that they had deliberately planned a low-key schedule for Mr. Kemp in the early going, holding the voluble former Congressman and onetime Housing Secretary to a quiet understudy role to keep the spotlight on the Republican Presidential nominee, Bob Dole. They said they were concentrating on states they believe are crucial to the outcome of the election.
The current 15-day campaign swing includes trips to Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania and twice to Georgia and to California.
Recent polls show that Mr. Clinton is favored in the vote-rich states of California, Pennsylvania and Illinois and that Georgia and Ohio are both leaning toward him.
"Ohio is very important, very, very important," Mr. Kemp told a crush of supporters who pressed against a chain-link fence at a private airfield near Cincinnati to see him off.
It is a message that he has repeated at every public gathering in his current trip, and has hammered home even harder in the twice-a-day private appeals for financial support for Republicans.
Aides say Mr. Kemp, who has never been shy about keeping up his political profile, is anxious to begin a far more aggressive campaign and to cram more events into his day. But for the moment, at least, he has yielded to the counsel of campaign strategists.
"The biggest job right now is to sell the Dole-Kemp economic plan and to defend it against the great fog machine of the Democratic Party," said Charles Black, a senior political adviser to Mr. Kemp and Mr. Dole. "You will see things pick up in the Kemp campaign. But basically, this week we are in the targeted states and the targeted markets, trying to get our economic message out."
That has produced back-to-back days of "cookie-cutter" events where only the skylines change.
Today, for example, Mr. Kemp repeated the pattern that he set on Tuesday in Michigan and Illinois. His schedule included a fund-raising event in the morning in Cincinnati and another in the afternoon in Columbus.
In between there was a tour of a local business, followed by a town hall-style meeting with employees, where the candidate waded into the crowd like a television talk show host to field questions and to push the campaign's economic message of less government and lower taxes.
"Tell me if you've undertaxed and you can vote for Bill Clinton," Mr. Kemp told a crowd of about 500 people at Cintas, a Cincinnati company that manufactures work uniforms. "If you are undertaxed, you should not vote for Bob Dole and Jack Kemp; you'll be very unhappy. We are not going to raise taxes; we are going to cut them 15 percent."
And at each stop, Mr. Kemp sets aside time to meet with the local news outlets for interviews, a strategy that Mr. Clinton perfected four years ago in his campaign for the Presidency.
Mr. Kemp has limited his communication with journalists from national news organizations who are traveling with him to an unorthodox method that has become something of a tradition on the campaign trail: reporters from the back of Mr. Kemp's plane roll an orange with a question scrawled on the rind up the aisle at takeoff, and the orange is sent back moments later with a response from the candidate.
One of the questions today was in response to Mr. Kemp's assertion that his elder son, Jeff, a former National Football League player who is a traveling volunteer in the campaign, was "only half the quarterback that his old man was."
"Will the better quarterback roll this back?" was the message to Mr. Kemp, whose younger son, Jimmy, is a quarterback with the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the Canadian Football League.
But the orange was intercepted by Mr. Kemp's wife, Joanne, who sent the response: "Here she comes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp answered questions from the audience yesterday at a Republican rally at Dublin Coffman High School in Dublin, Ohio. The Vice-Presidential nominee later visited Pennsylvania in his swing through states that are considered essential for a Republican victory on Election Day. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (87%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (87%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (60%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; KEMP, JACK F; DOLE, BOB HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



118 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Campbell Soup Profits Rise As Revamping Is Expected
The Campbell Soup Company reported strong fourth-quarter earnings as its shares rose on speculation that the company would make an announcement today on a possible revamping. Campbell, the world's largest soup maker, announced that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 25.9 percent, to $180 million, or 73 cents a share, above expectations. The earnings included a one-time gain from the sale of the Mrs. Paul's frozen seafood business. [Page D2.]

Investigation at Stock Exchange
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange is investigating its chairman for investing in a small company that subsequently won a major contract with the exchange -- a contract that was the main attraction when the company sold shares to the public this year. [D8.]
 
Service Blocks 'Junk' E-Mail
America Online took the unusual step of blocking all incoming messages from five Internet sites that it said were responsible for sending millions of unsolicited E-mails. [D18.]
 
Strategic Shift at Dreyfus Funds
Dreyfus plans to introduce a service to offer investment advice to customers with as little as $10,000 in assets in an effort to attract mutual fund investors. [D8.]

G.M. Sales Dropped Last Month
G.M. said sales last month dropped 7.9 percent from the strong levels of a year earlier because of weak demand for large sedans and luxury cars and supply problems. [D4.]
 
Clinton to Name Health Care Panel
President Clinton will soon appoint a Federal advisory commission to study the health care industry and lay a foundation for policy initiatives and legislative proposals if the President wins a second term. [A20.]
 
Construction Spending Off 1.4%
Construction spending in July fell 1.4 percent from June, its biggest drop in five months, as building activity in the housing sector contracted for a third month. [D4.]
 
Zell in Bid for Chateau Properties
Manufactured Home Communities, which is controlled by Sam Zell, announced a hostile $387 million bid for a rival, Chateau Properties. It hopes to derail Chateau's $300 million deal for ROC Communities. [D5.]
 
Dow Industrials Gain 8.51
Blue-chip stocks ended with small gains, as investors awaited Friday's jobs report for clues as to whether the Fed will raise interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 8.51 points, closing at 5,656.90. [D8.]
 
Prices of Treasuries fell sharply, as traders awaited the labor statistics, pushing the yield on the long bond up to 7.10 percent. [D18.]
 
Art Book Publisher Put Up for Sale
Times Mirror said it was looking for a buyer for Harry N. Abrams, the art-book publisher, after it failed to meet its profit target. [D7.]
 
Oil Prices Fall
Crude oil prices fell after President Clinton said Iraqi troops appeared to be withdrawing from Kurdish areas they attacked on Saturday, easing tensions that sent oil soaring. The withdrawal would improve the prospects for a possible limited sale of Iraqi oil. Crude oil for October delivery fell 16 cents, to $23.24 a barrel. [D15.]
 
Cost Unclear on Fund Bailout
Deutsche Bank said that it was too early to say how much it would cost to bail out three funds managed by its Morgan Grenfell unit. [D5.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,656.90, up 8.51
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.10%, up 0.05
The Dollar -- 108.76 yen, down 0.46

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (95%); GM (NYSE) (68%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (95%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (78%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (68%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (57%); AOL INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); BONDS (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); SPECIALTY CANNING (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); LUXURY GOODS (66%); LEGISLATION (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); SEDANS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); BOND MARKETS (63%); BOOK PUBLISHING (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



119 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Dole Camp Breaks the Mold, Trying an Ad That Will Last a Full Five Minutes

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4

 BODY:
In a stark departure from the conventional fare of 30-second political advertisements, the Dole campaign will reintroduce its candidate to the public in a five-minute network commercial on Thursday night.
Titled "Portrait of a Man," the advertisement paints an image of supreme sacrifice and personal success, utterly shorn of Bob Dole's economic proposals and even his experience in the United States Senate. To appear on CBS after the newsmagazine program "48 Hours" -- 10:55 in most of the country -- the ad reassembles images and comments of Mr. Dole and longtime friends that were first presented in a biographical film at the Republican National Convention in San Diego last month. 
 "I don't have anything to prove -- I've already done that," Mr. Dole says in the video, wearing an open-collar blue shirt. "Except to be a good, strong leader. We're never going to have a utopian America, but we can have a better America."
While surprising for its length and unadorned format, the advertisement is also a striking acknowledgment that three weeks after the Republican convention and nine weeks before the election, the voting public has too little sense of who Mr. Dole is. "Far too many Americans know him in his senatorial role but know too little else about Bob Dole," said Christina Martin, a campaign spokeswoman.
John Buckley, Mr. Dole's communications director, said the commercial was intended to provide voters "a three-dimensional portrait of someone who they have not gotten sufficient positive information about over the course of the campaign." Mr. Buckley said Mr. Dole had fallen victim to a barrage of negative advertisements beginning in the Republican primaries.
Until this week, 1996 had been shaping up as a particularly intense season of 30-second political advertisements. That is the favored format of both major-party Presidential campaigns as well as the business and labor groups and Congressional campaign committees that are increasingly taking to the airwaves as November nears.
But Ross Perot, the Reform Party nominee, returned to the small screen on Sunday night with one of his trademark half-hour infomercials. He plans to broadcast another half-hour advertisement on ABC at 11:30 on Thursday night and follow up with yet another on Sunday night on NBC, with more scheduled for next week. As in 1992, Mr. Perot is relying on a no-frills presentation in which he sits behind a desk, speaks directly to the camera and raises an occasional chart to underscore his points.
The Dole campaign believes that five minutes is enough to draw people's attention, but not so much as to strain it. "The Ross Perot 30-minute spot gets you a very narrow audience," Mr. Buckley said. "But a five-minute spot is the kind of spot that grabs people's attention. They don't know quite what is, so they stay with it."
Bob Shrum, the longtime Democratic media consultant, said this was not orthodox advertising thought. "The risk is, people are zapping 30-second ads today," he said. "People don't watch five minutes; that's the conventional wisdom."
The Republican National Committee previously broadcast a one-minute biographical commercial about Mr. Dole. But the Clinton campaign has broadcast no commercial longer than 30 seconds, and tonight the Dole campaign also began broadcasting a more conventional, 30-second advertisement, attacking the President on the economy and promoting Mr. Dole's economic plan.
Half-hour political commercials were common through the 1960's and into the early 70's. But while Jimmy Carter broadcast several five-minute spots in 1976, the standard by then had already shrunk to one minute, on its way to 30 seconds.
Mr. Shrum pointed out, however, that Michael S. Dukakis turned to the five-minute format late in his 1988 campaign as he tried to cast himself as a populist. "My general experience," Mr. Shrum said, "is that with campaigns that are behind or in trouble, there's a tendency to say, 'Let's do something different, just to see if it clicks.' "
But, he added, with Mr. Dole partly drowned out by the military action in Iraq, a lengthy commercial "lets people get to know him better, in a way that's favorable to him and is not just an eight-second sound bite."
Mr. Buckley declined to disclose the cost of the advertisement, and CBS officials said tonight that they could not determine it.
In the new advertisement, Mr. Dole reprises bridge imagery that he used in his convention speech, imagery that Mr. Clinton later turned against him by suggesting that Mr. Dole was mired in the past. But here -- in a scene that his campaign said was taped before his acceptance speech -- Mr. Dole offers a variation on the metaphor. "I want to be a bridge from my generation to younger generations," he says, "and I want young people to have the same challenges and the same opportunities and succeed as I did."
When the advertisement was described to him, Joe Lockhart, a Clinton campaign spokesman, was quick to criticize it. "It's interesting that they feel they need to continue to reintroduce Bob Dole," Mr. Lockhart said. "But they continue to be focusing on the past. The President is determined to make this campaign about the future."
Even some Republican media consultants criticized the biographical film that was shown at the convention for calling attention to the age of the 73-year-old Mr. Dole, partly by showing elderly friends of his. The advertisement features some of the same people.
Stressing Mr. Dole's connection to the Midwest, the commercial opens with aerial shots of a straight dirt road parting green fields, then a field of grain, followed by a boy delivering newspapers from a bicycle. At length, Mr. Dole recalls a poor boyhood in Russell, Kan., a mother who when necessary washed his mouth out with soap, a town where his family would leave the keys in the car.
Throughout, Mr. Dole maintains a low-key manner, even in the modest way he makes the case for himself in the commercial's final words: "And I think, I hope, I'm a better man for a better America."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A younger Bob Dole, United States Congressman, in "Portrait of a Man," a five-minute commercial scheduled for broadcast tonight.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INFOMERCIALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; DOLE, BOB BOB DOLE (95%); JOHN BUCKLEY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



120 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole's New Campaign Style Delights a Friendly Crowd

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: ANKENY, Iowa, Sept. 4

 BODY:
Amid cases of motor oil, charcoal briquets and pizza flour stacked on a stockroom floor, Bob Dole today tried a type of campaigning he has largely avoided until now: a 30-minute, free-flowing conversation with a curious, though invitation-only, audience of supporters.
It was the third such event in two days, and Mr. Dole's aides asserted that these sessions would now join rallies and speeches as standard entries on his schedule. They are called "Listening to America," and it is a notable experiment for a candidate who has never seemed entirely comfortable with any kind of unstructured exchanges. 
 Still, the queries were almost uniformly more admiring than challenging, and the names taped to each of the 50 seats were reminders of just how selective these forums are.
Even Mr. Dole's audience here seemed uncertain what they were witnessing at first, as they settled into seats in the stockroom at the headquarters of Casey's General Stores in this suburb of Des Moines. Gov. Terry E. Branstad introduced Mr. Dole and then tried to turn over the microphone to the crowd.
"If somebody has a question they'd like to ask Bob Dole ----," Mr. Branstad said, dropping his microphone and looking up expectantly. For five very long seconds, he and Mr. Dole scanned the silent audience until Mr. Dole, sheepishly, raised his own hand. The questions began after the laughter subsided.
In contrast to President Clinton, who has made these kind of forums an integral part of his politicking, Mr. Dole is a candidate who prefers the more traditional venue of speeches and rallies. Even when he has, on occasion, tried this kind of discussion, he has prefaced them by informing his listeners that he prefers listening to talking.
Dole aides said one purpose of the new formats was to soften Mr. Dole's image by placing him in settings where he is seen conversing with voters. The staged events are intended not so much to win national attention, as to generate excitement in local news coverage. Accordingly, Mr. Dole's aides said today that they were pleased, for example, by the coverage of a forum he held in Colorado Springs on Tuesday night.
During three of these sessions over the past two days, Mr. Dole has been relatively comfortable with the question-and-answer formats.
His audiences are selected by local supporters -- today, they were invited by Don Lamberti, the chief operating officer of Casey's, and Republican leaders -- and the questions are, not surprisingly, not particularly challenging, and often echo what Mr. Dole has been saying on the campaign trail. By contrast, he has not held a formal news conference with reporters since last March.
"Not only is this a great economic package for all Americans, having a tastefully dressed First Lady would certainly help the fashion industry," Mary Jean Larson, the owner of a women's apparel shop, said in Colorado Springs, praising at once Mr. Dole's policies and his spouse.
"Elizabeth Dole," Ms. Larson said, "is a role model for all American women, offering confidence, beauty and intelligence, a First Lady who knows who she is and has nothing to hide."
Similarly, here today, Mr. Dole listened calmly as Robert Aukes, a financial planner, declared -- in the form of a question -- that Mr. Dole's critics were wrong in worrying that his tax cut plan would hurt the needy. Mr. Aukes said he had been invited to attend today's session after he wrote a letter to The Des Moines Register praising Mr. Dole's economic plan.
If Mr. Dole's appearances today had any overriding purpose, it was to present another defense of his economic plan against attacks from the White House that it favors the rich.
"What the President is saying is some people don't need the tax cut," Mr. Dole said. "Now, who's going to decide who doesn't need it? He's going to say, well, the rich, they don't need the tax cut. And my view is, that's class warfare again. We're not a class society. We're a classless society. This is the United States of America. If you pay more taxes, you get a little more of a tax cut."
Throughout the day, Mr. Dole's aides offered no apologies for the choreography behind Mr. Dole's purportedly impromptu sessions.
"I don't know who gets into these darn things," said Nelson Warfield, the campaign press secretary. "There are no quotas as to who can come. This isn't a Democratic convention."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Turning to a new type of campaigning, Bob Dole appeared yesterday before an invitation-only crowd in Ankeny, Iowa, and tried to stir free-flowing conversation. At another appearance, at the Madison, Wis., airport, supporters were joined by a man protesting Mr. Dole's environmental stands. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CASY (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS441310 AUTOMOTIVE PARTS & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CASEY'S GENERAL STORES INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NEWS REPORTING (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); FASHION & APPAREL (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; NAGOURNEY, ADAM BILL CLINTON (70%); TERRY BRANSTAD (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



121 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds a Three-Decade Gain in American Eating Habits, but a Long Way to Go

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
Although the American diet improved during the last three decades, fewer than 25 percent of people surveyed eat a healthful one, a new study has found.
The study, the first to compare national dietary trends over a long period in different economic groups of blacks and whites alike, also found that the diet of wealthier whites had improved most dramatically. 
 The research looked at four groups: wealthier whites and blacks, and poorer whites and blacks.
In 1965, wealthier whites scored lowest in the percentage eating a healthful diet, and poorer blacks scored highest, a discrepancy the researchers attributed to the difference in ability to afford substantial amounts of meat and other foods high in saturated fat.
By 1991, a higher percentage of Americans in general were eating health-promoting diets, having significantly reduced their consumption of saturated fats and cholesterol, and lowered their total fat intake to 35 percent of daily calories, from 40 percent.
But the degree of the improvement varied by group. The dramatic gain among wealthier whites, who had the farthest to go, was in contrast to smaller improvements made among poorer whites and blacks, who had been in nutritionally better shape to begin with.
In addition, the researchers found that the diet of poorer blacks by 1991 was not so rich as it had been in 1965 in foods like sweet potatoes, greens and black-eyed peas, part of a traditional diet that had nicely dovetailed with the emphasis on beans, grains and vegetables in current dietary recommendations.
The study found dietary change in both good and bad directions among all groups. While many Americans had switched to low-fat or skim milk from whole milk over the years, by 1991 they were also eating far more pizza, tacos and pasta dishes loaded with hidden fats. Consumption of grains, fruits and vegetables -- aside from fat-laden french fries -- actually decreased among some groups. And the widely offered advice to eat more fiber seems to have fallen on deaf ears.
As a result of these trends, the differences in dietary quality between whites and blacks narrowed considerably after the mid-1960's, even though both groups were improving, the researchers concluded.
The new findings, by Dr. Barry M. Popkin and his colleagues at the University of North Carolina, are being published today in The New England Journal of Medicine.
The study, which was financed in part by the Kellogg Company, the cereal-making giant, was based on three similar surveys conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture, in 1965, 1977-78 and 1989-91, among a combined total of 32,406 adults.
In each of the surveys, thousands of people selected to represent the entire population were asked what they had eaten the day before. The researchers evaluated the findings of each survey in the context of eight dietary goals summarizing recommendations to reduce chronic disease that were formulated in 1989 by the National Academy of Sciences. The eight goals are these:
*Reduce fat intake to 30 percent of total calories or less.
*Limit saturated fat intake to less than 10 percent of calories.
*Consume less than 300 milligrams of cholesterol a day.
*Eat five or more servings of vegetables and fruits a day.
*Increase consumption of starches and other complex carbohydrates by eating six or more servings of breads, cereals and legumes a day.
*Eat moderate amounts of protein -- less than twice the recommended daily allowance, or R.D.A.
*Limit total daily sodium intake to 2,400 milligrams or less.
*Consume the R.D.A. for calcium.
The researchers used an index, based on how well people met these goals, in which a score of 4 or less indicated a more healthful diet, 10 or more a less healthful diet.
They found that in 1965, 9.3 percent of poorer whites, 4.7 percent of wealthier whites and 16.4 percent of poorer blacks reported the more healthful diets. (The sample of wealthier blacks was then too small to provide meaningful results.)
In the 1989-91 survey, 19.9 percent of poorer whites, 20 percent of wealthier whites, 23.5 percent of poorer blacks and 2.7 percent of wealthier blacks said they were eating the more healthful diets.
In general, higher-income whites had done more than other groups to reduce their consumption of high-fat foods and eat more low-fat foods. But Dr. Ana Maria Siega-Riz, a nutritionist on the research team, said that "among lower socioeconomic groups, we are not seeing enough shifting to the types of foods being recommended for reducing obesity, heart disease and cancer risk."
In an accompanying editorial, Dr. Shiriki Kumanyika, a nutrition specialist at the University of Illinois in Chicago, noted that less than a quarter of any group examined met even four of the eight recommendations for dietary improvement.
"As a society," Dr. Kumanyika wrote, "clearly we still have a long way to go."
Dr. Kumanyika said a sharp increase in the consumption of packaged and restaurant foods was largely responsible for unhealthful eating. She urged more aggressive advocacy by health professionals and more concerted actions by the Federal Government, which is responsible for school lunch menus and foods distributed to low-income women and children. Many of the free foods are high in fats and cholesterol, and pizza, burgers and tacos have become popular school lunch items.
Bonnie Liebman, a nutritionist for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group based in Washington, noted that half the American food dollar was spent, and a third of calories were consumed, away from home, at places where "foods lack nutrition labeling and portion sizes are out of control."
"The most sweeping changes in the American diet," Ms. Liebman said, "can be traced to fast foods -- increases in mozzarella cheese for pizza, tomato products for ketchup and pizza, pickles for relish, potatoes for fries, chicken for Kentucky fried, ice milk for soft serve, beef for burgers, and soft drinks. These are foods that are high in fat, saturated fat, salt and calories, and low in fiber."
Ms. Liebman noted that McDonald's spent nearly $800 million a year on advertising, as against only $1 million spent by the National Cancer Institute to promote fruits and vegetables.
"Maybe if McDonald's started serving veggie burgers, sweet potatoes and more fruits and vegetables," she said, "the trend would trickle down to other fast-food establishments and into people's homes."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Americans' Changing Diets" shows the percentage change in consumption for high and low fat foods from 1965 to 1989-91. (Source: The New England Journal of Medicine)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (83%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (83%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA KELLOGG CO (83%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; DIET AND NUTRITION; BLACKS; RESEARCH NUTRITION (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); TRENDS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); CHOLESTEROL (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (50%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



122 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Grows With Government's Help;
Not Corporate Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Carla A. Hills, the former United States trade representative, thinks that Bob Dole's tax cut is a great idea (letter, Aug. 30). She says it will be a big help to American businesses, "with 15 percent more of their earnings going to their bottom line." 
 But Mr. Dole's tax cut isn't 15 percent of anybody's earnings. It's 15 percent of Federal income taxes. Even the wealthiest business people pay only about a quarter of earnings in Federal income taxes, and many pay far less. So a 15 percent tax cut translates into, at most, 3.75 percent of earnings. In addition, corporations, not individual businesses, do most of the business in this country and nearly all exporting. But Mr. Dole's tax cut plan doesn't affect corporate taxes. Thus, Ms. Hill's argument has nothing to do with the plan she defends.
 
ROBERT S. MCINTYRE
Director, Citizens for Tax Justice
Washington, Sept. 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (55%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (55%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAX LAW (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; HILLS, CARLA A; MCINTYRE, ROBERT S BOB DOLE (91%); CARLA A HILLS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



123 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
In a Subway, An Immigrant And a Lesson

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
IT'S no fun coming back to work after Labor Day. No fun at all. It rarely is, and if you are in the news business, it has been downright depressing this year.
The schools are so crowded that children are learning in bathrooms and closets. Still. A child who lived only four years is dead, allegedly starved to death -- starved to death -- by her own mother; investigators still cannot say that T.W.A. Flight 800 was downed by a bomb or a missile; the Republicans and Democrats barely mentioned the word "city" at their national conventions, unless accompanied by the dubious concept of enterprise and empowerment zones, and the Middle East is a war zone again. 
 It is, this overflow of bad news, enough to make early retirement look inviting. Until happenstance brings reporter and notebook to car 2104 of a No. 3 IRT train heading into Manhattan from Brooklyn. And there it was, a most welcome reminder of why so many have chosen to live in this complicated, sometimes cruel city, rather than in a simpler, more homogenized corner of the country.
SITTING in that rather ordinary subway car, sharing the same space somewhere between Bergen Street and Times Square, was a random assortment of people who demonstrated the remarkable breadth of New York, why it is what it is. Just a casual glance took in high school students clutching their brand new program cards and a trim young man leafing through "Runner's World." There were girls in Minnie Mouse sweatshirts and boys in baggy jeans, an executive type, with wires snaking from his earphones to his briefcase, reading The Wall Street Journal.
A ways down the car was another reader, a handsome woman named Victoria. She was turning page after page of "The Book of Silent Prayer," reading comforting words -- the prayer for peace, the prayer for the lonely. "I read it everywhere," she said, in the lilting rhythms of Guyana.
Mistaking journalistic curiosity for a sign of faith, she showed her questioner the prayer book, and shared the address and phone number of the publishing company, before tucking it into her pocketbook before she got off at her stop. "You relax and read," she advised. "It takes you away from things."
Near Victoria was a young man who had rolled into the car on in-line skates, and was now fixated on a book that made him smile to himself. He was reading "Every Living Thing" by James Herriot, the veterinarian from Yorkshire who wrote heartwarming books about his life as a country vet. Delightful discovery, delightful reading, said the skater -- a bartender of 29 named Mark Lampert, who was on his way to Lincoln Center.
And then there was Julian Gil, sitting between the runner and the giggling girls and working toward his future.
It is a shame that Presidents and members of Congress don't take subways. If they did -- a laughable notion -- maybe they would meet Julian Gil or his equivalent. And then perhaps they would realize the folly in their new welfare act and its frontal attack on immigrants.
MR. GIL, he shyly revealed, is a 33-year-old emigre from Ixtapalapa, Mexico, who came to New York City about two years ago. He arrived alone, without parents or a family of his own. He is not on welfare. He is not getting unemployment insurance. He is working as a busboy in a Brooklyn restaurant. "I clean the tables, take off the dishes," he explained. He also studies English.
"American English: The Practical Workbook, Part I," rested on his lap, with a notebook filled with his homework. He studies two hours a day at the American Language Communication Center in Manhattan, at a cost of about $30 a week. Judging from his tentative English, he has many more classes ahead of him, for sure. But he's doing all right.
Yesterday on his way to class he was practicing questions and answers. "What does she like to read?" was one question in his notebook. "She like to read fashion magasins," read the answer he had written. Mr. Gil gratefully accepted a little editing, and gamely talked about why he came here from Ixtapalapa.
"My country very expensive," Mr. Gil explained, before getting off at Penn Station. "No have job. Is very poor. Coming here -- is a new life."
But so many people complain about America, especially about New York, don't they? Julian shrugged: "Yes," he said, before getting off at 34th Street. "But is good for me."
That did it. Early retirement will have to wait.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUBWAYS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); STARVATION (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (64%); PUBLISHING (63%); TRENDS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%); EARLY RETIREMENT (54%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE JULIAN GIL (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



124 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 5, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Dole Gained Reputation in Senate As a Master of Special Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

 BODY:
In promoting his plan to cut taxes and balance the Federal budget, Bob Dole has called in recent days for creating a fairer tax system and closing the special-interest loopholes that riddle the tax code and save wealthy businesses billions of dollars each year.
"If there ever was a time when some corporations needed special breaks or favors from Congress, that time is over," the Dole campaign proclaimed last week in its first detailed explanation of the tax overhaul, which is the centerpiece of Mr. Dole's Presidential campaign. "Least of all should Government be giving special breaks to corporations when working families and small businesses enjoy no such favors." 
 Mr. Dole repeated the message this week, saying he expected to pay for tax cuts and to balance the budget in part by closing corporate tax loopholes.
"There's still some corporate welfare out there that we can tap into," he said in an interview published in The New York Times last week.
But, during 27 years in the Senate, Mr. Dole proved himself to be a master at engineering the very sorts of special tax breaks for constituents and corporations that he now decries. And recipients of those breaks, in turn, have been among Mr. Dole's most generous contributors, helping him over time to create one of the most successful campaign fund-raising machines ever.
As one of the most powerful members of the Finance Committee and the leader of Senate Republicans, Mr. Dole negotiated tax breaks and tax subsidies worth billions of dollars for a broad array of corporate interests. Some beneficiaries were constituents in his home state of Kansas; others were from out of state. The list included the Archer Daniels Midland Company, the world's largest ethanol producer, commodity traders, major Kansas employers and an Iowa company owned by a co-chairman of his current campaign finance committee.
"Dole has had positions of power that give you a place at the table and an ability to tuck favors in for your constituents or the interest groups that you care about," said Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1989 to 1995 and now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
The Dole-Kemp campaign sees no inconsistency in those past efforts and Mr. Dole's new call for ending loopholes. A campaign statement said Mr. Dole's economic plan would "do away with the need to constantly battle to close loopholes and correct a tax structure that has often been too complicated and somewhat antiquated."
One of Mr. Dole's last actions before resigning from the Senate in May was to propose legislation to close and tighten loopholes on a "fast track" basis, said Christina Martin, the campaign's deputy press secretary.
Some of Mr. Dole's efforts to win tax breaks in the past have been well publicized, and others remain more obscure. Among the best known were his efforts to create and protect the tax subsidy for makers of ethanol, the corn-based alcohol used in gasohol. He sponsored legislation in 1979 creating a tax credit for the ethanol industry, which the Treasury Department estimates has cost the Government $5.9 billion in tax revenue.
Mr. Dole has received $228,800 in contributions from people affiliated with Archer Daniels Midland.
Mr. Dole has defended his efforts on behalf of the ethanol industry as beneficial to Kansas corn farmers, who get higher prices for their corn because of the demand from ethanol manufacturers.
Still, some of his other actions have come over the objections of constituents and have benefited major companies outside Kansas.
Four years ago, Mr. Dole introduced an amendment to extend a tax credit for drilling for natural gas in difficult places. The amendment provided 90 cents in tax credits for each dollar of gas sold from these wells; it costs the Government about $1 billion a year.
In speech in the Senate, Mr. Dole said natural gas obtained using the tax credit would help ease the country's reliance on imported oil. But his position was opposed by most of the nation's natural gas suppliers, including those in Kansas who said the credit would benefit only a few companies.
The Kansas Independent Oil and Gas Association voted to oppose the extension of the credit. Mr. Dole's home-state producers argued that the credit benefited suppliers in other states, where the hard-to-find gas deposits exist. They also said it would contribute to the oversupply of gas that was pushing prices down.
Steve M. Dillard, head of the association's natural gas committee and vice president of a Wichita oil and gas producer, said, "As I saw it, the tax credits were harmful to producers in Kansas because there is very little gas here that qualified for the credits and it depressed the market."
Mr. Dole, who was then minority leader, shepherded the extension to Senate passage, but it was included in legislation that was ultimately defeated. Nonetheless, companies that drilled wells before the end of 1992 will receive the credits through 2002.
A chief beneficiary of the tax credit has been Enron, a Houston oil and gas company that has extensive drilling operations for hard-to-find gas. An Enron spokesman said the tax credit had been worth about $12 million a year.
Enron and its chief executive, Kenneth L. Lay, have strong ties to Mr. Dole and other Republican leaders. Mr. Dole's 1996 Presidential campaign has received $72,250 from Enron employees and the company's political action committee, second-highest of any corporation, according to figures compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group in Washington.
The PAC and Enron employees have contributed $502,822 to Republican candidates and the party in the current election cycle and less than $70,000 to Democrats, according to the figures.
Another Dole contributor and prominent Republican, John Ruan of Des Moines, sought Mr. Dole's last-ditch assistance when the 1986 tax bill eliminated investment tax credits for certain business purchases.
One casualty was $8.5 million in tax credits for purchases of equipment related to an Iowa trucking plant planned by Mr. Ruan's company. That type of credit was eliminated by the 1986 tax bill as part of an effort to streamline the tax code.
Mr. Ruan knew Mr. Dole from his long involvement in Republican politics in Iowa, a crucial primary state. So he turned to the Senator for help. At the last minute, Mr. Dole was able to insert language protecting the $8.5 million into a deficit-reduction bill.
"Ruan brought Dole in, and he managed to save the deal," said former Representative Neal Smith, an Iowa Democrat who was defeated in 1994 and is now a lawyer in Des Moines.
Mr. Dole's campaign said this week that the candidate had supported the tax credits for the Ruan company because the contracts had already been signed when the tax law was changed and that Mr. Dole believed it was an unfair and retroactive tax.
Mr. Ruan, his family and his trucking company have contributed $105,462 to Mr. Dole's political organizations over the years, according to election records. Mr. Ruan is currently a co-chairman of the Dole-Kemp campaign finance committee.
Mr. Dole's effort struck closer to home in 1990. When Congress considered a 10 percent luxury tax for automobiles, airplanes and yachts, two major Kansas employers appealed to Mr. Dole for help.
The Beech Aircraft Corporation and the Cessna Aircraft Company employed 12,000 people and contributed $1 billion to the Kansas economy. Sales of single-engine planes had been hurt by product-liability suits, particularly at Cessna. Aircraft manufacturers feared that the luxury tax would deliver a harsh blow to the remaining market for business aircraft.
"At the time, the luxury tax under consideration would have applied to all of our aircraft," said David Franson, a vice president at Cessna, which is based in Wichita. "But the whole industry, not just Cessna and Beech, lobbied extensively throughout Congress for an exemption."
As Senate minority leader, Mr. Dole was in a position to deliver for the home-state businesses. He inserted language in the Senate tax bill that limited the surcharge to aircraft costing more than $250,000, a particular boon to Cessna.
The House version applied the tax to aircraft costing more than $100,000, but Mr. Dole led a successful fight to keep the threshold at $250,000. Three years later, Mr. Dole was instrumental in persuading Congress to repeal the luxury tax on all private airplanes, industry officials said.
In Mr. Dole's political career, the Raytheon Company, the parent of Beech, which has been renamed Raytheon Aircraft, and Cessna have contributed a combined $201,500 to his campaigns and to the Better America Foundation, a research agency Mr. Dole closed last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics and foundation records.
Mr. Dole's efforts also have contributed to tax breaks for corporations like Massachusetts Mutual Insurance Company and E.&J. Gallo Winery, and groups like commodity traders.
Yet Mr. Reischauer at Brookings said Mr. Dole's new criticism of tax breaks for corporations and special interests was not unusual.
"Virtually every member of Congress has a split personality in this respect," he said. "They want to drastically reduce the Federal Government, but at the same time stuff as much pork as they can in appropriations bills and tax legislation."
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (81%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (81%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (81%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (81%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (81%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (81%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (81%); SENATE REPUBLICANS (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE REPUBLICANS (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CORPORATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX REFORM (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FAMILY (69%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (50%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (50%); ETHANOL (50%); ALCOHOLS (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB BOB DOLE (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996



125 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Yeltsin's Health Hurts Mark; Dollar Gains on Rate Outlook

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the German mark yesterday after President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia said he would have heart surgery this month. Signs of political instability in Russia help the dollar and hurt the mark because Germany is Russia's biggest creditor and trading partner.
The dollar also benefited from speculation that the Federal Reserve would raise American interest rates soon. Traders are speculating that today's report on employment will show strong job growth, leading the Fed to increase rates. Higher rates help the dollar by making dollar-denominated investments more attractive. 
 In late New York trading, the dollar was worth 1.4854 German marks, up from 1.4805 marks on Wednesday. The dollar also rose against the Japanese yen; it was quoted at 109.13 yen, up from 108.76 yen late on Wednesday.
Mr. Yeltsin was hospitalized twice last year with heart trouble, and analysts have said that he will need surgery. "Every time there is a Yeltsin health rumor, it pushes the dollar up against the mark," said Ron Leven, currency strategist at the Morgan Guaranty Bank.
The dollar also gained against the mark because of a rise by the French franc against the German currency. When the mark falls against its European counterparts, it often slides against the dollar, too, as traders seek multiple opportunities to sell it.
The franc has suffered in recent days from speculation that France's weak economy will prevent the Government from cutting its budget deficit enough to join Europe's planned single currency. The French central bank has been buying francs in an effort to prop up the currency.
As for today's jobs report, economists polled earlier this week on average predicted that it would show that nonfarm payrolls rose 243,000 in August. Now, traders are speculating the gain will be higher.
"Expectations for payrolls are getting increasingly optimistic close to the event," said James McGroarty, chief currency manager at Potomac Babson Inc., a money management firm. "Now people are talking about a 300,000 increase. They are anticipating a strong number and that the Fed will move."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: GUARANTY BANK SSB (55%); GUARANTY BANK & TRUST CO (DENVER, COLORADO) (55%); GUARANTY BANK NA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; GERMANY; GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT GERMAN MARK (94%); CURRENCIES (92%); HEART DISEASE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS N YELTSIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



126 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Take Another Sharp Fall

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell sharply yesterday for a second consecutive session, as concerns about economic strength mounted before today's employment report for August.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 20/32 , to 953/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 7.15 percent, from 7.10 percent on Wednesday. 
 Many market participants were worrying that a particularly strong employment report would prompt the Federal Reserve's policy-making group, the Federal Open Market Committee, to raise interest rates sooner and more sharply than previously expected.
But others in the market were afraid that the data might not be conclusive enough for the Fed to raise rates, as expected, after the Presidential election.
"That the market has already priced in what is expected to be a strong employment report is not news," said Dave Shabelman, a market analyst with MMS International, San Francisco. "What needs to be determined is how much more damage can be done if the report comes in as expected."
In any case, an already nervous market was further rattled yesterday first by an unexpected drop in the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits and later by comments by Fed officials, which were seen as pointing to an increase in rates.
"It is difficult to gauge how much of a fear factor has been built in yields, which creates uncertainty as to the market reaction should the number come in close to the average forecast," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, referring to the payrolls number in the August employment report. Forecasts for the change in nonfarm payrolls range from a low of 150,000 to a high of 350,000, with the average working out to a gain of about 245,000.
Mr. Fine said there was a good chance that the August jobs data would affirm the market's view that the economy's healthy growth, while slowing to some degree, "is still above the Fed's desired pace and the F.O.M.C. will respond by tightening monetary policy at some future point."
Debate over the size and timing of the Fed's next move took on added urgency after the Labor Department reported that the number of first-time claimants for jobless benefits fell by 15,000, to 316,000, in the week that ended last Saturday. Economists had been expecting the number of jobless claims to be flat from the previous week.
Fears that the Fed might raise rates as soon as its next meeting, on Sept. 24, were fanned by comments by the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Robert McTeer, who said in a speech in Houston that the economy was "running hot." Mr. McTeer is a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee.
While he said that a slowdown in the economy had been delayed, he also added that inflation has remained moderate in the 1990's. But the suspicion in the market yesterday was that Mr. McTeer would support an increase in rates at the next meeting.
Another Fed official, Janet L. Yellen, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, told a luncheon in Kansas City, Mo., that the economy was in an "inflationary danger zone," although growth would moderate later in the year.
The comments by the Fed officials heightened the market's apprehension about today's employment report.
"The employment data has the potential of changing a lot of viewpoints about the economy and the markets," said Donald H. Strazheim, a chief economist at Merrill Lynch. "The schizophrenia comes from a strong economy and ongoing big employment gains in the midst of still low consumer and producer prices."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from May to Sept. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (60%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT D MCTEER JR (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



127 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Had Mixed Results During August

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Retailers threw out a mixed bag of back-to-school sales results yesterday, and the market responded like a stern vice principal, handing down mild praise for good performance and swift punishment for those with poor showings.
The Gap in particular took a dressing down; after several months of stellar same-store sales, or sales in stores open at least one year, the company reported flat sales for August, and its shares fell $4.875 each, or 14 percent, to $29, in heavy trading of 10.9 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, which tracks sales data from about 60 retailers, gained 3.7 percent percent last month. In August 1995, it rose a mere nine-tenths of 1 percent.
However, many in the industry agree that just as "black Friday," the Friday following Thanksgiving, has become less important as a harbinger of Christmas sales, August's role in the back-to-school season is declining.
"August is no longer indicative of how the third quarter is going to be," said Walter Loeb, a retail consultant in New York. "Sales are later. People wait for the time of need to buy."
There was inconsistency in nearly every segment, an indication that same-store sales are increasingly becoming a difficult way to measure how groups or even individual retailers are doing.
For example, Federated Department Stores disappointed analysts with a mere 2.5 percent gain, while May Department Stores delighted them with a 7.9 percent rise in sales. While the Gap was flat, Talbots and Ann Taylor Stores, which have taken beatings all year, both reported respectable gains of about 4 percent. Ross Stores, a discounter, reported an 11 percent increase, while Filene's Basement lost 1 percent.
Consistency, Wall Street's favorite quality in a retailer, is increasingly hard to find. "There used to be much more of a synergy in the performance of companies," said Peter N. Schaeffer, an analyst at Dillon, Read & Company. "If one department store had a good month, then everyone would. Today, stores are much more independent about their philosophies of how they run their business. They are willing to give up one month to get another."
Some themes of 1996 continue. Those with luxury goods to sell wealthy people, who have decided that inconspicuous consumption is no longer chic, did gangbusters -- witness Saks Fifth Avenue, which reported 13.2 percent sales growth.
And on the flip side, almost any store offering a bargain on traditional apparel enjoyed healthy same-store sales, perhaps in some cases at the expense of department stores. Further, most stores that sell computers and housewares continued to report soft sales.
What retailers are not taking away in same-store sales, they are attempting to make up for in cost, margin and inventory control, all of which they hope will enrich the bottom line. "If you look at top line growth through 1996, it has not been that strong," said Jeffrey M. Feiner, an analyst at Salomon Brothers. "But this Christmas will probably have the tightest level of expense and inventory controls in 10 years."
Retailers have all made a point of saying that they will no longer play the game of marking goods down 15 minutes after they hit the racks, insisting that they plan to improve gross profit margins by forcing shoppers to pay full price again. But shoppers may very well have acquired a taste for discounts, and may ferret them out with the tenacity of wild animals.
That means if department stores refuse to mark down, shoppers may well go to places like TJX's TJ Maxx, Value City or Target, a unit of Dayton Hudson that reported a 6 percent gain yesterday, although the parent company dropped 9.1 percent in total same-store sales.
"Back-to-school business must be promoted if it is going to happen," said Richard N. Baum, a retail analyst at Goldman, Sachs. "Because the paper is full of inserts from discounters doing just that."
Lack of promotions is one thing that clearly felled the Gap. While the rest of the retail world marked down blue jeans for fall, the Gap refused to do so, which analysts said had hurt sales. Further, while the Old Navy and Gap Kids units of the company did a smart fall business, its Banana Republic and Gap stores, which do not usually get much back-to-school business, suffered.
Although the main Gap stores are not aimed at school-age children, this did not stop the company from filling the windows with T-shirts and gym wear, which undersold women's merchandise. Wall Street, which was looking for a same-store sales increase of close to 5 percent, was not pleased.
"There are always things you would do differently," said Warren R. Hashagen, the company's chief financial officer. "We didn't all of the sudden forget how to run the business," he added. "There is always some overreaction in the market, but our performance over the long run has been good."
Indeed, the Gap has not had a positive sales growth number for the last four Augusts. "If we had taken a good hard look at August historically we should have seen this," said Anita Gallitano, a retail analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons in Baltimore.
Specialty retailers as a group reported strong same-store sales largely in comparison with the dismal numbers from the year before. The group went up against the easiest set of previous-year sales numbers since Goldman, Sachs began its retail index in 1988.
While most analysts were bullish about the Christmas season, others cautioned that good numbers in August could blow away in the fall breeze, just as good February sales melted with the snow last spring.
"We are not seeing a turnaround in retail that is all that strong," said Mr. Schaeffer, the analyst. "Hard goods are still a problem. With clothing, people are replenishing, not rebuilding, wardrobes. We have been so disappointed month by month, and I need to see some consistency to get on the bandwagon."

GRAPHIC: Graph/Chart: "Retailers' Sales in August" shows year-to-year change in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index from April 1995 to Aug. 1996. and lists changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index and over all changes in sales for selected stores for the four weeks ended Aug. 31. (Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports)(pg. D13)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%); ANN (NYSE) (58%); ROST (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO MACY'S INC (91%); DILLON READ & CO INC (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ANN INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (53%); ROSS STORES INC (53%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); THANKSGIVING (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



128 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Car and Truck Sales Mostly Off in August

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Sales of cars and trucks sagged in August, signaling that auto sales in the last half of the year will be significantly off the unexpectedly brisk pace set in the spring and early summer, auto executives, economists and Wall Street analysts said today. Over all, car and truck sales dropped 2.3 percent from the comparable period a year ago.
The Ford Motor Company reported today that its August sales slipped 6.3 percent from their strong performance a year earlier, which was in line with the weak sales reported by other auto makers earlier this week. General Motors announced on Wednesday that its sales slid 7.9 percent, and the Honda Motor Company said its sales dropped 13.7 percent. Among American auto makers, only the Chrysler Corporation bucked the trend -- its sales rising 9.2 percent in August, though less than analysts had expected. 
 Ford's chairman, Alexander Trotman, said today, "It is clear to us that the market has really slowed down in the last three months compared with the first five months" of the year.
The dwindling car and truck sales mean that a large segment of the United States economy has slowed. Because auto sales are one of the first indicators available of monthly economic activity, economists watch them closely as a signal from consumers, and the Federal Reserve considers them as it decides whether to change interest rates.
Auto makers fear any rate increase because higher interest rates make it harder for people to afford new cars and trucks, the payments commonly financed over several years. Mr. Trotman pointed to the industry sales figures as evidence that the Fed should leave rates untouched. "There is very clearly a slowdown," he said, "and I hope that that's observed by the Fed."
Some analysts have speculated that Federal Reserve policy makers may push rates up later this month -- perhaps even on Friday, depending on the strength of the Labor Department's report then on unemployment and payroll levels.
At Ford, sales of cars were weaker than sales of pickup trucks, mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, following a pattern throughout the industry. Ford's car sales slid 8.4 percent in August, while the sales of light trucks dropped 4.4 percent.
Sales of the company's family sedans, the Ford Taurus and the Mercury Sable, rose 1.9 percent in August. But sales of the Ford Explorer, the popular sport utility vehicle, dropped 10.7 percent. Sales of the F-series pickup trucks was up 1.7 percent, but were hampered by short supplies. Ford said that would improve later this year because it has doubled the number of factories building the trucks.
John A. Casesa, an auto analyst at Schroder Wertheim & Company, said that Ford's slower-than-expected sales suggested that the company had broken its practice of slapping costly rebates on slow-selling cars and trucks to keep its share of the overall market high. The August figures show that "there is a limit to how much money Ford will spend to keep its share," Mr. Casesa said.
While sales across the industry were still relatively strong, they were lower than had been expected. Economists and Wall Street analysts agreed that the sharply slower sales figures for July, coupled with August's disappointing sales, represented the beginning of a trend and that they showed that the brisk sales pace set earlier this year was unsustainable. Most predict that for the year, the industry will sell around 15 million light vehicles.
This month, sales ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 15.8 million, up from 14.2 million in July. But analysts and economists cautioned that both numbers were misleading because of blips in the seasonal factors used by the Commerce Department in calculating the rates. Indeed, most analysts were disregarding the annual-rate figures because, they said, vagaries in the seasonal factors caused the July rates to understate the pace of sales but caused the August rates to overstate the sales pace.
"The Fed well understands the quirks in the numbers, and will read July and August combined as saying at least one sector of the economy is showing slight weakness, but that is just one sector of the economy," said Ronald A. Glantz, an auto analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds.
"There is no question that sales in the second half will trail not only the second half of last year, but also the first half of this year," Mr. Glantz said.
"Part of what you are seeing today is the payback for earlier gains," said Diane C. Swonk, an economist at First Chicago NBD Bank in Chicago. "It still will be a decent year, even with a slowdown in the second half."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in August" shows U.S. vehicles sales statistics for August. (Source: Company reports; Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (71%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (70%); SCHRODER WERTHEIM & CO INC (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); SALES FIGURES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); PICKUP TRUCKS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SEDANS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



129 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2820 words

HEADLINE: Life Beyond Avenue A

BYLINE: By NEIL STRAUSS 

 BODY:
I DECIDED to move out of my neighborhood in Alphabet City the night I heard a couple getting held up at gunpoint outside my window.
By the time the police came, the incident had long since ended, without a gunshot. But from that day on (it was about a year ago), I kept pepper spray under my bed. Every time I heard a noise in the front of my apartment while I was sleeping in the back, I mentally rehearsed my escape route. I also began the arduous and humbling adventure that is searching for an apartment in Manhattan. 
 But then something strange happened. A fortune teller opened up shop in the middle of my block. A neighbor began having 36-hour art parties, open to the public in his basement studio. And workers began renovating a closed bodega, until recently a squalid little drug front where neighbors used to hear crack addicts. The place was on its way to becoming a Cajun restaurant. Day by day, my block was being reclaimed from the world of the dealers and the dealt.
And it wasn't just my block. All over Avenue B, and the streets stretching off it to the east and the west, bars and restaurants, ethnic bookstores and curio shops began sprouting. A community bank, the Lower East Side People's Federal Credit Union, appeared on Avenue B and Third Street, offering the first cash machine east of Avenue A. It was inevitable. St. Marks Place, between Third and Second Avenues, was changing from a block of unusual and interesting independent stores to a strip mall with chains like the Gap and Subway. Avenue A, once populated almost exclusively by punks and first- and second-generation immigrants, had become the new Bleecker Street, a pub crawl for revelers from New Jersey and Long Island, Europe and Asia. The independent entrepreneurs, the New Yorkers with a quirky idea and a little capital, needed a new neighborhood, where they could afford to pay their rent without having to rely on heavy traffic. So they moved east of Avenue A.
Were these the shock troops of gentrification? Were they good or bad for the community? I asked my neighbors.
"I used to go to the store with a .38 in my belt," said Russell Harvey, a 42-year-old employee of Janovic Plaza who was born on Avenue D. "Now you don't need anything anymore. The neighborhood has changed tremendously, for the better."
Sarah Ferguson, who has written about the area for The Village Voice since the late 80's, said: "I feel like the neighborhood has lost its soul. There's no center. There's not the same sense of community and neighborhood. We're in the midst of a huge shift."
New Ventures
Some new places that open want to serve the community already in place; others want to stake a claim on what they predict will be a coming commercial explosion. Richard Wright, a neighborhood resident who is a partner in the restaurants and bars Mecca and the Shark Bar, stands somewhere in the middle. He recently opened a new restaurant, Alejandra's Adopt, a sofa and armchair-lined hangout on Avenue B near 11th Street selling reasonably priced, Caribbean-accented fare from a menu in Portuguese and English.
"I think it's bad when you push poor people out and people of color," Mr. Wright said. "Sometimes I look at myself and say I'm part of the problem. But I'm also putting money back in the neighborhood, running one of the only black-owned businesses around and trying to stay part of the community."
For many New Yorkers and tourists, Avenue A is a boundary line, east of which they will not cross. Beyond Avenue A, the streets get darker, the commercial offerings more sporadic. Stepping through a brightly lighted doorway could take you into a trendy new bar or a cockfight in progress, a fence may hide a burgeoning community garden or a sprawling garbage dump.
East of Avenue A, the night life is more spread out. Thrill-seekers don't wander; they head to a destination. A few are well-known tourist meccas, and others are local dives. There are after-hours clubs both established (Save the Robots on Avenue B, near Third Street) and obscure (Buono Sera, on Fourth Street near Avenue C). There are gay and lesbian hot spots that might have anything from techno dances to demo-tape listening nights, like Cake on Avenue B off Sixth Street, the Crow Bar on 10th Street, and Meow Mix on Houston Street. Then there are the usual one- and two-room bars, most equipped with high-quality jukeboxes: Joe's on Sixth Street, Mona's on Avenue B and 13th Street, S. T. Bar on 11th Street, and Sophie's, Ace Bar and the new Bouche Bar, all on Fifth Street.
For the most part, bars, restaurants and shops cater mostly to those who live in the neighborhood. This may not be true for long. The CMJ Music Marathon, a rock convention that runs through Sunday, has events planned at Save the Robots and elsewhere, drawing hundreds of out-of-towners to the Lower East Side. Tonight through Sunday, the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, a spoken-word and poetry-slam mecca on Third Street east of Avenue B that has been a pillar for neighborhood artists on and off since the 1970's, plans poetry readings and music. And the neighborhood's portrayal in everything from the musical "Rent" to the movie "Joe's Apartment," both of which had scenes set at the hip, healthy Life Cafe on Avenue B and 10th Street, is certainly adding to the area's reputation as a low-rent bohemian paradise. In addition, chain stores have already found the neighborhood. There is a Kinko's Copies and a Blockbuster on Houston Street, between Avenues B and C, and a Rite-Aid Pharmacy on Avenue D and Seventh Street. Later this month, the ultimate sign of gentrification, a health club -- the Powerhouse Gym -- will open on Third Street, east of Avenue A.
But that's it. The rest of the far East Village must be discovered through word of mouth and careful exploration. And unless you know where the street Szold Place is, you cannot truly claim to have explored the East Village. The new Bad Dog Bar, on the corner of Avenue C and Ninth Street, for example, has a low-key storefront and tinted windows, a strategy of its owners to make the place look intimidating to tourists and passers-by so that locals have a friendly place to themselves.
The neighborhood hides a lifetime of secrets. It may be one of the most ethnically, economically and culturally mixed areas in the world. German, Irish, Ukrainian and Jewish immigrants continue to live there, alongside yuppies and squatters, Dominicans and Puerto Ricans, students and punks, addicts and artists. A parade marching down Avenue B may be squatters protesting their eviction from East 13th Street, Puerto Ricans celebrating their Independence Day, residents trying to protect their community gardens or addicts on their way to a needle exchange.
This week I spent some time at Avenue B's newest and perhaps riskiest venture, Cafe Margaux. It is upscale for Avenue B, offering a personal take on French cuisine with entrees from $12 to $18. The restaurant's chef and owner, Peggy Bregovich, knows the neighborhood he's getting involved with. "There wouldn't be much going on over here if it wasn't for the squatters," he said. "They brought life to this neighborhood and made it look good."
Mr. Bregovich, who used to own a bar in Sarajevo before he studied French cooking, said he was torn between opening a restaurant on Bleecker Street and on Avenue B. As he told of his reasons for choosing a neighborhood on the rise instead of one on the wane, a representative of the Adrian Chalk company came in to sell him wines. Accompanying him was Paul Ochs, one of the owners of Tompkins 131, a new American restaurant on Avenue A. As Mr. Bregovich insisted on being sold at least one case of French wine costing $38 a bottle, Mr. Ochs told him: "You're on the edge here on Avenue B. The cutting edge."
Mr. Bregovich, partly sarcastic, partly serious and partly flushed from the wine, replied, "I am the John Wayne of the restaurant frontier." Most people opening up shop on Avenue B feel that to do so a year ago would have been a bad idea because the neighborhood was too quiet, and to do it next year would be too late, because it will be too loud.
Music and Athletics
"I'm sure in two years Avenue B is going to be the new Avenue A and we'll move somewhere else," said James Marshall, a writer, disk jockey and rock historian known to WFMU-FM listeners as the Hound. A neighborhood resident of 19 years, he is one of the owners of the Lakeside Lounge. It is one of the East Village's best new dives, selling cheap cans of Milwaukee's Best beer, presenting occasional free concerts and offering one of the neighborhood's smartest jukeboxes, with some of pop, jazz and rock's most influential and obscure CD's.
During the day, the East Village has another face, one that doesn't have beer froth on its lips. One summer, I discovered the East Village Country Club, open to members of any race, class and religion without charge. That's not really its name, but that's what it is. In the East River Park, east of Avenue D, there are nicely maintained tennis courts, a track and athletic fields. After working up a sweat, one can cool off during the summer at the beautifully renovated Hamilton Fish pool on Pitt Street off Avenue C, which comes complete with free lockers, gymnastics bars and, for an annual fee of $25, a weight room and pool table.
Afterward, there are dozens of dining options. For a filling meal, there's Mama's on Third Street and Avenue B, a home-cooking haven where plates piled high with vegetables, pasta and chicken cost $7 to $9. For lighter fare, there's Native Coffee on Avenue C and 11th Street, an organic snack shop run by natives of the Americas. And then there's the East Village's newest vegetarian addition, Kate's Joint, on Avenue B between Fourth and Fifth Streets, a cute, homey new restaurant on the site of many failed ones. The menu offers an "unturkey club," an "unsausage patty" and "Southern-fried unchicken cutlets"; there's even a children's menu. Other favorite food spots include the original Pan-Asian cuisine at O. G. (which either stands for Oriental Grill or Original Gangsta) on Sixth Street, the kitchen-sink Southern cooking at the Old Devil Moon on 12th Street, and the Puerto Rican fare of Casa Adela on Avenue C between Fifth and Fourth Streets.
Fresh Vegetables
On warm weekends, there's even a farmers' market in Tompkins Square Park. And Ray Kelly and Tovey Hallick, creative metalworkers who were recently evicted from the sculpture garden they built at the former Gas Station on Avenue B and Second Street, have moved to a garden on Sixth Street east of Avenue B, where they are selling organic vegetables and cultivating the area metallically. What looks like the rusted shell of a refrigerator juts from the garden's elaborate fence, with a net hanging into the street so that neighborhood children can play basketball. Abandoned couches farther up the block, always with a group of punks or homeless people on them, add to the block's aura as an outdoor community center.
Towering over the block, in the garden on the corner of Sixth Street and Avenue B, where sporadic poetry readings and concerts take place, sits a giant junk sculpture of stuffed animals and scrap electronics, the motley Empire State Building of the neighborhood since it was built by Ed Boros seven years ago.
On Avenue B between Sixth and Seventh Streets is one of the city's best and most tasteful (though not its cheapest) secondhand clothing stores, Metropolis. Nearby are places for custom-made leather gear (Primal Stuff), tattoos (East Side Inc.) and piercings (Venus Modern Body Arts), as well as other used clothing stores like Anna, where the transformation from tourist to East Village denizen can be completed.
Books and Antiques
Of course, leather, piercings, used-clothes and tattoos do not a hipster make. To add substance to fashion, try spending some time at Blackout Books, on Avenue B between Third and Fourth Streets. It is a friendly underground political and intellectual bookstore where you can brush up on anarchism and multiculturalism, underground comics and fanzines, the abolition of work, and the right to squat. Agueybana Bookstore, on Avenue B between 11th and 12th Streets, offers insight into the area's Puerto Rican community, with English- and Spanish-language history, literature and philosophy as well as occasional readings, workshops and lectures.
Though some good cheap finds can be made at the flea markets on Sundays along Avenue C and Ninth Street east of C, one of the East Village's best-kept secrets is Miracle on Ninth Street, run by John Mayo, a former homeless addict who cleaned his life up and opened a tastefully cluttered antiques store complete with a cafe and, on weekend nights, live jazz.
In addition to the many graffiti memorials to the neighborhood's casualties by Chico Garcia, art studios and galleries also line the blocks east of Avenue A: some remain mysterious, like the message on the doorways marked with words like "react", and the neighborhood vehicle topped with the sign "artists at large." Others range from boundary-pushing East Village art at the B-Side Gallery on Sixth Street to multicultural art at the Wilmer Jennings Gallery on Second Street to group projects by children and community members at K.O.A.P. on 11th Street.
If there's anything that links this community together, it's something invisible: radio waves. The Lower East Side may be the only neighborhood with its own pirate radio station, called Steal This Radio, at 88.7-FM, where punk-rock and information about shelters, American Indian prayers and local events mix and mingle in a format as eclectic and ragtag as the area itself. A schedule for the radio station can be found not just in anarchist-oriented bookstores like Blackout, but also restaurants like Kate's Joint.
If anything is going to keep Avenue B from becoming the new Avenue A, it will be the community's self-awareness. As J. C., a bartender at S.T. said: "I don't think they want to be Avenue A here. They want something that is Avenue B."
 
Clubs, Stores, Restaurants and Galleries in East Village
 
Here is information about the places mentioned in the article on the East Village:

 Restaurant, Bars and Clubs
 ALEJANDRA'S ADOPT, 190 Avenue B, at 11th Street, (212) 353-2299.
 SAVE THE ROBOTS, 25 Avenue B, at Third Street, (212) 995-0968.
 BUONO SERA, 355 East Fourth Street. No telephone. Opens after 3:30 A.M.
 CAKE, 99 Avenue B, at Sixth Street. No telephone.
 THE CROW BAR, 339 East 10th Street, (212) 228-4448.
 MEOW MIX, 269 Houston Street, (212) 254-1434.
 JOE'S, 520 East Sixth Street. No telephone.
 MONA'S, 224 Avenue B, at 13th Street, (212) 353-3780.
 S. T. BAR, 632 East 11th Street, (212) 475-8270.
 SOPHIE'S, 507 East Fifth Street, (212) 228-5680.
 ACE BAR, 531 East Fifth Street, (212) 979-8476.
 BOUCHE BAR, 540 East Fifth Street, (212) 475-1673.
 NUYORICAN POETS CAFE, 236 East Third Street, (212) 505-8183.
 LIFE CAFE, 343 East 10th Street, at Avenue B, (212) 477-8791.
 BARCODE (BAD DOG BAR), 700 East Ninth Street, (212) 358-0048.
 CAFE MARGAUX, Avenue B at 11th Street, (212) 260-7960.
 LAKESIDE LOUNGE, 162 Avenue B, at 10th Street, (212) 529-8463.
 MAMA'S FOOD SHOP, 200 East Third Street, (212) 777-4425.
 NATIVE COFFEE, 185 Avenue C, at 11th Street, (212) 982-7878.
 KATE'S JOINT, 58 Avenue B, at Fourth Street, (212) 777-7059.
 O. G., 507 East Sixth Street, (212) 477-4649.
 OLD DEVIL MOON, 511 East 12th Street, (212) 475-4357.
 CASA ADELA, 66 Avenue C, at Fifth Street, (212) 473-1882.
 Sports and Recreation
 POWERHOUSE GYM, 155 East Third Street, (212) 533-0090. Opening Sept. 15.
 HAMILTON FISH POOL, 128 Pitt Street, (212) 387-7687. Pool closed until July 4th weekend. Indoor fitness center open now.
Stores
 METROPOLIS, 96 Avenue B, at Sixth Street, (212) 477-3941.
 PRIMAL STUFF, 189 East Third Street, (212) 674-1491.
 EAST SIDE INC., 155 East Second Street, at Avenue A, (212) 388-0693.
 VENUS MODERN BODY ARTS, 199 East Fourth Street, (212) 473-1954.
 ANNA, 150 East Third Street, (212) 358-0195.
 BLACKOUT BOOKS, 50 Avenue B, at Third Street, (212) 777-1967.
 AGUEYBANA BOOKSTORE, 192 Avenue B, at 12th Street, (212) 539-1662.
 MIRACLE ON NINTH STREET, 606 East Ninth Street, (212) 249-8734.
Galleries
 B-SIDE GALLERY, 543 East Sixth Street, (212) 228-6367.
 WILMER JENNINGS GALLERY, 219 East Second Street, (212) 674-3939.
 K.O.A.P., 500 East 11th Street. No telephone listing.
Parks
 TOMPKINS SQUARE PARK, East 10th and Seventh Streets, and Avenues A and B, (800) 201-PARK.
 EAST RIVER PARK, Montgomery to 12th Streets, from the East River to the East River Drive, (800) 201-PARK.
Gardens
 RIVINGTON SCHOOL SCULPTURE GARDEN, 603 East Sixth Street, (212) 966-7746.
 GARDEN, Sixth Street and Avenue B.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lounging by the jukebox at the new Lakeside Lounge. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); Poetry with a hip-hop beat at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); Late-night dancing at Save the Robots on Avenue B. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); A game of pool at the Meow Mix bar at 269 Houston Street, near Avenue B. (Norman Y Lono for The New York Times); Sunflowers and sculpture in garden at Sixth Street and Avenue B. (Norman Y Lono for The New York Times) (pg. C1); The diverse night life east of Avenue A is made up of scattered specific destinations, like the S. T. bar on 11th Street. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. C17)
 
Map of Lower East Side showing the location of clubs mentioned in the article. (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (77%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST VILLAGE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (77%); EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BARS; RESTAURANTS; BOOK TRADE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); BOOKSTORES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); COCAINE (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); COMMUNITY BANKS (65%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL AVENUE A IT (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



130 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Guillermina Rico, Boss of Mexico Vendors, 63

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Guillermina Rico, a lemon peddler who bargained her way to wealth and power as the head of a political machine she forged from the ranks of Mexico City's itinerant vendors, died on Wednesday of a cerebral hemorrhage. She was 63.
In the market stalls and side streets she was known as La Jefa, the boss, and at her death her office walls were adorned with photos of the curly-haired matriarch, often wearing a trademark white apron, with senators, mayors, police chiefs and every Mexican president since Jose Lopez Portillo took office in 1976. 
 Today 2,000 people marched three miles from the city center to a weed-choked cemetery in a working class suburb, bearing Mrs. Rico's coffin to a plot wafting with the scent of lily and lavender and heaped with scores of wreaths. The trumpets of a mariachi sounded a dirge.
"I feel like an orphan," said Pablo Ibarra, a 45-year-old vendor who accompanied her coffin. "She helped me, and many others, to earn an honest living on the streets."
In a 40-year career, Mrs. Rico led thousands of market peddlers through cycles of street war and peace with successive Mexico City mayors, who have repeatedly sought to clear the streets of the informal merchants who block sidewalks in front of tax-paying businesses. Sometimes the vendors have been removed to suburban markets, but always they have returned.
The vendors, whose ranks swelled during years of economic crisis as farmers lost their land and factory workers were dismissed, hawk everything from tortillas to tires to pirated American music tapes. Today Mexico City's central market is among the largest outlets in the world for contraband.
Mrs. Rico was born in 1934 in the downtown neighborhood of La Merced into a clan of street sellers. Both parents migrated to Mexico City during the Depression from outlying states. Guillermina's three brothers, Manuel, Fernando and Candido, also devoted their lives to street commerce, Roberto Hidalgo Lopez, one of Mrs. Rico's advisers said in a cemetery speech today.
Both of Mrs. Rico's parents died when she was a teen-ager, and Mrs. Rico was forced to give up school after fourth grade, Mr. Hidalgo said.
She began working the street at age 15, peddling lemons and avocados, and three years later, married another vendor: Salvador Sanchez Velazquez. They had four children.
In 1946, Mrs. Rico joined the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, and eventually she organized the vendors into a powerful bloc that cast thousands of ballots for the governing party.
During the early years, Mrs. Rico's leadership was informal, but in 1965 she organized 500 merchants into the Civic Union of Street Vendors of Old Merced. Twenty years later, the union's ranks had swelled to 3,000, and by 1985 it stood at 7,000.
Mrs. Rico gained the power to assign the choicest market stalls, for which she charged a quota, and those and other revenues made her wealthy. The Chamber of Commerce estimate in 1988 that Mrs. Rico and other union leaders collected about $1 million annually.
She funneled vast sums into the pockets of city authorities, partly to forestall their periodic threats to remove the vendors. Some of her riches she channeled into social work, and she once responded to a reporter's question about what she had done for Mexico: "Ask the priests in the downtown churches who is the one that helps them. Go to the shelters. Ask the drug addicts and the alcoholics undergoing rehabilitation."
She is survived by her brother Candido, her four children, Silvia, Margarita, Isabel, and Salvador, all of whom live in Mexico City, and 16 grandchildren, Mr. Hidalgo said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guillermina Rico during a demonstration in Mexico City last September. (Associated Press, 1995)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO CITY (MEXICO); MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; VENDORS, STREET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (76%); SUBURBS (74%); ORPHANS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); CHILDREN (67%); DISMISSALS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: RICO, GUILLERMINA; DILLON, SAM JOSE LOPEZ PORTILLO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



131 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

BILL CLINTON
Speaking yesterday to elderly people gathered at the Sunrise Musical Theater in Sunrise, Fla.:
"Everybody wants us to save Medicare. Everybody knows that we're all living longer and staying healthier. And that's good, isn't it? I mean, I think that's pretty good. 
 "So when somebody tells me, Mr. President, we got this terrible problem with Medicare. Since the inflation per person is not going up, it's just that people are living longer, and the longer you live, the more health care you use. To me, that's a high-class problem. I mean, I don't understand all this hand-wringing. That's a high-class problem if we got people living longer and being healthier and hanging around and doing things. I think that's a pretty high-class problem. I don't understand why everybody is going around like Chicken Little, 'Oh, the sky is falling; we have problems in Medicare because everybody is living.'
"I thought that was the object. I thought that was the point of the deal.
"Do you know, if you live in the United States -- this is very interesting -- in 1985, because of Social Security and S.S.I., for the first time in the history of our country, people over 65 had a lower poverty rate than people under 65. And because of Medicare and Medicaid, because of the things you can buy into with them, now if you live to be 65 in the United States, we have the highest life expectancy of any country in the world among people who live to be 65 going forward."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE LIFE EXPECTANCY (91%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MEDICARE FRAUD (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); MEDICAID (58%); POVERTY RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



132 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: The Unthinkable Becomes a TV Event: Cuban Aide Debates Anti-Castro Leader

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 5

 BODY:
In an initiative that has unsettled hard-liners both here and in Havana, a senior Cuban Government official and the leader of the most powerful anti-Castro Cuban exile group in the United States faced off in a rare direct encounter as part of an unusual debate broadcast tonight.
Deviating from the orthodoxy that prevails on both sides of the Straits of Florida, Ricardo Alarcon, president of Cuba's National Assembly, and Jorge Mas Canosa, chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation, discussed for more than an hour issues like human rights and the American economic embargo. 
 Their views contrasted sharply, as expected, but that was overshadowed by the political significance of their even speaking to one another.
Mr. Mas Canosa's exile group lobbied successfully this year for passage of the Helms-Burton Act extending the embargo, and is regarded by friend and foe alike as a principal architect of American policy toward Cuba. For its part, the Cuban Government has in the past limited its contacts with exile groups to those critical of American policy.
The debate was taped on Aug. 23 and broadcast by CBS TeleNoticias. The all-news, Spanish-language cable network has its headquarters here and arranged for Mr. Alarcon to speak from a studio in Havana. The encounter, which diplomats said could have occurred only with the personal approval of President Fidel Castro, was transmitted to more than 20 Latin American countries and broadcast in Miami, but was not televised in Cuba. The program is scheduled to be seen in New York on Sept. 14 on WNJU, Channel 47.
At first, Mr. Alarcon, who is generally regarded as Cuba's third most powerful official, seemed uncharacteristically restrained in his role as spokesman for Mr. Castro and the Cuban Revolution. When asked how history will judge Mr. Castro, he replied, "Well, obviously one will have to wait."
Mr. Mas Canosa, on the other hand, took an aggressive tone at the start, saying that Mr. Castro's life "is one huge lie" and that the Cuban Government had spread "thousands of slanders and insults" about his group "and about me personally."
But the evening ended with Mr. Mas Canosa, a multimillionaire with interests in construction and telecommunications, saying he can envision circumstances in which he would be willing to work with Mr. Alarcon.
"If Fidel Castro leaves the Cuban political scene and Ricardo Alarcon becomes the man heading a democratic transition, would you give him all your economic support?" asked one of the panelists moderating the debate.
"If he wins in a free democratic election," Mr. Mas Canosa replied, "we would support him, yes sir."
The Cuban Government maintains that the exchange between these bitterest of enemies is not the start of some larger political process.
"Cuba has not had a dialogue, and will not have a dialogue, with hysterics, mafia types and annexationists," Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said in Havana last week.
Nevertheless, Cuba has been unable to explain why a senior official has broken with a longstanding policy of avoiding all contact with hard-line Cuban exile groups that Havana routinely describes as "that mafia in Miami." Mr. Mas Canosa in particular has been the target of some of the harshest language.
"It means nothing," Marianela Ferriol, a spokesman for the Cuban Foreign Ministry, said at the ministry's weekly news briefing in Havana in response to questions from reporters. "There is no dialogue, there is no debate, there is no recognition."
Reached by telephone today, a secretary at Mr. Alarcon's office in Havana said he was traveling outside the capital and therefore unavailable to explain his reasons for agreeing to the debate.
Diplomats in Havana attributed the Foreign Ministry's evident unease with the debate to personal and ideological rivalries within the Cuban Government. Mr. Alarcon is a former Foreign Minister and is still Cuba's chief negotiator with the United States on immigration and other issues.
In remarks to the official Cuban press agency Prensa Latina last week, Mr. Robaina criticized Mr. Alarcon's action without naming him. Appearances with enemies of the revolution "try to introduce confusion over the traditional positions of Cuba, which have not changed," Mr. Robaina said.
The debate also marked a shift of attitude on the part of the Cuban American National Foundation, which in the past has criticized rival Cuban exile groups here that favor dialogue with the Cuban Government as part of a transition to the post-Castro era. Indeed, some exiles have in recent days accused Mr. Mas Canosa of abandoning the principles of a 37-year-old struggle.
"We could not pass up an opportunity to express our point of view to a high-ranking representative of the Cuban Government," Mr. Mas Canosa said in an interview with a Spanish-language radio station here when asked why he agreed to take participate. "Reason and truth were on our side, the side of the victims."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The debate between Jorge Mas Canosa, left, a vigorous anti-Castro exile, and Ricardo Alarcon, a trusted Castro adviser, was broadcast last night. (CBS-TeleNoticias)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CUBAN GOVERNMENT (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUBAN GOVERNMENT (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DEBATING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REFUGEES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); LIBEL & SLANDER (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); 

PERSON: MAS CANOSA, JORGE; ALARCON, RICARDO; ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



133 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Kemp Earned $6.9 Million, Mostly as Speaker, Since '92

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Jack Kemp, the Republican Vice Presidential nominee, made $6.9 million, mostly in speaking fees, in the three years after he stepped down from his job as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, according to income tax returns released today by the Dole-Kemp campaign.
Mr. Kemp had been earning $189,900 a year in his Government job when he left in 1992 to go on the lecture circuit and eventually join the boards of a dozen corporations. 
 He also co-founded Empower America, a conservative nonprofit group that has provided a base for his work as a speaker. The organization, formed in 1993 and underwritten by a New York investment banker, Theodore J. Forstmann, and several other men, helped keep Mr. Kemp's economic ideas, particularly his advocacy of tax cuts as a way to stimulate growth, in the spotlight.
In 1995, Mr. Kemp and his wife, Joanne, had a total income of $1,893,504 and paid Federal income taxes of $648,971. They donated $25,641 to charities, or about 1.5 percent of their income.
Of his 1995 income, about $1.2 million came from fees for dozens of speeches. Among these were a total of $73,000 for three engagements at Deloitte & Touche, the consulting and accounting firm, $24,000 for each of two appearances in May before the General Motors Corporation, and $32,000 from the American Automobile Association. He got speaking fees from a wide range of companies, associations, investment firms and universities. He earned about $2.1 million in such fees in 1993, and about $1.8 million as a speaker in 1994.
In 1995, he was also paid a salary of $136,060 by the Heritage Foundation and received honorariums of $200,566 and directors fees of $101,139 for serving on the company boards.
Mr. Kemp, a former professional football player, also released a medical report and records that show him to be in "excellent overall health," said his doctor, W. Tabb Moore, of the Georgetown University Medical Center. Mr. Kemp had a "minor problem" related to gastritis caused by an over-the-counter pain reliever, Dr. Moore said in his report. Mr. Kemp's cholesterol level was normal, Dr. Moore said.
The 10 years of tax documents released today show that Mr. Kemp has a broad investment portfolio and that he bought and sold a wide range of stocks last year, including shares in high-technology, health care and casino and gambling-related companies.
A recent review of the returns by an accounting firm for the Dole campaign showed that Mr. Kemp had improperly miscalculated the taxable portion of his Federal pension, and as a result underpaid his taxes for 1993 and 1994 by $16,097, and overpaid his 1995 taxes by $278. He will file amended returns for those years.
The Kemps will put most of their assets into a blind trust, his campaign said today.
As of Aug. 20, the couple held securities worth between $594,078 and $2.7 million, according to a financial disclosure form released today. The document, required by the Federal law of all Federal candidates, reports the value of assets in broad categories. Other Kemp investments, including real estate, partnerships and retirements accounts were valued between $1.9 million and $2.5 million, for a total of assets worth between $2.5 million and $6 million.
Mr. Kemp resigned from his foundation and corporate positions as of today, his campaign said, and from the boards of 31 nonprofit organizations. He remains on the boards of 13 nonprofit groups, including National Football League Charities, the Don Shula Foundation, Howard University, Habitat for Humanity, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and the Y.M.C.A. of the U.S.A.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp, continuing his swing through important swing states like Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania, answered questions yesterday at a campaign stop at Bishop McCort High School in Johnstown, Pa. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (67%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (67%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (67%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CITIES (72%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (50%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (50%); ANALGESICS (50%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); 

PERSON: FRITSCH, JANE; KEMP, JACK F THEODORE FORSTMANN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



134 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Education Gap Between Races Closes

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
After steadily improving their educational performance for five decades, young blacks are for the first time getting high school diplomas in roughly the same proportions as young whites, the Census Bureau reported today.
The report found that 86.5 percent of blacks ages 25 to 29 held high school diplomas in 1995, compared with 87.4 percent of whites of the same ages. The numbers were based on a March 1995 survey of 55,000 households, bureau officials said. They said the margin of error made the figures statistically equivalent. 
 But bureau and other Federal officials cautioned that while the gap in secondary education had closed, there was still a wide disparity in incomes between whites and blacks, in part because the job market now placed more value on college degrees. A higher proportion of whites than blacks graduate from college, at a time with the income disparity between high school graduates and college graduates in general has widened.
The report, "Educational Attainment in the United States: March, 1995," also found that Hispanic adults age 25 to 29 were lagging even further behind whites and blacks than they had previously.
In addition, the report suggests that the dazzling educational climb of Asian-Americans shows signs of slowing.
The accuracy of census reports has often been questioned because they are based on information that people provide about themselves.
But the new report is based on one of the most widely used polls conducted by the Census Bureau.
The poll, the Current Population Survey, is considered highly reliable. In it, the bureau asks a random sample of Americans a variety of questions. One of its uses is to determine the unemployment rate.
In determining high school completion, the survey includes those with a traditional high school diploma or an equivalency certificate.
The blurring of the difference between black and white high school graduation rates was one of a number of hopeful signs contained in the report, which found that the percentage of all adults obtaining a high school diploma is the highest since the bureau began keeping track.
The survey, which was first used in the 1940's, has found that educational disparity slowly decreased over the past 50 years as blacks made major gains and white graduation rates leveled off in the 1970's.
The current poll found that high school completion rates peaked for whites, blacks, men and women, even as it declined for Hispanics and Asians.
In addition, last year, 23 percent of adults at least 25 years old have earned at least a bachelor's degree, another record.
"The overall trend is that more people are getting more educated and replacing the older group that is less educated," said Jennifer Day, chief of the bureau's Education and Social Stratification Branch. "When you look within groups you see that those that were not so well represented before are really catching up. Something is happening out there."
But not all of it is good, the report said. A smaller percentage of Hispanics held high school diplomas in 1995 than held them in 1992, and the proportion of Hispanics who have completed four years of college has dropped by nearly 20 percent since 1988.
And bureau officials said that the percentage of Asian-Americans aged 25 to 29 who have completed high school has dropped to 80.1 percent in 1995, from 85.8 percent in 1990. The proportion of Asian-Americans in that age group with college degrees slipped to 29.1 percent from 34.8 percent during the same period.
But bureau officials said they were unsure whether the decline is real or is merely a statistical error, since the number of Asian-Americans surveyed was so small.
"It's hard to know with such a small sample what's going on," Ms. Day said.
Bureau officials said a possible reason for the lagging performance of Hispanics was the large influx of immigrants, with low levels of education. That assertion is disputed by officials of some Hispanic groups.
Asserting that two-thirds of all Hispanic students are native-born, Charles Kamasaki, senior vice president of the National Council of La Raza, attributed the relatively poor performance of Hispanics to segregation, lack of special language training, poor resources and the low expectations of school officials.
Experts say the closing of the gap in high school graduation rates between blacks and whites belies popular images of hopelessness and despair in inner-city schools.
And other evidence suggests that the increases in the percentage of blacks graduating from high school is not the result of schools merely promoting unqualified students to move them through the system.
For example, since 1970, black students have made progress in raising their scores on standardized tests given as part of the Department of Education's National Assessment of Educational Progress program. The increase in black test scores has been greater than that of white and Hispanic students. But while blacks have caught up with whites in earning high school diplomas since the mid-1970's, their mean earnings relative to that of whites has improved only slightly, to 74 percent in 1994 from 70 percent in 1974.
"This may be a case of running fast to stand still," said Christopher Jencks, a professor of sociology at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. "You have a situation where the black kids coming out of school are better qualified, but the number of jobs that they are qualified for is actually shrinking." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; DEGREES, ACADEMIC SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); CENSUS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A JENNIFER DAY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



135 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: New York Officials Vow to Sue To Keep Bronx Factory Open

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
City and state economic officials announced last night that they would sue a manufacturer in New Jersey for breach of contract unless it agreed to continue operating the Farberware plant in the South Bronx for three more months.
The officials said they needed the cooperation of the company, U.S. Industries of Edison, to keep the plant open until December to give them time to find cookware distributors or department stores that would agree to buy large quantities of the plant's pots and pans. Such an effort could help the factory survive. 
 The fate of the plant, the largest factory in the Bronx, has been dim since May, when the Syratech Corporation, which bought the plant's assets from U.S. Industries, announced that it had licensed the Farberware name to another company.
Syratech officials said they would work with the 700 workers in the Bronx to keep the plant open, but many workers fear that the plant is doomed because they can no longer make cookware sold under the well-known Farberware name.
The Empire State Development Corporation and the New York City Economic Development Corporation said yesterday that Syratech had agreed to operate the plant another three months, despite its decision to license the Farberware name to another company. State and city officials said that under an old contract, the plant is scheduled to close today.
In what would be an unusual legal maneuver for breach of contract, state and city officials said they would seek a temporary restraining order to keep the plant open if U.S. Industries did not join Syratech in agreeing to operate the plant for three months. In 1981, according to the officials, the state, which owns the factory, agreed to lease it to U.S. Industries at an extremely low rent, and the company promised to continue manufacturing there until 2006.
A spokeswoman for U.S. Industries, Diana Burton, said that "we haven't closed the door" to keeping the plant open for three months, "but we need some help from the city, state or Syratech in order to run the plant." She insisted that U.S. Industries had worked with the city and state to help the plant survive.
The head of the city's economic agency, Charles Millard, said government officials were having promising talks with retailers and distributors that might contract for cookware from the plant.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCUT (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3469 METAL STAMPINGS, NEC (94%); SIC3421 CUTLERY (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FARBERWARE; US INDUSTRIES; SYRATECH CORP LIFETIME BRANDS INC (94%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: FARBERWARE; US INDUSTRIES; SYRATECH CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BREACH OF CONTRACT (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (64%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



136 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Jittery Over Jobs Report

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks closed sharply lower yesterday on worries that today's employment report could lead the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates to ward off inflation.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 49.94 points, much of it in the last hour, closing at 5,606.96. In the broader market, declining issues led advances, 1,617 to 776, on the New York Stock Exchange on moderate volume of 360 million shares. 
 "It's a waiting game," Edgar Peters, chief investment strategist at Panagora Asset Management, said. "The signs are the economy is stronger than we expected, which means earnings will be good, but the Fed could tighten."
Analysts said the market feared the jobs report would show that the economy spawned a large number of jobs and that the data might prod the Fed to raise interest rates at the Sept. 24 meeting of its policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee.
Wall Street will focus on average hourly earnings, which jumped by 9 cents in June -- the largest gain since the Government's record-keeping began 31 years ago. The Fed has kept interest rates unchanged since January, when it cut them a quarter of a percentage point. Economists are predicting a gain of 244,000 nonfarm jobs in August, compared with a rise of 193,000 in July.
Analysts said the market might have gotten a taste of what to expect in today's jobs report for August as the Labor Department reported that new applications for unemployment benefits fell by an unexpectedly sharp 15,000 last week, ending four straight weeks of rises.
The jobless claims for the week ended last Saturday fell to 316,000 from 331,000 the week before. They had been expected at about 335,000.
The nervousness over a possible Fed move has also hurt the bond market, and that, in turn, has hurt stocks. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond was off 20/32 , pushing its yield up to 7.15 percent, from 7.10 percent at Wednesday's close.
"The last few days have shown stocks can't make upward progress when the long bond yield is over 7 percent," said UBS Securities' chief investment strategist, Gail Dudack.
Financial stocks bore the brunt of the interest-rate fueled selloff. J. P. Morgan fell 1 5/8, to 87, and BankAmerica lost 1 1/8, to 77 1/8.
Comments by two Fed officials sharpened the market's focus on today's report, though they did little to signal the Fed's policy.
Speaking in Houston, the president of the Dallas Fed, Robert McTeer, said the economy was "running hot," although he also noted that indicators he watched showed little threat of inflation.
Later, Janet Yellen, a Fed governor, said she expected demand growth to moderate to a more sustainable pace the rest of 1996 and into 1997. Ms. Yellen balanced that by saying that it was too soon to tell whether wage pressures presented too much of an upside risk.
Meanwhile, stocks picked up a vote of confidence from Fidelity Investments' Magellan fund, the nation's largest mutual fund, which increased its stock holdings and reduced its holdings in bonds and cash.
American depository receipts for shares in Russian companies fell on news that President Boris N. Yeltsin had agreed to undergo heart surgery. Templeton Russia Fund, the only closed-end fund on the Big Board that invests exclusively in Russian companies, fell 3/4, to 20 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (50%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); 

PERSON: JANET YELLEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



137 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: New Applicants For Jobs Down

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
New applications for unemployment benefits fell by an unexpectedly sharp 15,000 last week, the Labor Department said today, ending four consecutive weeks of rises.
"Most of us were expecting something flat, so this was a surprise," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany. "It hints that tomorrow's employment numbers will be strong." The Government issues its August jobs report on Friday. 
 New filings for jobless benefits fell to 316,000 in the week that ended last Saturday from 331,000 in the week earlier, the department said. Wall Street economists had forecast initial claims at 335,000.
The four-week moving average, which levels out the often-volatile weekly figures, totaled 323,500, up 500 from the previous week's 323,000. The average is considered a more accurate measurement of employment trends.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FIRST ALBANY (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) FIRST ALBANY (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (88%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: HUGH JOHNSON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



138 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: THE IRAQIS;
Baghdad Saw Kurd Raid As a Sure-Fire Gamble

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Sept. 5

 BODY:
For President Saddam Hussein, the benefits of his assault into the Kurdish area of northern Iraq have far outweighed the military and economic costs, diplomats from Middle Eastern countries and Iraqi opposition figures said today.
When a bitter split among Kurdish groups led one faction to ask for his support, Mr. Hussein took a calculated risk, seizing the chance to reassert Iraq's power in the area, which the West had declared off-limits after the 1991 Persian Gulf war. So far at least, his gamble has paid off: the punishments inflicted by the United States have amounted to little more than annoyances of a kind he has weathered so often. 
 The Iraqi leader's main goal is to cement his grip on power while reasserting it throughout Iraq, the diplomats and opposition leaders said, and the retaliation meted out by Washington did little to offset that objective.
The Clinton Administration says it devastated Iraq's southern air defense systems with its barrage of missiles, and it has expanded the area of the skies barred to Iraqi aircraft. Washington says this will help prevent any possible attacks on Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
But regional analysts said Mr. Hussein has shown little inclination for another foreign adventure and relies little on his air power. Instead his focus is on maintaining a vigorous ground force of 30,000 to 40,000 Republican Guards and 2,000 to 3,000 tanks to crush the slightest attempt at internal dissent.
The oil-for-food program that was to allow Iraq to sell $2 billion of its oil every six months in order to buy food and medicine has been put on hold. But Mr. Hussein has always viewed the United Nations plan as an insult to Iraqi sovereignty, and he dragged out negotiations on the plan for 16 months despite the evident needs of the Iraqi people. He has survived nearly six years of sanctions.
And while the public in the Middle East rarely sings Mr. Hussein's praises as the "sword of the Arabs" anymore, Mr. Hussein seems to be fully aware that military strikes like those launched by President Clinton this week only help foment deeper anti-American attitudes throughout the region.
"He proved that his army can do something once again after four or five years when all maneuvers were just posturing," said Kanan Makiya, an Iraqi dissident leader living in Boston.
"An opportunity was handed to him on a platter and he took it and ran with it," Mr. Makiya said. "It got him dramatic influence over an area of the north, which was supposed to be under Western protection, and which was supposed to be one of the great accomplishments of the gulf war."
In fact, opposition leaders said, along with dispatching his tanks to aid one Kurdish faction, Mr. Hussein used the opportunity to strike at Iraqi political opponents that operated in the north, and to remind everyone that one day he plans to be back in full control of the area.
In tandem with the armored columns, members of Mr. Hussein's secret police fanned out throughout the Kurdish region, blowing up the television and radio station of the main Iraqi opposition group, the Iraqi National Congress, as well as desktop publishing offices that produced leaflets to be smuggled into Baghdad. He also executed scores of opponents caught off guard in what they thought was a safe haven, opposition leaders said. Such reports could not be independently confirmed.
While assigning motives to a closed regime like Mr. Hussein's is a difficult task, analysts also believe the Iraqi Government might have thought it had some leeway because it was striking at a force now supported by Iran, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. The West supported Iraq in its eight-year war against Iran, which began in 1980.
The Kurdish Democratic Party said it allied itself with Baghdad to counter strong Iranian support for its rival, the Patriotic Union, in the Kurdish dispute. Iraqi exiles said that Agha Mohammadi, the envoy to the Kurds from the office of the Iranian leader, Ayatollah Ali Khameini, had recently been cheered by crowds of 40,000 to 50,000 people in Kurdish areas controlled by the Patriotic Union.
The exiles said Iranian activity in the north resembled the Iranians' penetration of southern Lebanon, where they built clinics and delivered medicine, slowly building grass-roots support. That support is impossible to gauge independently, and American officials have played down the extent of Iranian influence on the Patriotic Union.
But there can be no doubt that Mr. Hussein's own position has solidified this year. His son-in-law, Hussein Kamel, whose defection to Jordan in 1995 had been hailed as a sign that the Iraqi leader's inner circle was crumbling, returned to Baghdad to beg forgiveness and was summarily executed. Mr. Hussein also reportedly purged the army in June after foiling a reported coup plot, executing or transferring hundreds of officers. His confidence was evident in his increasing belligerance toward United Nations weapons inspectors charged with dismantling weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
Iraqi exiles said visiting foreign delegations are always treated to lavish banquets by Mr. Hussein to underscore the point that six years of sanctions has been little more than an inconvenience to the Iraqi elite. While the average Iraqi may be scrambling for food, those Mr. Hussein needs to hold onto power are not.
"I don't know if you saw the Republican Guards he used around Erbil, but they didn't look too thin to me," said Latif Rashid, vice president of the Iraqi National Congress, the umbrella opposition group.
Iraqi opposition figures also believe that recent international changes probably played a role in prompting Mr. Hussein to act.
First and foremost, the new Prime Minister in Turkey, Necmettin Erbakan, has long been a critic of the West's attitude toward Baghdad. As leader of the Islamic Welfare Policy, then an opposition party in Turkey, he visited the Iraqi leader during the buildup to the gulf war. After the war, he said the goal of the allies had been the destruction of a strong Islamic country rather than to protect Kuwait.
In addition, France, Russia and China, once important trading partners with Baghdad, have indicated that the strict economic sanctions against Iraq should be reviewed. "He got the feeling that he was returning to the international community," Mr. Rashid said, referring to Mr. Hussein.
In the region itself, every time the United States strikes against Iraq it reinforces the feeling among many Arabs that the suffering of the Iraqi people, and by extension of Arabs in general, is of no concern to Washington. Diplomats point out that American allies in the region like Egypt and Jordan criticized the most recent American action, while Saudi Arabia maintained an embarrassed silence.
"Sure the Americans make their enemy suffer, but their friends suffer too because countries like Saudi Arabia have a great stake in all this," said Ibrahim Izziddin, a former Jordanian cabinet minister and Ambassador to Washington, pointing to the June bombing of an American base in Saudi Arabia that killed 19 people. "Because of its serious internal problems, Saudi Arabia can't have such a high-profile relationship."
Ultimately, Iraqi opposition figures said, it was time for the United States to devise a new policy toward Iraq because the reliance on sanctions interspersed with occasional punitive air attacks only strengthened Mr. Hussein's position while hurting most Iraqis.
"He has not changed his message, he has not changed his line of thinking since 1991," said one Iraqi exile, speaking of Mr. Hussein.
"He still thinks the 'mother of all battles' was a historical fight that he won, that he is defying the West. He still has grandiose plans. He is only about 58 years old. What are they going to do? Keep up the sanctions for the next 20 years until he dies?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KURDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); AIR FORCES (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); MACFARQUHAR, NEIL SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



139 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Drop in Auto Sales Hints at Weak 2d Half
Auto sales fell 2.3 percent in August, compared with a year earlier. Auto-industry executives and analysts said the numbers were a sign that sales for the second half of the year could be significantly off the unexpectedly brisk pace set in the spring and early summer.
Ford said its sales were down 6.3 percent from their strong performance a year earlier. That was in line with earlier reports of weak sales by some other auto makers. [Page D6.]
 
National Semiconductor's Troubles
After a surge in sales often credited to Gilbert F. Amelio, its former chief, National Semiconductor has seen its fortunes -- and its stock -- plunge. In the chip industry's cyclical downturn, National fared worse than other companies. Still, after the latest bad news, a weak earnings report, many analysts are betting that the company has bottomed out. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Markets Drop on Rate Fears
Fear that a strong employment report could lead the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates sent stocks skidding. The Dow industrials lost 49.94, closing at 5,606.96. [D7.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities fell, sending the yield on the 30-year bond up to 7.15 percent, from 7.10 percent on Wednesday. [D13.]
 
Support for Clinton on Economy
Americans are giving President Clinton credit for a turnaround in the economy, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll. In the highest rating the President has received for his economic stewardship, 55 percent of those surveyed approved of the way he was handling the economy. [A1.]
 
Mixed Signs in Germany
The German economy grew more strongly than expected in the second quarter, but unemployment rose in August, suggesting that the recovery was not yet robust enough to create jobs. [D6.]
 
Lufthansa Orders McDonnell Jets
McDonnell Douglas said it had won an order worth as much as $1.3 billion from Lufthansa for its MD-11 aircraft. [D2.]
 
Viacom Stock Buyback Planned
Viacom, whose stock has slumped since the acquisitions of Paramount and Blockbuster, announced a buyback to try to increase the share price. The company -- along with its chairman, Sumner M. Redstone, and a company he controls -- plans to buy back up to $500 million in stock. [D2.]
 
Sharper Image
Seeks New Image
The Sharper Image, whose sales have slowed as its image has dulled, has turned to an advertising campaign by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners to give itself a makeover. One of the ads in the campaign, which attempts to use humor to change consumers' attitudes about the marketer of gizmos and gadgets, compares a $350 razor to a bullet train. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D2.]
 
Why an Internet Service Closed
Pressure from the Church of Scientology was at least partly responsible for the recent shutdown of a well-known Internet messaging service, according to the operator of the service. The service had been used by hundreds of thousands of people to send and receive messages anonymously. [D2.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,606 down 49.94
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.15% up 0.05
The Dollar -- 109.13 yen up 0.37
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows nonfarm payrolls from Feb. to July. Expected for August: 120.0 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (53%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (57%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (53%); VIACOM INC (52%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (51%); TSIC INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); BONDS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); SUMNER REDSTONE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



140 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ECONOMY;
Public Still Worries, but Less, About Economy

 BODY:
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll showed that feelings of economic insecurity among the American public had ebbed somewhat since a benchmark poll The Times conducted last December for a series of articles, "The Downsizing of America."
But the new poll also found that considerable economic anxiety continued. 
 For instance, 40 percent of Americans in the new poll said it was unlikely that "today's youth will have a better life than their parents" in standard of living. That level of pessimism is down from the 49 percent who expressed that view last December.
Similarly 28 percent of respondents described themselves as "economically insecure," compared with the 37 percent who described themselves that way in December.
Likewise, 27 percent said getting a good job at good wages was "very hard" in their community, down from the 36 percent who reported feeling that way in December.
As a further indicator of economic anxiety, 41 percent said that when it comes to good jobs for American workers, "America's best years are behind us." That gloomy outlook has ebbed from 49 percent last December.
The reduction in these and similar indicators of anxiety ranged from 8 to 11 percentage points between the two polls.
Although that is a significant shift, it leaves a substantial fraction of Americans with continuing economic worries.
Feelings of economic insecurity were detected at all income levels. While 42 percent of people with annual incomes under $15,000 said good jobs at good wages were "very hard" to get in their community, 20 percent of those with incomes over $50,000 said the same.
And in some cases anxiety even increased with income. While 34 percent of people with incomes under $15,000 said it was unlikely that today's youth would have a better standard of livingthan their parents, 43 percent of those with incomes over $50,000 expressed that same expectation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



141 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1927 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
Majority Give Clinton Credit On the Economy, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

 BODY:
The American public, feeling better about the economy than at any other time in the last eight years, now gives President Clinton credit for a turnabout, leaving Bob Dole's appeals to voters' economic anxieties without much potency, according to the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll.
In the highest rating Mr. Clinton has ever received on his economic stewardship, 55 percent of Americans approve of the way he is handling the economy. By 6 to 1, those approving say they will support him in November. 
 One longtime complaint of the Administration is that despite the strengthening of economic numbers during Mr. Clinton's Presidency, he has never drawn much credit for them. Indeed, for most of his tenure the percentage of Americans favoring his handling of the economy has been only in the 30's or 40's. Now that has changed: the latest number is a jump from the 46 percent found only two weeks ago.
An accompanying sign of reassurance for the President is that 7 of 10 people say the economy is very good or fairly good, the largest proportion since 1988. By 2 to 1, Americans who rate the economy that way say they will back Mr. Clinton over Mr. Dole.
In addition, the survey found that the public's economic insecurity had ebbed somewhat since a poll by The Times last December that charted attitudes about downsizing and job loss. Still, the latest survey found considerable levels of anxiety persisting, with nearly 3 of 10 Americans describing themselves as economically insecure. [Page B11.]
The findings of this poll, taken Monday evening through Wednesday evening among 1,281 adults around the country, are of particular significance because they are one of the first measures of the White House race in the post-Labor Day period. The survey, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, reflects how people's attitudes may have settled now that Mr. Clinton, Mr. Dole and Ross Perot have framed their campaigns at their nominating conventions, and as more voters begin to pay attention to the race.
Although he may still be benefiting to some extent from a convention afterglow, the political strength that the poll found in Mr. Clinton is striking. At the same time, Mr. Dole's efforts to stake his campaign largely on responding to voters' economic anxieties, with a proposal to slash taxes by 15 percent, do not seem to be doing him much good.
Buoyed by approval of his performance on the economy, Mr. Clinton's lead over Mr. Dole, which diminished by about half immediately after the Republican convention, is firmly back in double digits. Fifty percent of registered voters back him, with 35 percent favoring Mr. Dole and 5 percent Mr. Perot. Among the probable electorate this November, Mr. Clinton's lead is only one point narrower.
In the modern era of political polling, no Presidential candidate with a double-digit advantage around Labor Day has lost the election, although Hubert H. Humphrey, in 1968, and Gerald R. Ford, in 1976, verged on upsetting the front-runners.
Trying to put a favorable light on the results of this and other surveys made public this week, Nelson Warfield, Mr. Dole's press secretary, said the President's ratings were as high as they would get. "He is on the road to becoming the incredibly shrinking front-runner," Mr. Warfield said. "He has been to the mountaintop, and now he is heading to the valley."
Mr. Clinton's pollsters, Doug Schoen and Mark Penn, did not return telephone calls seeking their evaluation of the poll.
In a barometer of Americans' perceptions not only of the economy but of broader national life as well, 44 percent of those surveyed said things in the country were generally going in the "right direction," while a statistically indistinguishable 47 percent said things had gone off on the "wrong track." The "right direction" reading was the highest of Mr. Clinton's tenure.
For now, at least, Mr. Dole has been unable to capitalize on "wrong track" respondents as well as Mr. Clinton has capitalized on "right direction" respondents. Of those who said things were moving in the right direction, 77 percent said they would vote for Mr. Clinton, and 12 percent for Mr. Dole. Of those who were worried about the wrong track, only 57 percent said they would support Mr. Dole, with 25 percent for Mr. Clinton.
The American missile attacks on Iraq have only helped Mr. Clinton politically; his overall foreign policy approval rating is 53 percent, up slightly from his rating in the last Times/CBS Poll, in August.
And the highly publicized resignation of Dick Morris, the President's chief political strategist, after a tabloid report last week that he had had an affair with a call girl, appears to have had little effect. Eighty-six percent said the information they had heard about Mr. Morris had not influenced their opinion of Mr. Clinton; only 9 percent said it had made them think worse of him.
But it was the poll's findings on the economy, and Mr. Dole's inability to make it an issue, that were most notable.
While 28 percent said they felt economically insecure, fully 72 percent said they now felt economically secure. And a majority of even the insecure preferred Mr. Clinton.
Further, while 41 percent said that when it came to jobs, America's best days were behind it, people expressing that pessimism were no more likely to prefer Mr. Dole than Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Dole has had a hard time seizing on the fears of even the 19 percent who said they were very concerned that someone in their household would be out of work in the coming year. By more than 2 to 1, those people said they preferred Mr. Clinton.
One respondent who described herself as somewhat insecure economically was Claudia Lavin, a housewife from Jacksonville, N.C. She said she considered herself an independent but planned to vote for Mr. Clinton.
"Compared to two years ago, we're paying our bills without a problem, and we can buy more," Ms. Lavin, 30, said in a follow-up interview. "Clinton signing the minimum-wage increase will help a lot of people, especially single mothers."
But she added that she was worried about her family's future. "My husband is in the military," she said, "and because of budget cuts he may be out of a job in another year if he's not promoted."
Colleen Monahan, 45, of Orange, Calif., who said she had left her job as an engineering administrator to have a baby, described herself as somewhat insecure economically. But she too said she intended to support the President.
"I don't think the economy is flourishing, but we're not in a depression," Ms. Monahan said. "There are jobs. But the culture is changing. We can't depend on big corporations to take care of us anymore. We have to have an entrepreneurial spirit. Those who don't are hardest hit."
Mr. Clinton's impressive ratings on the economy have not carried over to a Democratic advantage in Congressional races. When asked which party they favored for their local House race, respondents picked Democrats over Republicans by only four percentage points, a statistically insignificant margin.
The one dimension that suggested some potential for Mr. Dole concerned long-range economic prospects. Forty percent said it was unlikely that the next generation of Americans would have as good a life economically as they, while 57 percent were optimistic about the next generation. The pessimists were about 13 points more likely to vote for Mr. Dole than were the optimists.
But people are more skeptical about Mr. Dole's proposal for a 15 percent tax cut than they were last month. If he is elected, 64 percent said, Mr. Dole will not be able to cut taxes that much; in the last poll, the figure was 51 percent.
Over all, Mr. Dole's image has improved since his party's national convenion, but it remains fairly negative. Twenty-nine percent of registered voters said they had a favorable impression of him, while 36 percent had an unfavorable impression. In contrast, 46 percent expressed a favorable view of Mr. Clinton, while 33 percent had an unfavorable view -- a standing that has remained fairly stable over the last few months.
Mr. Dole's biggest advantage over the President is still on the issue of character. Seventy-one percent said Mr. Dole shared the moral values that most Americans try to live by; only 58 percent said that of Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Perot's standing continues to be overwhelmingly negative. Only 11 percent of registered voters expressed a favorable opinion of him, while the view of 60 percent was unfavorable.
Vice President Al Gore appears to have been helped by his forceful speech at the Democratic convention: 43 percent of registered voters had a favorable opinion of him, up from 35 percent before the convention.
Jack Kemp, Mr. Dole's running mate, had a 33 percent favorable rating.
And despite her well-publicized speech at the convention, Hillary Rodham Clinton's favorable rating remained unchanged, at 38 percent.
Fifty-six percent of the public had a favorable view of the Democratic Party, slightly more than the 48 percent with a favorable view of the Republicans. And on some themes presented by the parties at their conventions, the Democrats seemed to have a similar edge: After the cavalcade of family-friendly speakers in Chicago and San Diego, 53 percent said the Democrats better understood the needs and problems of families, while 31 percent gave this nod to the Republicans.
And when asked which party had better ideas for leading the country into the 21st century, 47 percent said the Democrats, 39 percent the Republicans.
 
How the Poll Was Taken
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Monday through Wednesday with 1,281 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 978 said they were registered to vote.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 36,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, race, sex, age and education.
Some findings related to voting are reported in terms of an overall "probable electorate," which uses responses to questions dealing with voter registration, voting history and the likelihood of voting in 1996 as a measure of the probability of particular respondents' voting in November.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, the United States' attack on Iraq occurred during the polling and 740 of the 1,281 respondents were asked for their reaction to the attack. The margin of sampling error for that group is plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in question wording or the order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "The Economy and The Candidates" shows result of a poll conducted regarding the economy and the 1996 Presidential election. (pg. B11,Pg A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); US LABOR DAY (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB; MORRIS, DICK; BERKE, RICHARD L; PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



142 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE STAFF;
Dole Replaces 2 Aides to Sharpen Message

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Less than nine weeks before Election Day, the Dole campaign squeezed out two of its top strategists today in a shake-up that reflects the campaign's continuing struggle to project a winning message and image.
The departure of the two aides, Don Sipple and Mike Murphy, shows the extent of long-standing divisions within the campaign. And they come at a time when Bob Dole, the Republican Presidential nominee, appears stalled, well behind President Clinton in public opinion polls, and when the campaign must make crucial decisions about how to spend the approximately $40 million it plans to devote to television advertising. 
 The resignation of Mr. Sipple, who was himself a replacement for the campaign's previous chief strategist, also underscores how difficult it has been for the campaign to overcome some of Mr. Dole's fundamental disadvantages -- his age (73), his long career in Washington, his links to an unpopular Congress and House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, and the lopsided preference of female voters for Mr. Clinton.
At the same time, the campaign has found that Mr. Dole's strengths -- his perceived trustworthiness, integrity and character -- have not been presented to voters in a way that makes a difference.
"There is no defining image of Dole on television," said one Republican close to the campaign who has been critical of Mr. Sipple's advertisements but acknowledged fundamental flaws in the candidate. "It is very hard to convince people that Dole is someone other than the person they have been watching float around for the last three decades."
The campaign named three new media strategists today -- Alex Castellanos, Greg Stevens and Chris Mottola -- with the intention of creating advertising that will present Mr. Dole's tax-cutting plan in sharper relief and make more aggressive contrasts between the former Senator and the President.
The three new men, all of whom have reputations as hard-hitting strategists, have worked on a number of Congressional campaigns as well as Presidential primaries, although they have not worked together previously as a team.
Dole advisers said that Paul J. Manafort, a longtime Republican strategist who managed the party's national convention in San Diego last month for Mr. Dole, would be integrating the overall message between the paid advertising and the "free" media -- news articles in the press and television news broadcasts.
A top campaign official also said that next month the campaign would spend "more money on advertising than any campaign in Presidential history." While he would not disclose the monthly breakdown, he said the Dole campaign would spend about $40 million on advertising through Election Day on Nov. 5.
Still, the departure of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Sipple caused Republicans around the country, including Congressional candidates, to react with deep concern over the campaign's prospects, according to William Kristol, editor of The Weekly Standard, a conservative publication.
Mr. Kristol noted that Mr. Sipple and Mr. Murphy have had experience with "uphill, challenger races" -- Mr. Sipple with Gov. Pete Wilson of California, and Mr. Murphy with Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey and Gov. John Engler of Michigan.
To some degree, today's political fallout was the result of internal disorder, a sign that the campaign is more preoccupied with infighting than with a defining vision. "Now is the time to begin putting strategy together to win, not throwing knives at each other at the expense of the candidate," said one Republican close to the campaign.
As Republicans inside and outside the campaign described today's events, Mr. Sipple and Mr. Murphy, who were responsible for presenting Mr. Dole to the public, had set up a separate media entity outside the campaign from which they operated. When Scott Reed, the campaign manager, sought to merge that entity, known as New Century Media, within the campaign, Mr. Sipple and Mr. Murphy decided to quit.
Those close to the two media consultants said that they felt that their experience and their past positions in charge of successful campaigns entitled them to more control in the Dole operation. They also said the two were frustrated at the constant tug with Mr. Reed and others over such matters as the timing for announcing Mr. Dole's economic plan and the selection of Jack Kemp as Mr. Dole's running mate, preferring Governor Engler instead.
Mr. Reed wanted to pull Mr. Sipple and Mr. Murphy in under a campaign umbrella to consolidate control. With the two working outside, they were not always present at important meetings where decisions had to be made quickly.
"You'd be in a campaign strategy meeting and the people who were supposed to be translating the thoughts into advertising weren't there," said one campaign aide.
Some in the campaign simply did not like the advertisements that Mr. Sipple produced, saying they were neither memorable nor effective, and lacked a consistent theme.
"Don tried to run this like a state race and never tried to formulate a larger mandate, never came up with a strategy to win this thing," said one Dole adviser. "Where are the great ads? Where's the revolving door? Boston Harbor? The bear in the woods?" he asked, referring to notable advertisements from past Republican Presidential campaigns.
Still, one campaign official portrayed today's shake-up as a good sign. He said Mr. Dole's ratings had plunged in the polls during months of negative advertising from the Clinton campaign when he did not have the money to fight back. Now that Mr. Dole has a fresh infusion of cash from the Government, he said, it is important to spend it smartly.
"It's critical that our advertising be on message, that it meet the campaign's strategic goals and that it drive the Dole message and the anti-Clinton message," he said. "This was a decisive move by the campaign to get this fixed."
But this is the second time Mr. Dole has tried to fix this central aspect of his campaign. Mr. Sipple himself was a replacement for Bill Lacy, the campaign's deputy chairman and top strategist, and Bill McInturff, the pollster, who were dismissed in February after the campaign faltered at the start of the primaries.
Except for those departures, the campaign had been relatively free of the kind of shake-ups that marked Mr. Dole's previous campaigns.
But today's actions have made some longtime Dole watchers nervous about the implications.
"This kind of petty infighting really looks like a fight for deck chairs on the Titanic," complained one Republican with close ties to the campaign. "Anyone who had any vain hope of Dole pulling this out has to be disturbed and disappointed to see this kind of structural change so close to the election."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Murphy, another Dole strategist, left the campaign yesterday. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Don Sipple was squeezed out as a media consultant for Bob Dole. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; DOLE, BOB; SIPPLE, DON; MURPHY, MIKE BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



143 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A2-17
 
HEART SURGERY FOR YELTSIN
 
Ending months of silence about his health and shattering a Kremlin taboo, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia said he would have heart surgery later this month. A1
 
IRAQ PULLS BACK TROOPS
 
Saddam Hussein is withdrawing most, but not all, of his forces from the Kurdish enclaves in northern Iraq, but is leaving behind a cadre of spies and secret agents, American officials said. A1
 
WHAT IRAQ GAINED
 
News analysis: For Saddam Hussein, the benefits of his weekend assault far outweighed the military and economic costs, diplomats from the Middle East said. A16
 
NO CONDEMNATION FROM U.N.
 
After several days of intense back-room bargaining, the United Nations Security Council was unable to agree on a resolution condemning the Iraqi attack. A17
 
SOMBER SCENE AT KURDISH CITY
 
The city of Erbil, the center of the Iraqi assault, remained dark and somber, lacking electricity, water and the verve that once kept it lively deep into the night, residents who fled the city said. A16
 
CHALLENGE TO ISRAELI RIGHT
 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sternly warned his right-wing ministers that if they did not like his handshake with Yasir Arafat, they could leave his Government. A3
 
FACE-OFF OVER CUBA
 
A senior Cuban Government official and the leader of the most powerful anti-Castro Cuban exile group in the United States faced off in a rare debate. A12
 
Orvieto Journal: A visit to Tangentopoli, or Bribesville. A4
 
National A18-24, B10-12
 
CLINTON RATED HIGH ON ECONOMY
 
President Clinton has received his highest economic rating in a New York Times/CBS News Poll while Bob Dole's appeals to economic anxieties have so far failed. A1
 
President Clinton campaigned in Florida, which he lost in 1992. B10
 
Two top political strategists left the Dole campaign in a shake-up. B10
 
Bob Dole said the Bosnian peace accord had been a failure. B12
 
Jack Kemp and his wife earned nearly $1.9 million in 1995. B11
 
Dick Morris agreed to write a political memoir five months ago. B10
 
HURRICANE POUNDS CAROLINAS
 
Hurricane Fran tore into the Atlantic Coast near Cape Fear, N.C., with 115-mile-an-hour winds, killing one woman and causing heavy damage over a wide area. A1
 
PANEL FAULTS GULF-WAR INQUIRY
 
Investigators said Pentagon authority should be removed from the inquiry on the possible exposure of Americans to Iraqi chemical arms in the Persian Gulf war. A22
 
ADVANCE IN SICKLE-CELL RESEARCH
 
Laboratory tests have found a synthetic molecule to correct the gene mutation that causes sickle cell anemia, researchers say. A20
 
MORE BLACKS FINISH HIGH SCHOOL
 
Young blacks are for the first time completing high school at about the same rate as young whites, the Census Bureau reported. A18
 
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE BILL STALLED
 
The Senate postponed a vote on a bill to bar Federal recognition of same-sex marriages after disagreement over amendments. A24
 
California is big arena in the fight over same-sex marriages. A24
 
The distinction between comets and asteroids has blurred. A20
 
Metro Report B1-9
 
CONVICTIONS IN BOMB PLOT
 
Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, accused of being the mastermind of terrorist cells that plotted attacks on American targets at home and abroad, was convicted with two other defendants yesterday of trying to blow up American commercial airliners in East Asia early last year. A1
 
NO RELIEF FOR CROWDING
 
As New York City's 660 elementary schools reopened yesterday, Mayor Giuliani and Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said the overcrowding at many schools would affect tens of thousands of students and teachers for some time to come. A1
 
SLAYING SUSPECT A SUICIDE
 
The man whose arrest in the slaying of a police officer sparked a battle over the death penalty took his life yesterday, hanging himself with a belt from his jail cell bars, authorities said. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports B14-21
 
Baseball: Yankees looking forward to homestand. B16
 
Boxing: Roy Jones Jr. to defend title in New York. B20
 
College Football: Notre Dame defeats Vanderbilt, 14-7. B15
 
Columns: Vecsey on U.S. Open B15 On Hockey B18
 
Olympics: Strug vaults into life of fame. B21
 
Tennis: Sampras defeats Corretja in quarterfinals of U.S. Open. B15
 
Weekend C1-28, D21-22
 
Life beyond Avenue A. C1
 
Where history rests in peace. C1
 
Theater: "Old Wicked Songs." C1
 
On Stage, and Off C2
 
"Summer and Smoke." C5
 
Film: "Bogus." C8 Critic's Choice C14
 
"The Big Squeeze." C8
 
"Maborosi." C10
 
"Highway of Heartache." C14
 
"Kids of Survival." C16
 
"Bulletproof." C21
 
The CMJ Music Marathon. C16
 
Restaurants C24
 
Art: Photographing slums. C18
 
Books: McNamara and five lives. C27
 
Television: TV Weekend D21 
 
Obituaries B13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Mr. Netanyahu, meet Mr. Arafat.
 
Let Ross Perot debate.
 
Surrogate's Court primaries.
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: The talk of Teheran.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Saddam moves along.
 
Anthony Lewis: Hating the Government.
 
Richard Dooling: Unspeakable names.
 
Chronicle B12
 
Crossword C21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CUBA (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (52%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CUBA (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); HURRICANES (65%); WEATHER (65%); TROPICAL STORMS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); MARRIAGE (61%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); CENSUS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



144 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW;
Clear Goal in the 1890's Is Unclear by the 1990's

BYLINE: By SARAH BOXER 

 BODY:
A century ago, when Jacob Riis photographed the slums of New York, he knew what he was after: more space, more windows and better ventilation and sanitation for the poor. Today, after a hundred trends in urban renewal have come and gone, there is no longer a simple idea for improving poor neighborhoods.
But there is plenty of regret, regret for past, present and future. "The New American Ghetto," an exhibition of photographs of urban desolation and ruin by Camilo Jose Vergara at the Municipal Art Society, is sad about the lost past and grim about the empty present, and sometimes it is hard to tell the difference. Mr. Vergara's photographs are caught between nostalgia and outrage. Wasn't it romantic? Isn't it awful? For that reason, the exhibition is both depressing and frustrating. 
 There are, of course, flashes of beauty and signs of lively rebellion in his pictures, lovely ruins and places where nature is beginning to dispassionately digest parts of the old urban landscape. But the poorest areas are mostly ugly and treacherous, their features shaped not by any optimistic vision but by vandals and the fear of more vandals. The buildings are at once defended and defaced by razor wire and chain-link fencing.
By 1977, the year Mr. Vergara started documenting what he calls the hyperghettos, those "places where at least 40 percent of the population lives below the poverty level," many of the buildings were already being razed. And the dismantling, at least in his view, turned out to be worse than what was dismantled. Mr. Vergara is, as he openly admits in "The New American Ghetto" (Rutgers, 1995), the book that inspired the show, romantic about ruins. Born in Chile to great wealth, he grew up to watch it all vanish, leaving him "with an enduring feeling that things cannot last." But in American slums, he has found an odd focus for his nostalgia.
To preserve these places, Mr. Vergara took more than 9,000 photographs of New York, Chicago, Newark, Detroit, Camden, N.J., and Gary, Ind.; 140 of them are in the current show.
The most impressive and telling sequence lays out the evolution of 178th Street and Vyse Avenue in the South Bronx from June 1980 until October 1994. The first picture shows an old apartment building with a U-shaped central courtyard and its grand ornate stairway. There are children playing on the steps and, though not exactly beautiful, this old prewar brick apartment building doesn't look like such a bad place to live.
The next shot of the building, two years later, after fire destroyed part of it, is vastly different. The grand stairway is covered with graffiti, the windows on the first floor have been bricked up, the windows on the upper floors have been broken or covered with tin, and there are no signs of human life anywhere. In the next step of the building's evolution, a year later, the stairway is bricked up.
Given this dismal state, the next chapter is almost a relief -- the demolition of the building in 1986. What opens up behind it is another row of old apartments, less magisterial but evoking, strangely, an older kind of city, where the sky still had a prominent place. It is not a bad sight. What replaces it five years later is, however, startling. On the backs of flatbed trucks arrives a new kind of housing: cheap, light blue plastic and metal town houses. By 1994, each house has a tiny yard and space to park a car.
"Two Bronxes are visible in these photographs," Mr. Vergara observes in his book, "one that died too soon and one too flimsy to last." Although many residents prefer the shiny, flimsy city, Mr. Vergara is more concerned with the city that died too soon. And that is sometimes understandable, sometimes disturbing.
In certain cases, it's easy to understand the objects of Mr. Vergara's nostalgia: an airy train station in Gary, Ind.; a ruined castle in the middle of downtown Detroit; rows of Harlem town houses; the RKO Theater in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn and the J. R. Evans Leather Company factory with its brick smokestack in Camden, N.J. But in other cases, it is hard to mourn with him.
To see the skeleton of an old building finally swallowed up by the woods is not only sad, but also somehow fitting, in a dust-to-dust way. And to see apartments that have already been degraded beyond recognition finally dynamited to smithereens is not so much sad as satisfying. When the Scudder Homes in the Central Ward of Newark were destroyed in June 1987, Mr. Vergara remembers in his book, some people were stunned and angry, and others, as you can see from the picture of people partying in front of the dynamite cloud, were delighted.
One of the most tragic-looking pictures in the exhibition and one of the few featuring a human being is of a boy climbing the filthy, stained stairway in Columbus Homes in Newark in 1989. The child's shocked expression is that of someone facing a gunman rather than a camera. It looks as if he is cornered. This apartment was clearly no place for a human being to live, and it was demolished in 1994, Mr. Vergara says, to the sound of "crowds cheering." But he wasn't among them: he mourned the shabby couches inside and some family photos that the departing tenants had left.
At times, Mr. Vergara seems a little too enthralled with the tragedy of it all. He seems to have transferred the passion others reserve for people onto buildings, great and ugly. As long as they are in ruins, he honors them. Indeed, he treats them as if they were alive. Writing of the tangle of barbed wire, razor wire and chain link fences that encircle many buildings, Mr. Vergara laments that they have grown "claws." And he says that to seal off a building's windows is to take out its eyes.
Though he worries over them, the buildings have not all been blinded, deformed or destroyed. Many have evolved to survive, in curious ways. The oldest bank in Michigan is now a Domino's Pizza. The Lautner Humana piano factory in Newark was sold at auction for $500 and is now a homeless shelter. Countless movie theaters, stores and banks have survived by pulling off the most common adaptation of all: they have turned into churches. And where windows once were, new eyes have appeared: memorable, watchful graffiti eyes painted on doorways and trash cans.
Paradoxically, Mr. Vergara's loving personification of these buildings makes them seem hearty, ready to adapt come what may. Many of them have, after all, survived. But the same has not always been true for the people inside.

 "The New American Ghetto" remains at the Municipal Art Society, 457 Park Avenue, at 51st Street, through Sept. 25.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A photography review in Weekend yesterday about "The New American Ghetto" misstated the address of the Municipal Art Society, where the show is on view through Sept. 25. It is at 457 Madison Avenue, not Park Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two of Camilo Jose Vergara's photographs of 178th Street and Vyse Avenue in the South Bronx: in June 1980, left, and in October 1994. (Camilo Jose Vergara)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); VANDALISM (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POVERTY RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BOXER, SARAH; VERGARA, CAMILO JOSE CAMILO JOSE VERGARA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



145 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: THE OVERVIEW;
IRAQ PULLING OUT, BUT LEAVING SPIES BEHIND, U.S. SAYS

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5

 BODY:
Saddam Hussein is withdrawing most but not all of his forces from the Kurdish enclaves in northern Iraq that he invaded over the weekend, and is leaving behind a group of spies and secret agents to reassert his power in the region, American officials said today.
The Director of Central Intelligence, John M. Deutch, said most of the troops, tanks and armored carriers that the Iraqi President sent to the Kurdish city of Erbil were heading back to their bases. "For the time being," he said, "it looks like the Iraqi military has stood down." 
 Overall, for Mr. Hussein the political benefits of his attack in the Kurdish zone far outweigh the military and economic costs, diplomats in the region and Iraqi dissidents said. He has reasserted his power in the area and hit Iraqi opposition groups operating there, and the American military response and new flight restrictions may only bolster his political standing, analysts said. [News analysis, page A16.]
On Wednesday President Clinton said the United States had achieved its goals in the military campaign, which included two rounds of cruise missile strikes in an effort to force an Iraqi withdrawal from the Kurdish region.
The area has been under United Nations protection since the end of the Persian Gulf war, and has enjoyed a measure of freedom from Baghdad.
But today it became clear that under the cover of his assault on Erbil, the Iraqi leader had left behind "a massive security presence," said a State Department spokesman, Glyn Davies.
C.I.A. officials concurred. Though the size of this secret police force is unclear, officials said, it is big enough to intimidate those who oppose the Iraqi leadership.
"He did not simply vanish into the night in a benign fashion, leaving nothing behind," Mr. Davies said. "Saddam Hussein's footprint remains very much indelibly placed over that region of northern Iraq."
On Saturday Iraq sent at least 30,000 soldiers from its Republican Guard into Erbil, shelling and occupying the city. Witnesses said some soldiers went house to house, pulling people from their homes and executing them.
Mr. Hussein ordered his forces into Erbil after one of his oldest enemies, Massoud Barzani, chief of the separatist Kurdistan Democratic Party, asked the him for help in ousting the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan from the city. The Patriotic Union is backed by Iran.
Today the warring Kurdish parties fought one another south of the city as Iraqi troops stood by, United Nations officials reported.
In a statement from its Washington office, the Patriotic Union said Iraqi troops backed by tanks had attacked its Kurdish loyalists.
But United States officials said they saw no evidence of any Iraqi attack; one intelligence official said the statement appeared to be another piece of "agenda-shrouded misinformation that comes at us from all sides" of the Iraqi and Kurdish groups opposed to Mr. Hussein.
From his mountain redoubt near the Iraq town of Sulaimaniya, 80 miles south of Erbil, Jalal Talabani, the chief of the Patriotic Union, said he would gladly accept military aid from Iran and would never again make peace with Mr. Barzani.
"Barzani is an agent of Saddam Hussein," Mr. Talabani said in a report by Reuters. "So why should we talk to him? We will talk to his master if anything."
The United States has spent close to $1 billion since the end of the gulf war trying to preserve the Kurdish enclave. Its diplomats have spent years trying to get the two rival Kurdish leaders to show some semblance of unity against the Iraqi Government.
State Department officials said today that the idea of the two warring Kurdish leaders of northern Iraq ever settling their differences was now at best a faint, far-distant hope.
Some 22 million Kurds live in Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Syria, Armenia and Azerbaijan. They are the largest ethnic group in the world without a nation to call their own, and their history is a litany of broken promises, shifting alliances, backstabbing betrayals and violent oppression.
In Ankara, Turkish Government officials said Turkish troops would move into northern Iraq to prevent Kurdish rebels fleeing the fighting from entering Turkey. Hundreds of thousands of Iraqi Kurds walked north over the mountains into Turkey during the gulf war in 1991, creating a huge political and humanitarian problem for the Turks, who have constant battles with their own independence-seeking Kurdish rebels.
The State Department responded cautiously to Turkey's decision to create a buffer zone in northern Iraq, raising no objections on the understanding that the zone would be temporary and troops would not be stationed there.
Trying to indirectly address the question of whether the move would violate Iraq's sovereignity, Mr. Davies, the State Department spokesman, said Turkey's presence in northern Iraq was far different from Mr. Hussein's. He also said Turkey's fight against its own Kurdish rebels would not further destabilize northern Iraq.
Mr. Deutch delivered a generally optimistic picture of the military situation in northern Iraq after the two missile attacks by the United States on southern Iraq, which were intended to damage the country's air defenses.
United States intelligence agencies have satellites positioned above Iraq and electronic eavesdropping equipment at an air base in southern Turkey, all of which can record the movement of Iraqi armor and military transports with precision.
But the C.I.A. has few if any reliable independent sources of information on what is happening to people in the back alleys of Erbil and in the mountains and villages surrounding the city.
Mr. Deutch told the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence this morning that the intelligence agencies were reporting "the withdrawal of the mechanized and armored units from the Kurdish territories in northern Iraq back to their garrisons." He said the retreat was proceeding "fairly systematically," with "most of the units" returning to their bases.
And Iraq is respecting the limits of an expanded no-flight zone over the southern half of the nation, the intelligence director said. United States pilots patrolling the zone reported that they flew unchallenged by Iraqi fighter jets or air-defense units.
In Baghdad the Iraqi Government called on the United Nations to denounce this week's missile attacks by the United States, calling them "flagrant American aggression on Iraq." That call, like this week's military sparring, was yet another reminder that the United States and its allies "are going to have to deal in a political way with the future of Iraq and make sure that the people of Iraq get a democratic government," Mr. Deutch told the Senate intelligence panel.
The challenge to the United States, he said after a speech on terrorism at Georgetown University this afternoon, was to bring about "a change in the regime in Iraq that will not only preserve the integrity of the country, but will stop it from being an obvious threat to its neighbors."
But there are few original ideas on how to bring that change about. n
Mr. Deutch told a questioner who proposed killing Mr. Hussein to solve the problem that assassinating foreign leaders was contrary to American values -- and probably would be botched in any event.
 The headline of the article misattributed a report that Iraqi secret agents had been deployed in the northern zone. The principal source was Glyn Davies, a State Department spokesman, not John M. Deutch, the Director of Central Intelligence.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about military activities in Iraq misstated the origin of the ban on flights over a Kurdish-populated area of northern Iraq. It was imposed by the United States, Britain and France, claiming authority under a United Nations Security Council resolution condemning the repression of Kurds and others in Iraq. The United Nations did not create the zone and disputes the assertion that the Security Council resolution authorizes one.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A father, right, tending to his son in a Baghdad hospital on Wednesday. The Iraqi authorities say the young man, and others in the adjacent beds, were injured this week in American missile attacks on southern Iraq. Demonstrators in Baghdad, protesting American missile strikes against targets in southern Iraq, tried to push past the police yesterday in an effort to reach the offices of the United Nations World Food Program. (Photographs by Agence-France Presse)(pg. A16)
 
Map of Iraw showing location of Erbil. (pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (71%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (71%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (71%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (71%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; KURDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); DEUTCH, JOHN M (DIR); TALABANI, JALAL; BARZANI, MASSOUD; WEINER, TIM SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JALAL TALABANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996



146 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Hard Market Grows Harder for Musician Soloists

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a manager of instrumental solo artists, I think the market for musicians in this field is a lot gloomier than portrayed in your Sept. 2 account (Arts pages).
Many soloists of the caliber of Carter Brey, whom you profile in his new position as principal cellist with the New York Philharmonic, are rearranging their careers to take positions in our major orchestras out of economic necessity. 
 The demand for guest soloists of such abilities has fallen off sharply, especially in the current decade. University campuses, once the sites of classical concert series, rarely sponsor such events since the student uprisings of the 60's and 70's. Many symphony orchestras have fallen by the wayside, as well. Both the Sacramento Symphony and the San Diego Symphony Orchestra have filed for bankruptcy. Musical America International Directory of the Performing Arts lists about 150 cellists of soloist rank as available for concertizing in a field of perhaps a couple hundred solo engagements a year with orchestras for cellists in the United States and Canada.
Mr. Brey speaks of integrating solo and orchestral playing. But artists I have represented sometimes find that once they sign on with one orchestra, other major symphony orchestras are less likely to engage them as guest soloists for fear of offending their own first-rank instrumentalists. Even when such engagements are arranged, many find themselves canceling because of late scheduling conflicts in their parent orchestras.
Predictable income, you see, is the name of the game, not "teamwork."
 
MAXIM GERSHUNOFF
Hollywood, Fla., Sept. 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (74%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC SINGERS & MUSICIANS (94%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSIC (91%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); 

PERSON: GERSHUNOFF, MAXIM; BREY, CARTER CARTER BREY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



147 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Follows Stocks and Bonds Higher After August Job Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar moved higher yesterday, following stock and bond markets, after the August employment report showed strong gains without heightening worries about inflation.
While strong, the employment numbers were not as robust as some had come to expect. 
 "The market was very optimistic this would be a big payroll number and that the Fed would have to act," said David DeRosa, a director of foreign exchange trading at SBC Warburg Inc. "When it wasn't a signal, they began to cover their positions."
The bond and stock markets rallied in relief, after having feared that the jobs report would be so strong as to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates more sharply than expected. While the prospect of higher interest rates has hurt stocks and bonds, it has generally bolstered the dollar. Higher interest rates typically help the value of the dollar by making deposits denominated in it more attractive.
Robert Brusca, chief economist at Nikko Securities International Inc., was among those who thought the report by the Labor Department was strong enough to force the Fed to act now.
"You have to look at this as an authentically strong report, showing the economy is getting better," Mr. Brusca said. But reflecting the caution still in the market, he added the report "hasn't done enough to turn people into outright dollar bulls."
As bond prices weakened late in the day, the dollar came down from its highs against the Japanese yen and mark.
In late New York trading, the dollar stood at 1.4920 German marks, up from 1.4854 marks on Thursday. The dollar settled at 109.32 Japanese yen, up from 109.13 yen. The British pound slipped to $1.5605 from $1.5660.
The dollar also gained yesterday as investors sold off the mark in favor of other European currencies.
The dollar's move against the mark comes a day after a German Government report showed unemployment rose far more than expected in August. In addition, some investors were selling their pounds and Swiss francs and replacing them with dollars.
The British and Swiss currencies had been sought in recent days, with the pound hitting a 38-month trading-day high against the dollar on Thursday as President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia announced he needed heart surgery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); 

COMPANY: SBC WARBURG AUSTRALIA (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BRUSCA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



148 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Taking a Stand Against Disney And Its World

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
DISNEY'S blitz marches on, its beachheads surging into shopping strips, playgrounds and schools filled with kiddie troops wearing the uniforms of Pocahontas and Quasimodo. Some days you have to wonder if we'll all wind up taking orders from the Mouse.
Facing this onslaught, Jim Geist took his counteroffensive to Times Square recently, actually giving away copies of a just-finished Disney video. It wasn't a plot to flood the market with bootleg cartoons. His tape was live action, of interviews with the Haitian workers who sew the happy-faced T-shirts and pajamas and other items that contribute to the estimated $1 billion the company earns licensing its characters. 
 The Haitian workers, he said, earn 30 cents an hour. They live on credit. Their children go hungry. They make about $11 a week, less than the retail price of a Pocahontas shirt.
First the Gap. Then Kathie Lee Gifford. Et tu, Pluto?
The Disney Company is the latest target of a coalition of religious and labor groups that seeks to highlight the working conditions at the overseas factories that churn out lucrative clothing lines. Disney was chosen on purpose, they said, because of its high profile and jealously guarded corporate image of wholesome family entertainment. The coalition wants Disney to increase its hourly wage to 58 cents and allow monitoring of its overseas factories.
"Every group I've spoken to, their jaws hit the floor," said Mr. Geist, an assistant at an evangelical Christian church in Elmhurst, Queens. "They say, 'Please don't tell me Walt Disney is doing this.' "
THE company's response is contained in a one-page statement that says it requires all its overseas licensees to abide by its code of conduct, which stipulates that factories comply with local wage and workplace laws. It does not say how much the Haitian workers earn. A Disney spokeswoman said she would look into the matter. She did not call back.
The Rev. David Dyson isn't surprised by that. Fifteen years ago, he founded the National Labor Committee, the group that took on the Gap and Kathie Lee Gifford and produced the Haiti videotape. Now the pastor of Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, he belongs to People of Faith, a nationwide network whose members rally congregations into speaking out on social and economic issues.
"Companies don't like to get attention from churches," he said. "If it were just unions banging at them, they are somewhat impervious. But they don't like it when rabbis and priests unite and ask ethical and moral questions about their practices."
Mr. Dyson's congregation in Fort Greene is no stranger to this. In the 1850's, it was a center of Abolitionist ardor whose pulpit was graced by Frederick Douglass and Henry Ward Beecher. A large wooden table, rebuilt years ago, commands the center of the pastor's office. The Emancipation Proclamation was drafted on it.
Disney's minimal reaction, he said, echoed that of the Gap, which first tried to play down the criticism by holding up its corporate code of conduct like a shield before agreeing to modify its business practices. The problem, Mr. Dyson said, was that overseas manufacturers flout those codes. And while the companies say they abide by local laws, he said the minimum wage in the third world is often too low to allow workers to buy food and medicine. The question of a living wage becomes a moral issue that is a cornerstone of their public appeal.
INSTEAD of talking about the global economy and the shattered social contract, let's go after the Gap when we hear they're making clothes in El Salvador," he said. "It's impossible to talk about capital flight without talking about what's going on in Haiti."
Or without talking about what Disney is doing in New York, where it plans to stage a musical on the life of King David.
"He was a biblical figure of justice of enormous purpose," Mr. Dyson said. "For Disney to be making more money off the character of King David at a time when the working poor in Haiti are starving is a perversion of history and theology."
The Disneyfication of a classic Bible tale has emboldened Mr. Geist, who plans to continue his protests outside Disney's stores. He admits it is daunting, but he offers a parable for those who doubt they can change part of the global economy.
"The majority of people say it's so huge, what can you do about it?" he said. "I say, How do you eat an elephant? One bite at a time."
Dumbo, you're on notice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (92%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; SWEATSHOPS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (87%); ETHICS (86%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); SWEATSHOPS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (60%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID KATHIE LEE GIFFORD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



149 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Smarter Eaters

 BODY:
A long-running study of the nation's eating habits shows that Americans are consuming foods more wisely, but that less than 25 percent have a truly healthy diet.
The study, based largely on surveys by the Agriculture Department, examined eating habits in various social and economic groups over 30 years. One finding was that in 1965, only 4.7 percent of wealthier whites had healthy diets, compared with 9.3 percent of poorer whites and 16.4 percent of poorer blacks. Affluent whites ate a lot of costly, high-fat foods like red meat and whole milk, while poorer blacks ate cheaper but less fatty foods like sweet potatoes and greens. Poorer blacks still have healthier diets than any other group. 
 But wealthier whites have made more progress than any other group. By 1991, 20 percent of wealthier whites were eating a healthy diet, while the percentages for poorer whites and poorer blacks were 19.9 and 23.5. By 1991, Americans generally had significantly reduced their consumption of saturated fats and cholesterol and lowered their total fat intake from 40 to 35 percent of total calories.
More needs to be done. Federal food giveaways often include items like cheese and butter that may be high in fat and cholesterol. School lunches feature foods like burgers, pizzas and tacos. Americans are also relying more and more on convenience foods, including prepackaged goods and fast food, which means they exercise less control over their fat and cholesterol intake and consume fewer fruits, grains and vegetables.
More aggressive public education campaigns by health and nutrition groups could help bring along the 75 percent of Americans who are still not eating as wisely as they should.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; EDITORIALS; DIET AND NUTRITION NUTRITION (93%); OILS & FATS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHOLESTEROL (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CHEESE (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (77%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



150 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Economic Samba;
Financial Gyrations Fail to Deter Foreign Investors

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 6

 BODY:
It is among workers earning the barest of incomes that the benefits of the Real Plan, Brazil's two-year-old economic reform program, are most keenly felt.
Without the triple-digit inflation of the past, their salaries have a new-found value, measured in an explosion of sales in consumer appliances. Over the last three years, the number of households with color television sets has grown 21.4 percent. Households with freezers have increased more than 40 percent. 
 Along with the surge of sales to low-income consumers, who make up the vast majority of the Brazilian work force, has come a flood of investment from foreign companies. Propelled by the $2.4 billion privatization of Light, Rio de Janeiro state's electric utility, direct foreign investment through the end of July reached $4.96 billion, surpassing the combined total of the previous three years.
But despite the hard-won monetary stability, economists are warning there could be danger ahead. The achievements, they say, may well fall apart unless President Fernando Henrique Cardoso moves more quickly to revamp the traditionally statist economy and spur growth by easing the government demand on money.
"The Real Plan had the right start, but now it needs to correct the fiscal mix so it can lower interest rates, loosen monetary policy and get growth," said Sebastian Edwards, a former World Bank economist and author of "Crisis and Reform in Latin America: From Despair to Hope" (1995, Oxford University Press).
Still, investors' eagerness to establish a presence here seems undeterred. Interest in a series of coming privatizations, including Eletrobras, Telebras and Vale do Rio Doce, giants of the electric, telecommunications and mining sectors, is expected to be strong among foreign -- including American -- investors. The prospects are alluring: about 80 percent of all households still lack telephones, for instance.
"I think the majority of companies are going ahead and making investments right now," said John E. Mein, executive vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Sao Paulo. "Companies are coming in and positioning themselves so they're already in the market."
But economists both here and abroad are concerned by President Cardoso's slowness in tackling the structural changes that would ease the government demand on money. They want to see swifter progress in cutting the 1.5-million-employee civil service sector, reforming the social security system, and shutting down the corruption-ridden state banks, many of which, along with private banks, are in serious trouble.
The private banks have been bailed out with $13 billion, of which $4.6 billion has been paid back so far, at a pace somewhat ahead of schedule. A bailout package for the state-run banks is expected to cost the Government another $8 billion and will encourage, though not require, states to liquidate or privatize the troubled banks, which are frequently used as a political tool by governors and other local power brokers.
It has taken time for Mr. Cardoso, who was elected with the largest majority of any Brazilian president, to realize that despite his popularity he would have to deal with a Congress where traditions of financial and political horse-trading remain strong -- particularly since many of the changes he has wanted to make require changes to the Constitution. In addition, the economic changes appear to be taking a back seat to Mr. Cardoso's intention, announced late last year, to seek a constitutional amendment that would allow him to run for re-election.
"President Cardoso is trying to balance a political agenda where the bitter medicine is given out in small doses, but if you give antibiotics or any medicine in small doses it may not be effective," Mr. Edwards said. While the lapses of Brazil as it moves toward reform are common to other Latin countries, investor enthusiasm for the market here makes the fiscal problems less apparent, economists warn.
The administration's failure to tighten spending has led to shrinking growth, despite the investment boom. Unemployment in the Sao Paulo region recently hit 16 percent, and the economy is expected to grow only 2.6 percent this year, according to figures released by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics.
IBCA Ltd., Europe's largest credit rating agency, gave Brazil a B+ rating for the second consecutive year, reflecting monetary stability on the one hand and lack of fiscal discipline on the other. In particular, the company said, the ratio of Brazil's international reserves to outstanding government securities dropped to 40 percent from 65 percent over 18 months, undermining investor confidence and leaving the country vulnerable to a flight of currency.
In addition, IBCA noted, the Brazilian Constitution hampers fiscal responsibility with, for example, its guarantee of lifetime employment for civil servants, regardless of performance or government need.
"To anybody from outside, this is a fun country, but it's volatile," said Rudiger Dornbush, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "There is no question in the world that enthusiasm about Brazil is warranted. You just want to make sure you don't get caught in a trap."
Extreme measures are hardly unusual in Brazil's efforts to control the economy. The day after he became President in 1990, Fernando Collor de Mello froze prices, wages and all bank accounts over $1,000, foreign and domestic, in a Draconian effort to control inflation, then running at 50 percent a month. Economists initially greeted the move with enthusiasm, but views quickly soured as it became apparent that the step was not backed up by a solid plan to turn the economy around.
Professor Dornbush was among the first experts to sound fresh warnings, noting last June that Brazil was not taking the steps necessary to insure long-term growth and stability. With projections for growth shrinking since his initial pronouncement, Professor Dornbush said the failure to lighten the demands on the federal budget, and Brazil's roller-coaster economic history, ought to leave investors insecure -- wondering, for example, whether a cash crunch would lead to laws to block the repatriation of capital.
Instead, investors appear to be betting that the team running Brazil today -- considered by many the most competent in memory -- ultimately will not founder. Just this week, McDonald's announced plans to invest $500 million to open a new fast-food restaurant every five days through the end of the century, increasing its outlets in Brazil from 200 to 530.
Such successes mask the need for firmer policy steps by the President, said Alexandre Barros, a consultant to foreign investors here.
"I don't think the Government knows what it wants," Mr. Barros said. "They've only reached the fourth chapter. If the problems go beyond that, they're at a loss."
Right now, the lag in government action to trim spending has meant an expected operating deficit of 3.9 percent this year, a sharp downturn from the 1 percent surplus in 1994. Government demand for money has kept interest rates at 26 percent a year -- down by half from a year ago, but still prohibitive. Consumer borrowing rates can run a murderous 1,000 percent above inflation, and despite booming sales in sectors like appliances, consumer sales over all are declining.
In the Madureira Shopping Center outside Rio, Marcelo do Espirito Santo Ferreira, a 39-year-old telecommunications technician, considered buying a home computer he could use to supplement his income. In cash, its price was $2,000; paid for in 12 monthly installments, the cost rose to $3,700.
"The Government has to explain this to people," Mr. Ferreira said, adding that he planned to save the $2,000 to buy the computer in one lump sum.
In an interview in Brasilia, Pedro Malan, the Finance Minister, acknowledged that the Government needed to shrink its size and role, but complained that critics underestimated the importance of controlling inflation, which he called "the most unjust and cruel" tax, disproportionately striking the poor.
In addition, he agreed with critics who contend that Brazil has to move quickly to raise the education level of its work force if it is to compete in world markets in the long run. The average schooling of a Brazilian worker is four years, far behind Argentina's eight years and South Korea's 11, he noted.
"I don't think the Plan could blow up," Mr. Malan said. "It's a question of cost, time and speed."
This week, the House approved a bill to dismantle export taxes levied by states. The measure is meant to stimulate exports, while easing pressure to devalue the currency. But it will also increase the debt of the federal Government, which has pledged to make up the revenue loss to states for several years.
Investors are betting on the Plan's long-term success. Mr. Mein of the American Chamber of Commerce said that much of the foreign money coming in was being spent on construction materials and capital projects. The assumption is that domestic interest rates will fall to allow the economy to expand.
The Brazilian-owned Blockbuster Video franchise is in for the long haul. It opened its first store in March 1995, invested $25 million last year and plans to have 170 outlets by the end of the century. The surge in the sales of televisions and videocassette recorders, unexpected when the franchise opened, had proved a surprising and welcome boon, said Luis Mario Bilenky, president of Blockbuster Video in Brazil.
"Despite the economic difficulties Brazil is going through," he said, "you're still talking about an enormous country of 150 million people and a market with an incredible potential for growth."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lourdes Silva, whose factory job supports her and her two daughters, carries a new television set from a store in Rio de Janeiro. (Renzo Gostoli for The New York Times) (pg. 35); President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, right, and the president of the Abril Group, Roberto Civita, hold up a dish antenna earlier this summer to announce the start of a new satellite television service for Brazil. (Reuters) (pg. 37)
 
Graphs: "Brazil's Economy At a Glance" shows gross domestic product, inflation, trade deficit and government spending. (Sources: IBCA, Brazil Central Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELB3 (BOVESPA) (58%); ELET3 (BOVESPA) (56%); EBR (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (93%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: LIGHT (BRAZILIAN CO); ELETROBRAS (BRAZILIAN CO); TELEBRAS (CO); VALE DO RIO DOCE (BRAZILIAN CO) OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (66%); TELECOMUNICACOES BRASILEIRAS SA (TELEBRAS) (58%); CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS SA (ELETROBRAS) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIGHT (BRAZILIAN CO); ELETROBRAS (BRAZILIAN CO); TELEBRAS (CO); VALE DO RIO DOCE (BRAZILIAN CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (93%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRIVATIZATION; LABOR ; WAGES AND SALARIES; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTRIC APPLIANCES FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (54%); CORRUPTION (50%); MINES & MINING (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES) FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



151 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: M.M. Feldman, 81, New York City Manager

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Maurice Milton Feldman, one of the cadre of highly educated Depression-era recruits who ran New York City's municipal services with rare professional distinction for decades, died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 81 and had been an acting sanitation commissioner and a commissioner of water resources.
His daughter, Naomi Collins, said the cause was complications from an inflamed ulcer. 
 They called them the Depression virtuosos, and the name was as well chosen as the range of their talents. In one of those perverse proofs of the law of supply and demand, the Depression, so ruinous for the national economy, was a personnel bonanza for New York City government.
It was a grim index of the imbalance between the supply of labor and the demand for workers at the time that when the city advertised some openings for $840-a-year clerks in 1935, 14,000 applicants showed up to take the Civil Service exam.
And of the 3,000 who received qualifying grades, 2,000 were college graduates. One was a City College chemistry junior who had been blithely working his way through school by playing the bass violin when he concluded that his dream of using a college degree to rise above his Lower East Side tenement beginnings was a chimera.
"The unemployment rate for chemists with bachelor's degrees," Mr. Feldman recalled years later, "was about 95 percent."
Mr. Feldman, who spent most of his career with the Sanitation Department, rose steadily and rapidly through the ranks, thanks in part to his test-taking abilities. He calculated that he took 20 promotion tests between 1946 and 1950.
By then, the senior ranks of city agencies were thick with Depression-era recruits.
At the very time Mayor John V. Lindsay was upgrading the corps of city managers by hiring respected industry executives and retired military officers, the home-honed Mr. Feldman was holding down three high-level jobs: deputy sanitation commissioner in charge of engineering, deputy general manager in charge of water pollution control for the Department of Public Works and, for a heady six months in 1968, acting sanitation commissioner.
Mayor Lindsay, who gave Mr. Feldman the temporary additional assignment in December 1967, after the retired Navy man he had picked for the job fell ill, was so impressed with his quiet, unassuming efficiency, especially in the aftermath of a 19-day sanitation strike, that he tried to persuade him to accept the post permanently.
Mr. Feldman would have none of it. "I'm an engineer," he said. "They might as well make me Ambassador to China."
Mr. Lindsay relented. In June, he named Mr. Feldman Commissioner of the newly organized Department of Water Resources, a precursor of the Department of Environmental Protection. Mr. Feldman held the post until his retirement in 1971.
Besides his daughter, who lives in Bethesda, Md., Mr. Feldman is survived by a son, Eugene, of Granby, Conn.; a sister, Mae Reisman of Lakehurst, N.J., and four grandsons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); CITIES (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (75%); ENGINEERING (73%); WATER QUALITY (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); WATER POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: FELDMAN, MAURICE MILTON; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR MAURICE MILTON FELDMAN (95%); JOHN V LINDSAY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



152 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Can Unemployment Fall Further Without Setting Off Inflation?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
Beyond the clear political gain it represents for President Clinton, the decline in unemployment to its lowest level in seven years has focused added attention on an issue that increasingly dominates policy debates and financial markets: whether the economy has changed so fundamentally in recent years that it can accommodate a lower rate of unemployment, and the resulting wage increases, without reigniting inflation.
Over the last two years, as the unemployment rate edged below 6 percent and slid gradually down to its current level of 5.1 percent, economists have had to reassess one of their most widely accepted assumptions: that the natural rate of unemployment was a little more than 6 percent. Below that rate, the assumption held, labor markets would become so tight that wages would surge, sending prices upward. 
 As unemployment has fallen below that level, the Federal Reserve and the bond markets have strained mightily to detect the expected signs of inflation, and have so far found almost nothing. While wages have been creeping up, most companies have reported an inability to push through price increases to customers, keeping inflation quiescent.
The resulting economic mix -- low unemployment, low inflation, steady growth and signs that wages might be edging up after a long period of stagnation could not be more ideal for Mr. Clinton as he confronts a Republican nominee, Bob Dole, who has built his campaign on the argument that the nation is being shortchanged economically.
Indeed, the economic gods have smiled on Mr. Clinton since 1992, when it was George Bush's bad fortune to preside over an economy that came out of recession in a slow and faltering way. While unemployment generally drifted upward throughout Mr. Bush's Presidency, it has moved down during Mr. Clinton's term.
Whether Mr. Clinton deserves any credit for the economic record of the last three years and eight months is a matter of intense partisan debate, and Mr. Clinton could remain vulnerable to widespread if dissipating economic anxiety and resentment about stagnant wages and job insecurity. But Mr. Clinton is maintaining his big lead in the polls, and the unemployment report will make it that much harder for Mr. Dole to get a hearing for his argument that the nation needs to improve its long-run economic performance.
"It's not great news for Senator Dole," said Herbert Stein, who was chairman of President Nixon's Council of Economic Advisers. "On the other hand, the Republican position has been, yes, we've gotten unemployment down to low levels, but productivity and real wages are not growing rapidly enough."
Seeking to keep the focus on Mr. Dole's pledge to cut tax rates by 15 percent, his campaign argued that workers should be seeing more of the benefits of an improved economy.
"Today's unemployment figures, while good, cannot cover up the basic facts," said Christina Martin, a spokeswoman for Mr. Dole. "One needs to stop and ask, 'Why do American families need two incomes just to get by? Why do their paychecks get eaten up by taxes?' "
There were a few troubling statistics in today's employment report. The proportion of unemployed people who are considered to be among the long-term jobless -- those out of work for 15 weeks or more -- stood at 32.8 percent in August. While the percentage of long-term unemployed peaked in 1992 at more than 36 percent, the current figure is well above where it stood in March 1989, when unemployment was last below 5.1 percent. At that time, the proportion was 21.7 percent.
Still, to liberal economists, the current balance between employment and inflation is showing the inflation hawks at the Federal Reserve to be overly cautious about the economy's capacity to generate jobs and non-inflationary wage increases. They urged the Fed not to raise rates and choke off what they view as a long- overdue increase in pay for American workers. Average hourly earnings increased 6 cents in August, bringing the earnings increase over the last year to 3.6 percent, outstripping the 3 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index.
"If wages do begin picking up -- and there are scattered signs of it -- then in my opinion it would not be an early indicator of broad-based inflation," said Lawrence Chimerine, the chief economist at the Economic Strategy Institute, a liberal research organization in Washington.
"Pricing flexibility in the economy is as tight and difficult as it has been in the last several years," Mr. Chimerine said. "It's fierce out there. In industry after industry we're seeing price wars breaking out. If wages go up and companies can't raise prices, they will hope to offset it with improved productivity, or it's going to come out of profits. I think that we will eke out some small improvement in real wages, and that growth will be more evenly balanced between wages and profits than it has been."
But Mr. Chimerine acknowledged that his view was probably not shared by the Federal Reserve. Many economists expect the Fed to raise interest rates in coming weeks to insure that inflation will not take root, despite the Fed's aversion to taking action close to Presidential elections.
"The bottom line is that the economy is decelerating from its hair-raising speed of the second quarter, but not enough to prevent interest rates from rising," said Sung Won Sohn, the chief economist at the Norwest Corporation in Minneapolis. "There is a better than 50-50 chance that the Federal Reserve will pull the interest rate trigger" at its next meeting on Sept. 24, just six weeks before the election, he said.
Although the Fed has indicated that it is leaning toward raising rates if the economy does not show signs of cooling off, Fed officials over the last week have said they remain undecided whether they need to act, and if so, by how much they will need to raise rates.
Clinton Administration officials stuck today to their position that they do not comment on the Fed's monetary policy. But they said they saw no signs of inflation, and left little doubt that they would view any rate increase before the election as unjustified, even though it takes months before higher rates begin working to slow the economy.
They also argued that the Fed should continue to engage in what has amounted to an experiment in determining just how low unemployment can go before signs of inflation emerge. Despite its reputation for taking a hard line on inflation, the Fed, in the view of some analysts, has been remarkably restrained in allowing unemployment to go so low and economic growth to remain so strong without raising rates.
"In the presence of such strong stability in the economy, it should be possible at low cost to reverse any slight overheating," said Joseph E. Stiglitz, the chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Persepective on the Job Numbers" shows unemployment figures since 1986. (Sources: Haver Analytics) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BONDS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



153 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Say Storm's Damage Will Probably Top $1 Billion

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Hurricane Fran's damage to the Carolinas and neighboring states is likely to exceed $1 billion, insurance industry experts said yesterday, an estimate that puts the storm in the ranks of some other recent disasters, although not among the most severe.
Unlike such killer hurricanes as Andrew, which ravaged South Florida in 1992, and Hugo, which tore through the Carolinas in 1989, this storm brought destruction that was widely scattered. Tens of thousands of homes and businesses were peppered with damage, but relatively few were destroyed. 
 "We're going to have more claims than in some of the other storms, but the dollar value of each claim is going to be lower," said John Millen, a spokesman for Nationwide Insurance Enterprise, the largest insurer of homes, businesses and automobiles in North Carolina.
"Where you had total losses of homes just completely blown out in Hurricanes Andrew and Hugo, we're not seeing that situation now," he said. "With Fran, we're finding lots of damage from fallen trees, broken windows, tiles off roofs and siding torn loose, not total destruction."
Steven Goldstein, the chief spokesman for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, said initial estimates showed $625 million in damage from high winds, and he added that "when flood damage is counted, the figure will probably go over $1 billion."
In the aftermath of the storm, hundreds of insurance claims adjusters were surveying the wreckage, and several big insurance companies set up emergency field offices. Perhaps the biggest was being run by State Farm Insurance in a hastily rented warehouse on the western edge of Durham, N.C.
Early yesterday morning, as the skies were clearing, eight tractor-trailers filled with office equipment and supplies began unloading at the warehouse, which is roughly two football fields long and about 250 feet wide. As the first of several hundred claims adjusters began arriving there from offices across the country, they were assigned pagers, cellular telephones, flashlights, rental cars, and red and white jerseys bearing the State Farm logo.
Sean Mooney, an economist at the Insurance Information Institute, said the estimate of $625 million in wind damages would probably rise. That estimate was initially calculated mainly from damage to coastal areas, he said, and by late yesterday some of the most severe damage was being discovered farther inland.
Mr. Goldstein said that homeowner policies did not cover flood damage and that only a small portion of the region's residents appeared to have bought flood insurance. In previous disasters, he said, people have turned to government for special loans and grants to rebuild property lost to flooding. President Clinton has already declared all of North Carolina a disaster area, paving the way for Federal assistance.
The losses from the storm are not expected to rival the damages of $15.5 billion from Hurricane Andrew or even those of $4.2 billion from Hurricane Hugo. But, Mr. Goldstein said, they may well approach the costs of $1.6 billion inflicted by Hurricane Iniki in Hawaii in 1992.
"The damage is very widespread," said Tom Roberts, a State Farm supervisor working out of the warehouse in Durham. "So it's a little difficult to get a handle on right away. That's why we're putting so many people into the field. They tried to get down to Wilmington today, but the state police had the highway shut down because of flooding."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (82%); NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (58%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; SOUTH CAROLINA; VIRGINIA; WEST VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE FRAN; INSURANCE HURRICANES (92%); INSURANCE (92%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); FLOOD INSURANCE (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (79%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



154 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: RAID ON IRAQ: IN TURKEY;
For Ankara, a Chance To Hit Kurdish Rebels

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, Sept. 6

 BODY:
The latest conflict in Iraq has burdened neighboring Turkey with new economic and political problems, but it has also given the Turkish Army a chance to strike out once again at Kurds in northern Iraq who have been fighting for more than a decade to build an independent homeland in Turkey.
Turkish planes continued their bombing attacks today on camps inside Iraq that are used by the Kurdish faction, the Kurdistan Workers Party. This is only the latest of several Turkish incursions into northern Iraq to fight the Kurds during a 12-year conflict. 
 In an effort to stop guerrilla infiltration of Turkey, senior Turkish leaders have said that they may soon declare a strip of Iraqi land along the border as a "security zone." Turkish soldiers would threaten to shoot anyone who enters the zone.
The Turkish Foreign Minister, Tansu Ciller, said the zone would be "a fence strip right next to our borders" and "a security area which will deter penetration."
Today Iraq warned Turkey not to go through with its plan. According to Baghdad newspapers, Foreign Minister Saleed al-Sahaf said creating such a zone would constitute "totally unjustified conduct and a violation of Iraq's sovereignty."
Evidently uncertain how to proceed in this highly volatile situation, Turkish leaders spent Friday in a series of top-level meetings. Foreign Minister Ciller announced that she was canceling a planned trip to Germany next week in order to deal with the crisis. Pressed for details on her Government's plans, she would say only, "The necessary will be done when necessary."
Mrs. Ciller's apparent uncertainty reflected the complexity of the new situation in which Turkey now finds itself.
Traditionally a close ally of the United States, Turkey has suffered huge economic losses as a result of the United Nations embargo imposed on Iraq. It recently managed to win adoption of a United Nations resolution allowing it to reopen the 616-mile oil pipeline between the two countries, and has spent several million dollars repairing the pipeline. But with northern Iraq now suddenly in turmoil, it is uncertain when the oil will again begin to flow.
Traders in southeast Turkey have called a protest demonstration for this weekend to demand that the United Nations end its embargo on Iraq.
"It is evident that the embargo did not yield any benefit apart from making the oppressed people of Iraq and millions of people living in eastern and southeastern Turkey miserable," the chamber of commerce in the southern city of Gaziantep said in a statement.
In cities like Gaziantep, where the economy was intertwined with cross-border trade with Iraq, the embargo, imposed after the Persian Gulf war, has led to a serious economic depression. The resulting financial problems and unemployment have led to widespread resentment among Kurds, who form the large majority of the population there, leading some to sympathize with the rebel Kurdistan Workers Party.
That, in turn, has intensified the war in the Turkey's southeast, with both sides burning villages they suspect of aiding the enemy.
"Given conditions out there, the Turks are naturally deeply disappointed that the oil deal will not go forward," said a Western diplomat in Ankara. "In that sense, the recent trouble in Iraq has been very frustrating for then."
The Iraq crisis has also reminded Washington and the world that Turkey, which is now governed by an Islamic-led coalition, can no longer be relied upon to line up faithfully behind the United States in every situation. Evidently fearing a negative response, the Clinton Administration did not even ask Turkey for permission to use the Turkish-American base at Incirlik in its raids against Iraq. Instead, at least one bomber was sent from Guam, half the world away.
Turkey's new Prime Minister, Necmettin Erbakan, of the Islamic Welfare Party, who had visions of an alliance of Islamic countries, has been sobered by what he has seen in recent weeks. When two other rival Kurdish factions that operate in a protected enclave in northern Iraq needed help, one turned to Iran for help and the other sought out Iraq.
When Iraq responded with military force to help the Kurdistan Democratic Party seize control of Erbil in northern Iraq last weekend, the United States responded this week with two cruise-missile attacks aimed at Iraq's southern defense centers.
The latest fighting in northern Iraq suggests that the kind of alliance Mr. Erbakan dreamed of is highly unlikely in the foreseeable future, and that he will have to moderate his regional ambitions. His hope to bring Iran and Iraq together in an "Islamic common market" and an "Islamic NATO," which from the outset seemed improbable, now seems out of the question.
Mr. Erbakan's dream of working with Iraq, Iran and Syria to end or at least ease the various Kurdish conflicts in the region now also seems at a dead end. The outbreaks of fighting between Kurdish factions in Iraq seem likely to continue, and the war between Turkey and the insurgent Kurdistan Workers Party seems destined to heat up.
Five years ago the United States and its allies created the enclave in northern Iraq to protect two lightly-armed Kurdish factions, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Kurdistan Democratic Party, from Saddam Hussein's forces. Soon afterward, the Kurdistan Workers Party began building camps there. Compared with the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Kurdistan Democratic Party, the Kurdistan Workers Party is a potent and well-equipped army. Its guerrillas move freely throughout the enclave, with the local factions unable to control them even if they wanted to.
With Turkey threatening more attacks, the Kurdistan Workers Party leader, Abdullah Ocalan, said he was ready to resist.
"The fascist Turkish colonialists have decided to invade southern Kurdistan," Mr. Ocalan told a pro-Kurdish news agency in Germany, referring to northern Iraq. "They could invade at any moment. All our freedom fighters must be on the highest state of alert for the sacred war."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: TURKEY (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: KURDISTAN WORKERS PARTY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: KURDISTAN WORKERS PARTY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; TURKEY; TURKEY (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); GULF STATES (78%); ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; KURDS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ARMIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); TRENDS (67%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN TANSU CILLER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



155 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Heating Oil Prices Show Gains On a Strong Demand in Europe

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Heating-oil prices rose sharply on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday on signs that strong European demand is threatening to curb imports at a time when American supplies are extremely tight.
On other commodity markets, soybeans rose, while gold prices fell. T 
 The heating-oil supply remains well below levels a year ago, causing rising concern even though the winter heating season is months away.
Many refineries will soon curtail production for at least two weeks to perform routine maintenance, which could lead to an even greater shortage, said Gerald E. Samuels at ARB Oil Inc. in Los Angeles.
"The bottom line is there hasn't been the replenishment of stocks in heating oil from last season's lows," Mr. Samuels said. "To come into the winter at these low stock levels is not a source of panic yet, but there are a lot of traders saying if it's tight now, then what will happen if there's an early winter surge?"
The sharp gains came amid a rally in gasoil futures in London. Gasoil is the European equivalent of heating oil, and demand for that product was heavy ahead of the expiration of one of its contracts. European gasoil stockpiles are 3 percent below last year's, according to the International Energy Agency.
Heating oil for October delivery surged 1.37 cents, to 66.40 cents a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest price since Nov. 15, 1991. October crude oil rose 41 cents, to $23.85 a barrel.
Soybean prices advanced on the Chicago Board of Trade amid concern about persistent dryness in Indiana and Ohio.
Maturing soybean crops in Indiana, Ohio and some parts of Illinois have had less than a quarter-inch of rain since August and hopes of some relief from Hurricane Fran are beginning to fizzle.
November soybeans rose 4.25 cents, to $8 a bushel, the highest active-contract price since July 15.
Gold futures retreated for the eighth consecutive session amid mounting indications that interest rates would rise in the United States.
December gold fell 80 cents, to $388.80 an ounce, on the Comex divison of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (85%); INDIANA, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); OHIO, USA (85%); INDIANA, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: HEATING FUEL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING HEATING OIL MARKETS (93%); HEATING OIL PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); HEATING OIL (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); SOYBEAN FARMING (72%); HURRICANES (67%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: GERALD E SAMUELS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



156 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Jobless Rate at 7-Year Low, As Hourly Earnings Rise
The nation's unemployment rate fell to a seven-year low of 5.1 percent, down three-tenths of a point, last month, and hourly earnings made their second sizable increase in three months. Also, employers hired 250,000 more workers in August, on top of a 228,000 gain in July.
President Clinton hailed the figures as showing that the economy "is on the right track." Indeed, they were not powerful enough to upset securities markets. [Page 1.]
 
Dow Industrials Surge 52.90
Stocks climbed, as the jobs data eased investor fears that the numbers would be so strong that the Fed would push up interest rates to head off inflation, at the same time threatening corporate profits. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 52.90 points, to 5,659.86, and gains outpaced declines by 1,652 to 705. [38.]
 
Liggett Seeks to Avoid Litigation
The Liggett Group, which infuriated tobacco industry rivals in March by agreeing to settle lawsuits that involved all the companies, is negotiating to avoid being dragged back into the litigation, lawyers involved in the talks say. Liggett has already paid $1 million in damages to five states that sued the industry. [38.]
 
SmithKline to Settle Charges
SmithKline Beecham P.L.C. expects to pay the Government about $300 million this year to settle Federal Medicare fraud charges involving billings for blood tests. Analysts said the Laboratory Corporation of America also expected to settle such charges. [37.]
 
Hurricane Damage Put at $1 Billion
Hurricane Fran's damage to the Carolinas and neighboring states is likely to exceed $1 billion, insurance industry experts said, as hundreds of claims adjusters surveyed the widespread wreckage and wrote checks for repairs. [9.]
 
Accord to End McDonnell Strike
McDonnell Douglas and its machinists union agreed tentatively to end a three-month old strike by 6,700 aerospace workers in St. Louis. Job security was at issue. [11.]
 
Ted Turner's Paltry Millions
Ted Turner, the chairman of Turner Broadcasting System, will receive a much lower pay package than the $100 million that had been expected after Time Warner Inc. acquires his company, a proxy statement shows. As vice chairman of Time Warner, Mr. Turner is to receive $23 million in salary and bonus and 2.2 million options over five years. [47.]
 
Summit Dismisses Its Chief
Summit Technology, which makes laser systems to correct common vision disorders, dismissed David Muller, its founder and chief executive, amid rising losses, a Federal inquiry and a plunging stock price. [36.]
 
Canal Plus in $1.6 Billion Deal
Canal Plus S.A. of France said that it would acquire Nethold B.V. of the Netherlands in a $1.6 billion deal that would cement its position as Europe's biggest pay-TV operator. [37.]
 
Sumitomo in Big Aircraft Purchase
Sumitomo Trust and Banking announced plans to buy 52 passenger aircraft for $4.2 billion from Boeing and Airbus Industrie. The purchase for its leasing operations will be made through two related companies. [37.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,659.86 Up 52.90
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.10% Down 0.05
The Dollar -- 109.32 yen Up 0.19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (81%); AN (PAR) (80%); GSK (NYSE) (67%); GSK (LSE) (67%); BIOC (EGX) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (81%); CANAL+ SA (80%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (67%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (52%); SUMITOMO MITSUI TRUST BANK LTD (50%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (85%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); HURRICANES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INSURANCE (73%); DAMAGES (72%); BONUS PAY (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); MEDICARE (70%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); LASERS (67%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); LAWYERS (65%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (63%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (60%); MEDICARE FRAUD (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



157 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton Urges a Jobs Role on Churches

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 6

 BODY:
President Clinton today called on churches to lead the way in hiring welfare recipients, saying, "We cannot create a Government jobs program big enough to solve this whole thing."
Mr. Clinton issued his challenge at the 116th annual session of the National Baptist Convention USA, the largest black church group in the nation, where thousands greeted him with repeated ovations and shouts of "Four more years." 
 It was the second time Mr. Clinton had appeared as President before the group, which represents 33,000 churches and more than 8 million congregants across the country. A Baptist himself, Mr. Clinton deftly mixed biblical references and campaign themes until he had his audience chanting with him, much as it had with a preacher who had preceded him on the stage.
"The Scripture commands us in Nehemiah to rise up and build and strengthen our hands for the good work," Mr. Clinton said. "Today, I ask your help in building that bridge to the 21st century I have been talking about all across America."
Mr. Clinton's appearance here began the second day of a two-day swing through Florida, a trip that has demonstrated the benefits of having a double-digit lead in the polls two months before the election. No Democratic Presidential candidate has carried Florida since Jimmy Carter won the White House in 1976, and Democrats have generally written the state off after Labor Day.
Mr. Clinton was not only working such core constituency groups in the state as blacks and retirees, he was also venturing into such traditionally Republican areas as Panama City in the Panhandle, promoting his record on the economy, education and health care.
The Baptist Convention was clearly Clinton territory. Its president, Henry J. Lyons, praised the President for his stands on education, health care and the economy, saying, "When you've got a man in the White House who has those kinds of sensitivities you've got to stay right there and put him in."
To thunderous applause, Dr. Lyons also called for a larger black vote turnout than in the 1994 elections, when the Republicans won control of Congress: "Two years ago we let something happen that never should have happened. We had the numbers on the books, but we did not go to the polls. We can never let that happen again."
The President re-emphasized that message, asking his supporters not to be lulled into complacency by his high poll numbers.
"We know that the only poll that counts is the one they take on Nov. 5th," Mr. Clinton said. "I ask you to remember that and help others remember it as well."
Mr. Clinton has been under fire by some in the liberal wing of his party for his decision last month to sign a law that reverses six decades of social policy and eliminates the Federal guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children. The law gives states vast new power to run their own welfare programs with lump sums of Federal money. It also sets a lifetime limit of five years of benefits to any family and requires most adult recipients to work within two years.
The President, who had campaigned in 1992 on a pledge to "end welfare as we know it," was unapologetic today about the law, but said that "to make that morally defensible and practically possible, there has to be work for those people to do."
He noted that the law allows states to choose to use welfare money as subsidies to businesses and organizations that employ those who had been on the welfare rolls.
"Just think about it," he said. "If every church in America hired one person off welfare, if every church in America could get some work to do that, it would set an example that would require the business community to follow, that would require charitable and other nonprofit organizations to follow. We cannot create a Government jobs program big enough to solve this whole thing, but if everybody did it, one by one, we could do this job."
Mr. Clinton went on, as he does in virtually every campaign stop to every audience, to speak of the racial and ethnic diversity of the country and make a plea for tolerance.
"If we fall into the trap that is strangling country after country and think the only way we can amount to something, the only way we can be somebody, is to find somebody else to look down on, we're in for big trouble," he said. "So I say to you, no people in this country have suffered more or longer than African-Americans from discrimination, but you know you will never and can never become what you wish to be by returning that in kind."
As the President prepared to leave for his next stop at a community college, a female saxophonist in a white dress sent him off with a rendition of "Amazing Grace" and a hug.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (84%); NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (84%); NATIONAL BAPTIST CONVENTION USA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); BLACKS RELIGION (94%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); US LABOR DAY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



158 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
C.I.A. UNDERMINED IN IRAQ
 
Saddam Hussein's assault on the Kurdish zone in northern Iraq has undermined a covert C.I.A. operation aimed at overthrowing the Iraqi leader, U.S. officials said. 1
 
IRAQ DISSIDENTS VOW BROADCASTS
 
Contradicting reports that their operations had been destroyed, Iraqi dissidents said they expected to resume broadcasts calling for the overthrow of Saddam Hussein. 6
 
Turkey has a chance to strike again at rebel Kurds in Iraq. 6
 
INDIA COUNTS ON VOTE FOR PEACE
 
The Governor of Jammu and Kashmir is preparing for what he believes will be a decisive step toward ending the Pakistani-backed Muslim insurgency. 3
 
CHECHEN REBELS TRY TO RULE
 
The Chechen rebels who fought the Russians to a standstill have begun to assert themselves as a budding government in Chechnya. 1
 
AFRICAN CONSTITUTION REJECTED
 
South Africa's highest court rejected the country's new Constitution, saying that it failed to meet the criteria for a peaceful transition from an apartheid government to a non-racial democracy. 7
 
U.S. calls for a charter to govern NATO's relations with Russia. 4
 
The Patriarch of Moscow chose not to meet the Pope in Hungary. 4
 
Condom Journal: A French town comes to terms with its name. 4
 
National 8-12
 
JOBLESS RATE FALLS TO 5.1%
 
The nation's unemployment rate fell to a seven-year low of 5.1 percent in August, the Labor Department said in a report that heartened both the Clinton Administration and the financial markets. 1
 
A DEADLY STORM
 
Hurricane Fran killed 17 people in the Southeast, but was erratic in the physical damage it caused, as some areas were virtually untouched. 1
 
KEMP VISITS HARLEM
 
Jack Kemp made a rare Republican campaign visit to Harlem, considered by many to be the symbolic center of black political power. 1
 
PREACHING TO THE CHOIR
 
When President Clinton spoke to the National Baptist Convention U.S.A., the crowd roared in approval. 1
 
TURNING TO THE CHURCHES
 
The President called on churches to set an example by hiring people moving from welfare to work. 10
 
MOVE AGAINST KEVORKIAN
 
The police in Southfield, Mich., burst in on Dr. Jack Kevorkian as he was videotaping an interview with a woman who said she wanted to commit suicide. 8
 
IT'S NOT JUST TELEVISION
 
Law-enforcement officers are asking the Fox television network to keep "America's Most Wanted" on the air to help them track down criminals. 8
 
SPOTLIGHT ON CALIFORNIA LEADER
 
Gov. Pete Wilson of California, undeterred by setbacks, is forging ahead with new initiatives. 8
 
SENATE CONTEST IN MONTANA
 
The Senate race in Montana is focusing on the use of contributions from political action committees and on commercials paid for by national party organizations. 11
 
SEEKING ANSWERS ABOUT FILES
 
Dick Morris, the former Clinton adviser, may be questioned about F.B.I. files at the White House. 11
 
GAY-RIGHTS VOTE PLANNED
 
The Senate agreed to vote on a bill that would ban job discrimination against homosexuals. 12
 
REVIEW TO FOLLOW CRASH
 
An accident involving a helicopter accompanying President Clinton's campaign prompted a White House order for a safety check on all aircraft involved in the travel of top Federal officials. 12
 
Beliefs: When religion newswriters gather, they talk politics. 12
 
Metro Report 23-27
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 15-19,22
 
In France, a felon's debut. 15
 
Music: Nine Inch Nails. 15
 
Brazil Festival. 19
 
Neurotic Outsiders. 19
 
Jacky Terrasson. 19
 
Dance: Mixed Ability festival. 16
 
Television: "Early Learning." 22
 
Sports 28-33
 
Baseball: Orioles' Murray hits 500th career home run. 29
 
Yankees top Blue Jays, 4-3. 29
 
Braves defeat Mets, 8-7. 31
 
Boxing: Seldon plots strategy for Tyson bout. 32
 
Column: Rhoden on U.S. Open 29
 
Football: Notre Dame won't tolerate fumbles. 32
 
Tennis: Seles is in Open final. 29
 
Obituaries 13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 20-21
 
Editorials
 
Measures for aviation security.
 
Undermining new democracies.
 
Civil Court choices.
 
Smarter eaters.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Well, it creates jobs.
 
John Cronin: The cost of electricity per species.
 
Phebe Marr: Striking Iraq isn't the end of it.
 
Barbara Nevins Taylor: Trapped on Rikers Island.
 
Sunil Garg: Under my skin.
 
Bridge 19
 
Crossword 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICS (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); HURRICANES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (62%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (62%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



159 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: What Lies Beyond the Finish Line?

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 6

 BODY:
Given that he is a lame duck, a badly trounced Presidential candidate and, as an abortion rights backer, a sometimes divisive misfit within the Republican Party, Gov. Pete Wilson should be easing into the political sunset, by most reckonings.
He is not. 
 Instead, with little more than two years left in his second term in Sacramento -- his final one, by statute -- Mr. Wilson is all over the landscape, acting like a politician who has plenty of gas left, wherever the road may lead, whatever others may think, however high his negatives in the polls.
At the Republican National Convention in San Diego last month, which he had once hoped would be a crowning moment for him, he managed to salvage some bold headlines, some prime broadcast time and, yes, plenty of opprobrium by forcing the abortion rights issue to the surface, thereby stirring up the only real fight of what was otherwise an almost soporific gathering.
No sooner was he back in Sacramento than he grabbed the national limelight again, announcing that he would eagerly sign into law the only bill ever passed by any legislature in the nation to call for "chemical castration" of repeat child molesters. Then he kept the light focused on himself by becoming the nation's first governor to use provisions of the new Federal welfare law as grounds for an executive order eliminating a wide range of state services to illegal immigrants.
Next, lest anyone still failed to get the message that Pete Wilson considered himself alive and well politically, he served notice that he would campaign unrelentingly this fall to elect Republican majorities in both houses of the State Legislature. (Only the Assembly is currently in Republican hands.)
And then, he went on, over the next two years he will pressure the Legislature to complete his "unfinished" agenda: more money for schools, less red tape for business and more policies and programs to discourage unwanted pregnancies and the "social pathology" of welfare and crime that often follow.
Further, he said, he will mount a high-profile effort this fall to win passage of a ballot initiative that would essentially do away with the state's affirmative action programs, a hot-button issue that both Bill Clinton and Bob Dole have tiptoed around while in the state.
Is this a man preoccupied with leaving his mark on the state's history, or is he already ankle deep in the next Presidential campaign, or what?
"Who knows?" the 63-year-old Governor replied enigmatically the other day in a wide-ranging interview about his political past, present and future.
All he knows for certain, he said, is that after 30 years as an elective officeholder from the nation's biggest state, he has no intention of abandoning a public-oriented career that has taken him from back-bench State Assemblyman to Mayor of San Diego, then United States Senator and now Governor.
Mr. Wilson, once a practicing lawyer, brushed aside speculation that he might make a living by serving on corporate boards or joining a big law firm, and also dismissed talk of a Cabinet job in a Dole administration. As a last resort, he said, he would rather keep his hand in the public affairs game by writing or speaking -- much as Ronald Reagan did when he left the governorship -- perhaps as a newspaper columnist or a broadcast personality.
"I'm not through yet," he said. "But I have no idea, frankly, what the future holds. I want to continue to contribute. For the moment, short term, I want to finish the agenda I set for California when I first became Governor in 1991, and then, long term, we'll see what happens."
Would he perhaps run again for the Presidency?
He pondered a moment, then slid off the question, recalling sardonically that a chronically hoarse voice badly hobbled his first run, in the 1996 campaign. "My recommendation," he said, "is that you not do it if you can't speak for three and a half months."
But many of his political friends and enemies, as well as many political analysts, believe that Mr. Wilson has another run for the Presidency in mind, probably in 2000, provided that in the intervening years he can keep his political profile high and his political fences mended.
"Never forget that when he pulled out of the '96 race, he said he was definitely interested in coming back one day," said Dan Schnur, one of the Governor's top aides in the short-lived 1996 campaign, who is now a political science professor at the University of California at Berkeley.
Still, there is considerable doubt that the goal will be any more attainable in 2000 than it was on the first attempt, when the Governor was among the first forced from the contest, mainly for lack of support both in the polls and at the bank.
His negative ratings in the polls continue to be unusually high: two of three California voters rate his job performance poor or only fair. And although he has shifted markedly to the right in recent years with his stands on immigration and affirmative action -- he was a moderate early in his career -- he remains something of an ideological apostate to the conservatives who control his party, because of his unyielding stance in favor of a right to abortion.
"He lost a lot a ground in that first Presidential run, especially in California, where to begin with people wanted him to stay and govern the state, not run around the country," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the Claremont Center for Politics and Economics. "Now he's got to rebuild his base and try to get his agenda passed, which I'm sure is important to him both for how history might view him and also should he ever run for office again.
"None of it's easy as a lame-duck Governor and as a pro-choice guy, though of course he still has some veto clout to wield in Sacramento and maybe, if he's lucky, his party might rethink its anti-abortion stance someday."
In an early taste of how Mr. Wilson's low poll numbers and lame-duck status will complicate his efforts to govern from here on out, officials in San Francisco, always a liberal thorn to the Governor, served notice this week that they would ignore his edict on eliminating services to illegal immigrants, saying they would continue such programs by using the city's own cash reserves.
If not the Presidency in 2000, might Mr. Wilson run again for the Senate, in 1998, say, or 2000?
Again, he did not reply head on. Or perhaps he did.
"What I really enjoy most," he said, "is the chief executive role. You not only get to pick the personnel to implement policy but you really have a remarkable ability to influence policy, far more so than in the legislative role."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Will Gov. Pete Wilson of California, badly beaten in the 1996 Presidential campaign, try it again four years from now? Or maybe try to return to the Senate? He responds with two little words: "Who knows?" (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ABORTION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); CHILD ABUSE (68%); HISTORY (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (51%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; WILSON, PETE (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



160 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: JOBLESS RATE FELL TO 5.1% IN AUGUST, LOWEST IN 7 YEARS

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6

 BODY:
The nation's unemployment rate fell to a seven-year low of 5.1 percent in August and hourly earnings posted their second healthy increase in three months, the Labor Department reported today.
The job-market data, which offered the first broad view of the nation's economic performance last month, were strong enough to inspire the Clinton Administration to further boasting about its economic record. But they were not so powerful as to immediately worry securities markets that have become increasingly nervous that the pace of growth is too fast. 
 Indeed, the bond and stock markets rallied even though many analysts were now even more convinced that the Federal Reserve might have to raise interest rates soon to slow the economy and keep inflation under control. Rates eased across the board while the Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 53 points to close at 5,659.86. [Page 35.]
President Clinton, on the campaign trail in Florida, hailed the figures as showing that the economy was "on the right track."
In a radio interview in Chicago, the Republican candidate, Bob Dole, said: "People are working, but many are working because they have to work to pay the Federal taxes. We have very slow growth."
And other Republicans insisted that the economy could be doing better. "President Clinton is still presiding over the slowest economic expansion in more than 100 years," Senator Connie Mack, a Florida Republican who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said.
The Labor Department report showed that the economy continued to plow ahead at a steady pace and had pushed joblessness down to a level not seen on a regular basis since the early 1970's. Employers added 250,000 workers to their payrolls in August, on top of a 228,000 gain in July. And average earnings, which have been stagnant or falling for most of the 1990's, have finally begun to outpace the rise in prices.
"It's great news for working Americans," Robert B. Reich, the Labor Secretary, said. "Finally, they're beginning to get a raise."
Various private economists, though, viewed the sharp jump in wages in recent months as a possible sign of an economy that may be racing ahead too fast for its own good, arguing that higher inflation could be on the way unless the Federal Reserve taps on the brakes.
"It's pretty clear that wage inflation is rising," said James F. O'Sullivan, an economist at Morgan Guaranty Trust. He said he considered it "extremely likely" that the Federal Reserve would decide to raise short-term rates later this month.
Wall Street tends to be of two minds about tighter monetary policy, disliking the higher interest rates it immediately brings but comforted by a central bank seen as intent on staying ahead of the inflation curve.
Today's report, seemingly tailor-made for political exploitation by the Democrats, featured a three-tenths of a point decline in the unemployment rate, to 5.1 percent, the lowest since March 1989. And 467,000 people left the jobless ranks, pushing the total below 7 million for the first time since July 1990.
Like some others of today's buoyant figures, however, the strength was magnified by some statistical quirks, particularly involving the heavy seasonal churning related to summer jobs.
The Government's survey, based always on the week that includes the 12th of the month, captured more of August than usual this year, and therefore counted a very high number of students leaving jobs, the labor force or both. As a result jobs, as gauged by the survey of households, grew by a moderate 171,000 while the labor force contracted by 296,000.
But Katharine G. Abraham, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, also cited a sharp decline in adult joblessness to argue that a significant portion of the overall drop pointed to a broad improvement unrelated to the timing of the survey.
The rate for adult men tumbled five-tenths of a point, to 4.2 percent, while the rate for adult women fell three-tenths of a point, to 4.6 percent.
The teen-age rate, meanwhile, rose eight-tenths of a point for all-teen-agers and 4.5 points for black teen-agers, the report showed.
Geographically, all four regions enjoyed lower jobless rates last month. Unemployment in the Northeast improved the most -- to 5.1 percent from 5.6 percent -- to make the region's rate as good as the national average for the first time since January.
The Midwest's jobless rate eased four-tenths of a point, to 4.4 percent; the South's three-tenths of a point, to 4.9 percent, and the West's two-tenths of a point, to 6.3 percent.
The jobless rate for blacks stayed steady at 10.5 percent, while the rate for Hispanic people dipped to 8.7 percent from 9 percent in July. The rate for whites was 4.4 percent, down from 4.7 percent.
The department's survey of employer payrolls, normally the main focus of economists and traders, was also muddied this time by other factors that exaggerated job growth. Nearly one-third of the 250,000 increase in payroll employment was accounted for by teachers and other local government workers. Ms. Abraham called the agency's seasonal adjustment process "problematic" at this time of year because its estimates are highly sensitive to the timing of school openings and changing educational schedules in general.
For the private sector alone, the 173,000 August gain fell short of the 215,000 average posted in the first seven months of the year as factory jobs recovered only their auto-related July loss and growth in services was a bit less than normal for the second consecutive month.
Health services, a powerhouse through May, added a paltry 9,000 jobs last month and retail trade added 21,000 after several months of bigger gains. Finance, insurance and real estate added 20,000 jobs for the second consecutive month.
The jump in average hourly earnings was 6 cents an hour, to $11.87, a hefty increase but magnified, analysts said, by the return of high-paid auto workers after vacation shutdowns. This followed a 2-cent decline in July and a 10-cent surge in June.
Richard B. Berner, senior economist at the Mellon Bank, predicted that the Federal Reserve, growing increasingly concerned by what he called a "gentle uptrend" in wages, "is likely to take its first step toward a tighter monetary policy" within the next few weeks.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in August" lists employment and unemployment statistics for August. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); CONNIE MACK (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



161 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996
(New Jersey)

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Uneasiness in Camden

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: CAMDEN

 BODY:
The restructuring of the Campbell Soup Company will have little direct effect on Camden since only 35 of the employees who work at company headquarters live in the city, Camden's top economic development official said yesterday. But the company's announcement that it would lay off 175 of its 1,700 Camden-based employees could have grave symbolic import in a city with an unemployment rate higher than 16 percent, said Thomas A. Roberts, executive director of the Camden Redevelopment Agency. "It does not send a real positive signal to other businesses that we might try to attract," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (91%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO CAMPBELL SOUP CO (91%); CAMDEN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPBELL SOUP CO CAMDEN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); EXECUTIVES (86%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY THOMAS A ROBERTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



162 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A Father Says, 'I Wasn't There'

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Child welfare officials are still trying to figure out how 4-year-old Nadine Lockwood was starved to death as city agencies and other organizations stood by. But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has said that the hard questions being asked of caseworkers should first be put to Nadine's family. He asks, "What did the father know, and when did he know it?"
Trying to answer that question, Nadine's father, Leroy Dickerson, recently sat for an interview and spoke about his sporadic contact with his children and his unconventional relationship with his estranged wife, Carla Lockwood. 
 Ms. Lockwood, now pregnant with twins, was charged with second-degree murder yesterday. If convicted, she would face a minimum penalty of 15 years in prison and a maximum of 25 years to life.
Ms. Lockwood made a brief court appearance to be formally notified of the indictment. Wearing a black blouse and striped pants, she stood expressionless in court, pausing only on her way out to give the waiting press corps a slow, stolid stare.
Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, declined to say whether charges would be filed against Mr. Dickerson, although he said the matter was under review. "As a father of seven children myself," he said, "I find this a horrendous crime."
During the interview on Thursday, Mr. Dickerson, 37, was by turns defensive and contradictory when asked about his efforts to see his children, his knowledge of his wife's drug use and the family's contact with the city's child-protection agency, then known as the Child Welfare Administration. He first said he did not recall ever having talked to a Child Welfare caseworker about his children. Then he said he might have. "Maybe, maybe not," he said.
Later, he said he remembered being interviewed once by a caseworker, although he could not remember when, or what he was asked. "It really was rather casual," he said. "She took notes, but it was very casual."
He never noticed signs of abuse or neglect, he said, even when he visited his daughter three months before he found her dead in her crib, weighing only 15 1/2 pounds. "She's always been thin," he said. "Even when she was born, she was a skinny baby."
When pressed and told that city officials said her emaciated body weighed less than that of an average 1-year-old, Mr. Dickerson grew angry and questioned their findings. "That's what they say," he said, adding, "Who does the Medical Examiner work for?"
Mr. Dickerson, who had not lived with his wife and children for several years, said that if he had seen Nadine being physically abused -- "being poked with a cattle prod or tied up" -- he would have tried to take her from her mother.
But he said he had no reason to believe she was being mistreated. "I came and left the house with the notion that my children were under no imminent danger at all," he said. "So what I don't see I can't do anything about."
He described a marriage and family life marred from the beginning by economic struggle. Mr. Dickerson, who already had a son from another relationship, and Ms. Lockwood, who was bringing up a 4-year-old daughter she had had when she was 16, met in a grocery store and dated for six or seven months before they married in a simple ceremony at the Bronx County Clerk's office in 1986.
Mr. Dickerson had been dishonorably discharged from the Marines, apparently after going AWOL. Although he worked off and on as a hospital security guard, he had difficulty finding full-time work. When the two married, he was out of a job, he said, and they lived apart, with their families, even as they began having children.
They lived with one of Ms. Lockwood's cousins for a while, he said, but not long after they had their first child, Nathan, they began to have differences and essentially never lived together again. "For all the other kids that we had, broke up, I wasn't there," he said. "I wasn't living in the household at all."
He estimated that about $260 in child support was garnished from his twice-monthly paychecks when he was working as a hospital guard. The checks averaged about $600 before the deduction, he said. But that money was taken only to support Nathan and Mr. Lockwood's daughter Nicole from his previous relationship, not the five other children he had fathered with Ms. Lockwood. One of their eight children was put up for adoption immediately after she was born.
Even that child support was cut off when Mr. Dickerson stopped working two years ago. He said this occurred after he had injured his back trying to lift a patient. Since then, he said, he has been "trying to make a life for myself so I could have one for my children."
He now says he plans to contest the city's attempt to terminate his parental rights and intends to seek custody of the surviving children and the unborn twins.
While he tried to answer most questions about his family, Mr. Dickerson said he was unable to answer perhaps the most crucial one: why he and Ms. Lockwood continued having children even as it became apparent that they could not care for them as parents.
"What was the thinking there?" he said. "I don't know. I can't explain it. It happened.
"Life sometimes has no answers for the way things turn out. I always had an open-door policy, thinking that we would reconcile and have a home, and have a better understanding between us as parents, and raise our kids together. But it never really transpired."
But he also said he felt somehow empowered by having children.
"I looked at it like this: they were my riches to the world, or our riches to the world," he said. "We weren't doctors, lawyers, and we weren't professional people. But we still took care of our children the best way we knew how, and they still were provided for in the best way that was possible."
"There wasn't any kind of standard in society saying, 'Don't have more than a certain number of kids.' " he added. "And we loved our kids."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about Leroy Dickerson, the father of a 4-year-old girl who was found starved to death, omitted the site of an interview with Mr. Dickerson. It was in a lawyer's office in Brooklyn. A picture with the article, showing Mr. Dickerson at his home in the Bronx, was taken a week before the interview.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Leroy Dickerson in his Bronx apartment, where he discussed the death of his daughter, Nadine Lockwood, 4. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILD ABUSE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (79%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); STARVATION (78%); MURDER (78%); CITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EVIDENCE (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); MAMMALS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (59%); 

PERSON: LOCKWOOD, NADINE; DICKERSON, LEROY; LOCKWOOD, CARLA; KENNEDY, RANDY RUDY GIULIANI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



163 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Kemp Courts Harlem Voters With Open Arms, Little Hope

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

 BODY:
Jack Kemp came to Harlem yesterday, the first Republican in at least half a century to take a Presidential campaign directly to the country's historical wellspring of black political power.
"My goal for America is that by the end of the century, 50 percent of all African-Americans in the country is voting Democratic and 50 percent is voting Republican," Mr. Kemp, the Republican nominee for Vice President, told several hundred people at a breakfast rally. 
 "We may not get 50 percent right now, but I think this country will be better off if both political parties compete for every single vote."
Since Bob Dole, the Republican Presidential nominee, picked him as running mate last month, Mr. Kemp has deployed his greatest strength on the campaign trail by appealing to groups that are strongly aligned with the Democratic ticket, Bill Clinton and Al Gore.
In the last week, Mr. Kemp has taken his campaign to inner-city neighborhoods and traditionally Democratic strongholds like South-Central in Los Angeles and the South Side of Chicago. But his foray into Harlem was more surprising.
The campaign had expected Democratic supporters to try to undermine Mr. Kemp's visit with demonstrations. But instead, the closest thing to a partisan exchange came as Mr. Kemp chatted briefly with Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat who has represented Harlem for 26 years.
"In the Dole Administration, you'll be the drug czar," Mr. Kemp jokingly told Mr. Rangel, who has long been outspoken about illegal drugs.
That brought an immediate retort from Mr. Rangel, the senior Democrat on the powerful Ways and Means Committee in a Republican-controlled House of Representatives: "In the Clinton Administration, I'll be chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee."
The day's campaign schedule for both parties was striking for the way it underscored the degree to which civil rights and the black vote have sprung forward in this campaign: the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee was campaigning in Harlem while the Democratic Presidential nominee, Bill Clinton, was addressing black Southern Baptists in Florida. Mr. Kemp's Harlem visit had been publicized for at least a week. And President Clinton's trip to the South today seemed at least in part an effort to match the Republicans' high-profile appeal to black voters.
Despite falling voter turnout in the upper Manhattan community, and the rise of black politicians elsewhere, Harlem is arguably still the symbolic power center for black politics. It was the base of the Harlem Renaissance in the arts as well that of Adam Clayton Powell, Malcolm X and David N. Dinkins.
The community has been an unassailable Democratic Party redoubt and Mr. Kemp made no pretense yesterday about breaking that Democratic hold. But he said, "All too often the Democratic Party has taken the black vote for granted, and all too often the Republican Party has written it off."
Mr. Kemp has been a frequent and welcomed visitor to Harlem during a political and public service career that included jobs as a Congressman representing Buffalo and as the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development from 1989 to 1992. As the Housing Secretary, Mr. Kemp established economic enterprise zones to help revitalize inner-city neighborhoods like Harlem.
Such policies and his traditionally staunch support of civil rights causes have made Mr. Kemp popular with black politicians and with some blacks in general.
Still, senior campaign aides had fretted for days that Mr. Kemp, now under the banner of the Republican Presidential ticket, might face protests in Harlem -- inspired by either the Democratic Party or unions or by any number of groups.
The aides were most worried that if the Harlem visit proved politically disastrous, it would not only undermine one element of Mr. Kemp's usefulness to the ticket, but would also be played out before a crush of journalists in the biggest media market in the country.
"We expect a big mess," a campaign aide said on Thursday, anticipating an all-out counter-effort from the Democrats.
Instead, when Mr. Kemp arrived at Sylvia's, a popular soul food restaurant at Lenox Avenue and 126th Street, he was greeted by a hundreds of curious onlookers but by fewer than a dozen assorted protesters.
Mr. Kemp ignored the protesters -- who included several people chanting "Clinton-Gore" and a man holding aloft a stop sign with the message "Stop Abortion" -- and their clamor was easily drowned out by the host of Republican supporters whom the campaign had rallied.
Inside the restaurant, Mr. Kemp drew thunderous applause from a crowd that included Gov. George E. Pataki, Lionel Hampton, the musician, and Mr. Rangel.
Mr. Kemp was welcomed by Van DeWard Woods, a Democrat-turned-Republican and the son of the restaurant's founder, Sylvia Woods, who herself is a Democrat.
"Republicans and Democrats alike welcome you to Harlem because you are an unusual kind of man -- you transcend labels and parties," Mr. Woods said at a restaurant that has long been a base for black Republicans in the New York.
"You make it easy for me as a black man to be a Republican right here in the heart of Harlem. You make it easier for African-Americans to be Republican anywhere in the world. We as a people cannot continue to be myopic, dealing with one party in a two-party world."
Mr. Kemp responded with one of his most energetic speeches of the campaign, even though he adhered to the same themes that he has repeated to largely white business groups, at town hall meetings and twice-a-day private fund-raisers.
Standing on a chair, he promised a "new civil rights agenda" under a Dole-Kemp Administration and chided his own party for its past stance on the issue.
"We weren't there with Dr. King," he said. "But we are here today and have an obligation to this community to make this country what it was suppose to be, a city on a hill."
Mr. Kemp added, "I consider this to be one of the most important appearances i will make as a candidate."
He said the first order of business in a Dole Administration would be to declare Harlem and other economically depressed inner-city neighborhoods "green zones," with no capital-gains taxes, and tax write-offs for those who invest in businesses.
"This is the color of the new civil rights revolution," he said as he waived a one dollar bill.
Among a sea of mostly black Republican loyalists, there were unexpected figures, including Conrad Muhammad, the New York representative of the black nationalist Louis Farrakhan, who has been urging blacks to be more politically active.
"I think he is a man that black America must look at very seriously," Mr. Muhammad told The Associated Press afterward, referring to Mr. Kemp. "He adds a lot to the Dole ticket."
Mr. Rangel, one of the few elected Democrats in the room, sat at a nearby table with Mr. Kemp's wife, Joanne. He welcomed Mr. Kemp, calling him a "dear friend."
"I think it would be an insult if Jack Kemp and Bob Dole did not seek every vote, including the African-American vote," Mr. Rangel said. "I have never met two individuals who have been more decent than Jack Kemp and Dole."
But outside the restaurant, Mr. Rangel made it clear that he showed up only to support Mr. Kemp on a personal level.
"Jack is a very nice guy in a mean-spirited party," Mr. Rangel told journalists. "He's really a very decent guy. He's just got the wrong party principle."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption on Saturday about Jack Kemp's campaign visit to Harlem misidentified the person seated between him and Representative Charles B. Rangel. He was the Rev. Thaddeus Garrett Jr., board chairman of Howard University and an adviser to the Dole campaign.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Charles B. Rangel, left, and Jack Kemp engaged in a partisan though good-natured exchange at Sylvia's in Harlem yesterday as Herman Cain, president of Godfather's Pizza, looked on. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); On his visit to Harlem, Jack Kemp embraced a fellow Republican, Robert L. Woodson Sr., president of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise. At left was Sylvia Woods of Sylvia's restaurant. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL (90%); NATIONAL CENTER FOR NEIGHBORHOOD ENTERPRISE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR NEIGHBORHOOD ENTERPRISE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BLACKS POLITICS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (64%); DRUG POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; KEMP, JACK F; RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); CHARLES B RANGEL (89%); AL GORE (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



164 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Striking Iraq Isn't The End Of It

BYLINE: By Phebe Marr; Phebe Marr is a senior fellow at the National Defense University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The American military has succeeded in containing Saddam Hussein in the south of Iraq, where it counts. It has also extended the no-flight zone to the outskirts of Baghdad, putting American planes in range of the regime's nerve center and further bottling up Mr. Hussein's military.
Just as important, the United Nations has reacted to Mr. Hussein's attack in northern Iraq by postponing a deal, under Resolution 986, to allow Baghdad to sell some oil every three months and use the proceeds to buy food and medicine. This will hurt the Iraqi people more than it will Mr. Hussein, but it will further discredit his political management. 
 Still, as the dust settles over the latest actions in Iraq, we should consider what the long-term costs will be for the United States.
At least one American ally, Turkey, will be left weaker; one adversary, Iran, will be left stronger. Turkey, a NATO member and important strategic partner, will be hurt the worst. The nation has been losing several billion dollars a year in pipeline revenues and trade because of the oil embargo against Iraq and had been counting on the renewed flow to help its economy. The canceled oil-for-food deal will deprive Turkey of this income and may push the new Islamic-led Government further in the direction of Iran, with which it has just concluded an agreement to import natural gas. This lucrative deal would fly in the face of recent American legislation intended to isolate Teheran and punish foreign companies investing in Iran's oil and gas industry.
At the same time, the American military action has failed to address Turkish concerns over an uncontrolled border with Iraq. Turkey, in its efforts to stop the cross-border attacks by its own Kurdish separatists (now in northern Iraq), has benefited from the help of the Kurdish faction in Iraq led by Massoud Barzani. But the Barzani faction has been weakened by its recent alliance with Mr. Hussein.
Now Turkey has announced it will move troops into northern Iraq to establish a buffer zone along the border. Such a zone, even a temporary one, might further destabilize the situation in northern Iraq. And the infringement on Iraqi sovereignty complicates Washington's attempts to gain support from regional allies and could encourage Iranian efforts to counter Turkish actions in northern Iraq.
A second cost to the United States is likely to be felt inside northern Iraq. Before its air strikes last week, Washington was trying to broker a peace between Mr. Barzani's faction and a rival Kurdish group led by Jalal Talabani and supported by Iran. Now, these differences are less likely than ever to be patched up, and Mr. Talabani's group, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, may again turn to Teheran for military support. This could provide an opening for further aggression by Mr. Hussein in support of the Barzani group. Such moves could require new American military actions.
Finally, in the Arab world, support for Iraq, if not for Mr. Hussein, may have been strengthened by the air strikes. Concern is rising about American challenges to Iraq's sovereignty in the north and the resulting rise of Turkish and Iranian influence. However distasteful Mr. Hussein's behavior, his action in reoccupying a portion of Iraqi territory, at the invitation of a recognized Kurdish leader, may be seen as legitimate. What's more, the suspension of the oil-for-food deal will generate concern for the Iraqi people and put more pressure on pro-Western countries like Saudi Arabia and Jordan. Neither nation publicly approved of the American air strikes, although Saudi Arabia will continue to provide a base for the American air wing patrolling southern Iraq.
So despite its successes, the United States now has at least three new issues to address. It must stabilize permanently Iraq's frontier with Turkey and prevent further Iranian moves into northern Iraq. It must keep the support of pro-Western Arab nations. And it must insure that actions like delaying the food-for-oil deal do not divide it from its allies or undermine the regional governments on which America relies for the containment of Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKEY (94%); IRAN (87%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (87%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; TURKEY; IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKEY (94%); IRAN (87%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (87%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (75%); NATURAL GAS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: MARR, PHEBE SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JALAL TALABANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1996



165 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: THE BIG CITY;
Bathroom Liberationists

BYLINE: By John Tierney 

 BODY:
I'VE SEEN A FEW frightening dramas on Broadway, but nothing onstage is ever as scary as the scene outside the ladies' room at intermission: that long line of women with clenched jaws and crossed arms, muttering ominously to one another as they glare across the lobby at the cavalier figures sauntering in and out of the men's room. The ladies' line looks like an audition for the extras in "Les Miserables" -- these are the vengeful faces that nobles saw on their way to the guillotine -- except that the danger is all too real. When I hear the low rumble of obscenities and phrases like "Nazi male architects" I know not to linger. I fear that someone will someday figure out how to fit an automatic weapon inside an evening purse -- and that no jury will ever convict the perpetrator of the Men's Room Massacre.
Who could blame her? A city that calls itself the cultural capital of the world ought to be able to build lavatories. Broadway theater owners know that their audiences are disproportionately female and researchers have measured the time it takes each sex to use a theater bathroom (75 seconds for a woman, 41 seconds for a man). So why are the ladies' rooms smaller than the men's rooms? Women assume that it's because the old theaters were all built by insensitive male clods -- which, of course, is true. But there's another reason. While renovating the New Amsterdam Theater, the architect Hugh Hardy recently found a program booklet from 1903 with a clue to the mystery of the missing toilets. 
 "All the ads in the program were aimed at women," Hardy says. "That must have been because the women were the only ones looking at the program during intermission. They stayed in their seats while the men went off to the bathroom and smoking lounge.
"It was a tradition that began in the late 19th century, when New York was the place where the nouveaux riches showed off by turning their wives into objects of display. Women were dressed up like pieces of furniture. With all their undergarments and corsets and trusswork and long gowns, they couldn't get in and out of the clothes by themselves, so women were trained from an early age that it was improper to use a public facility."
Fashions eventually changed, but Broadway theater owners balked at the expense of adding toilets. They knew that most ticket buyers are woefully unfamiliar with the specifics of any one theater's amenities.
"Economists call it a problem of asymmetric information," says Robert H. Frank, a professor at the Johnson Management School of Cornell University. "The public would probably be willing to pay a little extra at a Broadway theater with more bathroom stalls for women, but we can't readily vote with our dollars because we don't have that information when we buy tickets."
So women have been forced to take direct action -- sometimes, unfortunately, against their own sisters. At "The King and I," a friend of mine dragged her grandmother to the ladies' room and instructed her to wobble on her cane. "Come on, Grandma, act feeble!" she whispered as they both cut to the front of the line.
Another woman told me of a more elaborate strategem: before the show begins she tapes an "Out of Order" sign to a bathroom stall; at intermission she jumps the line by offering to inspect the problem.
It's more constructive simply to march across the lobby to the men's room. I made a small contribution to this effort one evening -- I enabled eight women to make the curtain of "Master Class" by standing guard as they used the men's room -- but when I later bragged about it I discovered a revolutionary vanguard that disdains help from oppressors.
"Who needs a man to stand guard?" said Ouidad Stephan-Wise, the owner of a hair salon in midtown. "I go in the men's room by myself. I'm already training my 4-year-old daughter. I tell her, 'The men made a mistake in not building us enough toilets and they feel guilty about it, so they're sharing their bathroom with us.' Some of the men got an attitude when we walked in -- the ones at the urinals hunch forward like turtles to cover themselves up."
Standing in line with men can be problematic. Carol Leifer, a comedian and television writer, was in line at "Rent" when the man in front of her turned around and said, "I think what you're doing is really criminal." She remained calm. "I just ignored the comment and motioned for him to keep moving with the line," she says. "He gave up and turned around. The trick is not to show any fear. If you act as if you're supposed to be there, the men will usually take the same attitude."
The ultimate goal of bathroom liberationists is to take over the men's room completely -- a not-impossible dream, as I discovered by watching the intermission of "Smoky Joe's Cafe" at the Virginia Theater, whose bathrooms had recently been reconfigured. The intermission began normally enough: the first dozen people out of the auditorium were savvy veterans sprinting to beat their sisters to the ladies' room, and the line soon stretched across the lobby. But to everyone's amazement, the line moved so quickly that the bathroom was empty five minutes before the end of intermission. Women were actually smiling as they walked back to their seats.
The Virginia's director of operations explained to me that the renovation had tripled the number of women's toilets by annexing a small part of the men's room. When I was given a tour of the new ladies' room, I felt some of the same pangs that Louis XVI experienced watching the peasants occupy the royal bedrooms of Versailles. But I knew it was a far, far better thing to do, and a far, far better rest room than any woman had ever known before. In one lobby, at least, peace and justice would prevail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW AMSTERDAM BOOKS (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; WOMEN; TOILETS THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WOMEN'S MARKET (78%); LINGERIE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN HUGH HARDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



166 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 48; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7834 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia's Last Best Hope

BYLINE: By Scott Anderson; Scott Anderson's last article for the Magazine was about the disaster-relief specialist Fred Cuny, who disappeared in Chechnya.

 BODY:
THEY ARE CLOSE FRIENDS, born and raised in Sarajevo, and in their telling it was once the best place in the world. They remember it as a place of parks and music and outdoor cafes, and what they remember most is the beauty of its setting, how wherever they happened to be in their valley city they could look past rooftops to see the stony, pine-covered hills that towered above it. They are now in their early 20's -- Nedim Haveric, 20; Ines Milunic, 21; Emir Ganibegovic, 23 -- but already they have about them a sense of nostalgia, a rose-tinted wistfulness for the lives they once had.
On this overcast, late-summer day, they meet in a vast outdoor cafe in the center of town. It is one of scores of cafes that have sprouted up in every corner of Sarajevo in the past eight months of peace, and the main difference among them seems to be the decibel level their sound systems can achieve. Nedim, Ines and Emir have chosen a loud one with a fondness for Croatian techno-pop. They are gathered to celebrate something of a milestone in Nedim's life. 
 Throughout the summer, each has been preparing for a battery of makeup college exams, trying to recoup from the disruptions of the war when classes were often little more than ad hoc tutorials in candle-lighted bomb shelters. To the Bosnian Government officials and foreign sponsors who have organized the program, the remedial exams represent a tangible benefit of the Dayton accords, the United States-brokered settlement that halted the fighting in January -- morale-boosting proof that the fabric of society was not destroyed, that lost time can be recovered. Earlier in the day, Nedim took the first of many exams he needs to pass for a degree in mechanical engineering.
"I failed," he announces breezily. "It was an essay test, but the professor was able to glance at my paper and to know at once." He lights a cigarette and gazes thoughtfully across the cafe. "I think maybe I studied too much."
Ines laughs. "I'm sure that's it."
Nedim has no need to ask how Ines fared on her recent biology exam. The two have been paired -- and compared -- since infancy, a result of their mothers working together at the Svjetlost publishing firm. That Ines's test results have placed her at the top of her dentistry class has been the source of incessant conversation around Nedim's home in recent days.
"Since primary school," he says in mock peevishness, "it's been, 'Why can't you be more like Ines?' " He trails his cigarette in the ashtray. "Anyway, I can take the exam again in three weeks. I know someone who failed eight times before passing."
On the other side of the table, Emir watches Nedim with amusement. They've been friends since they met on a Croatian beach during family vacations, and it was Nedim who later introduced Emir to Ines. Emir is studying economics and his first exam is in a couple of weeks. When asked how he thinks he'll do, he gives a quick, assured nod. "I will pass, no problem. I must pass, so I will."
If ever it were possible to hold up a group of young Bosnians as somehow representative of their generation, a dubious enterprise under any circumstances, it certainly would not be these three friends. The children of professional parents -- engineers and editors and marketing directors -- they were a part of the cosmopolitan society that once flourished in middle-class Sarajevo. It was a world of considerable privilege and sophistication by Bosnian standards, even by American standards. They spent their summers at family-owned condominiums on the Adriatic coast, went on ski vacations to the nearby mountains in winter. Their mothers and fathers traveled throughout Europe for their work, and they brought back toys from Germany, clothes from France. In their homes, books and art and culture were important; English was the second language; simple luxuries -- in fashion, in the latest popular music -- were indulged, and for all of them, higher education was not just a possibility but a certainty.
They were also raised to believe they had been born into a modern nation, a place where the ethnic and religious hatreds that had ravaged the Balkans for centuries were now buried, little more than sordid tales from a primitive past. And when that proved not to be the case, when their country was ripped apart by the bloodiest conflict in Europe since World War II, they were still far luckier than many; none were injured, none lost immediate family members to the fighting.
But in another way, Nedim, Ines and Emir are representative of something vitally important in Bosnia today: an idea, perhaps more a dream. Quite simply, it is young people like them who are now looked upon by the would-be peacemakers as the last, best hope of restoring a lost nation.

A Generation Betrayed
T HE DRAMA NOW BEING ENACTED IN Sarajevo's streets is both astonishing and paradoxical. The city that once stood as a shaming symbol of Western impotence and indifference is today virtually besieged once again, this time by a vast and varied army of do-gooders: technical advisers and disaster-relief specialists, human rights monitors and social engineers. During the day, downtown rings with the sound of hammering and power saws as buildings are restored, war-scarred walls smoothed over with fresh plaster and paint. Every night, strollers pack Ferhadija Street, the wide pedestrian concourse that winds through the old center. The electric trams, the chief form of public transportation before the war, have been returned to the roads, and they compete there with the decked-out four-wheel drives of some 200 different humanitarian organizations and the jeeps and tanks and transport trucks of peacekeeping troops from around the globe. And in what is perhaps the surest sign in the late 20th century that a war zone is on the mend, the city has now become a destination for "death tourists" -- rangy German and Australian couples come to photograph the devastation. Tourists and Hollywood production crews; Woody Harrelson was here in June for the filming of his Bosnia movie, one of four scheduled for the streets of Sarajevo this year.
Not that all this activity reflects the stirrings of true peace. The nation remains in de facto partition, with the self-proclaimed Srpska Republic of the Bosnian Serbs still under the sway of its former President, indicted war criminal Radovan Karadzic, and still openly flouting the freedom-of-movement clause that is a cornerstone of the Dayton accords. In the elections scheduled for Saturday, but by no means assured, the three main nationalist parties -- with their appeal to the most chauvinistic strains in the Muslim, Croat and Serb communities and led by politicians with little interest in conciliation -- are expected to trounce their more moderate opposition.
And as impressive as is the physical rehabilitation of downtown Sarajevo, there is far less of it in the rest of the city and it is barely past the blueprint stage for much of the devastated countryside. Even the burgeoning cafe culture of Sarajevo underscores a grim fact. With the economy in ruin and unemployment estimated at more than 50 percent, many residents sit in cafes or stroll Ferhadija simply because they have nothing else to do.
Those who do believe Bosnia can come back tend to pin their hopes on Sarajevo: the political and economic heart of the nation, the prewar cultural melting pot where Muslims, Croats and Serbs -- at least of a certain class -- worked and lived together. The greatest part of that hope is lavished on the young like Nedim, Ines and Emir. Intelligent and educated, liberal and skeptical, it is they who might cast off the demagogues and propagandists and finally end the Balkan curse of mean and petty history.
All three ardently wish for a rapprochement between the factions and are openly contemptuous of the nationalist parties. All consider themselves moderately religious -- Ines is a Croat Catholic, Nedim and Emir are Muslims -- but it is a religiosity that doesn't require much heavy lifting: no proscriptions against smoking or drinking or dating, no thought to praying five times a day or going to church on Sunday or arguing the righteousness of one's faith over that of another. All profess to have no resentment for Serbs in general, only for those who shelled them for four years.
But then there is Nedim's soft stutter, only evident when he recalls a difficult memory from the war years. About Ines, there is a kind of brittle nervousness, a permanent, slightly startled expression in her eyes, a severe tremble to her hands. And in Emir, who is usually solicitous and cheerful, a sudden remoteness will settle, a sad detachment that seems impenetrable.
Two weeks of conversation with these three friends and many other young Sarajevans elicited a profound sense of their having been betrayed, a betrayal so vast and multilayered that most could barely find the words to articulate it. Before the war, they imagined themselves to be a part of Europe and trusted that other Europeans would come to their aid at a bad moment. They were wrong. They believed that their country and city were progressive and trusted that their leaders would not lead them into ruin. They were wrong. Perhaps most wounding, they believed they knew their neighbors and friends well, that only some outside fanatics would shoot at them from the hills, and they were wrong about this, too.
Around young Sarajevans like Nedim, Ines and Emir there now hangs a shadow of doubt, as if the ground they walked on all their lives suddenly gave way beneath them -- and could do so again at any time.
"There is one thing you must understand about our generation," Emir finally says that day at the cafe. "We are destroyed."
 
Nedim: Coming of Age in a Basement
W HAT I CAN TELL YOU," Nedim Haveric says, "is that this war came as a surprise to all of us. None of my friends saw it coming, none of us."
It is a cool afternoon, and Nedim has offered to give me a tour of Sarajevo -- at least that tiny portion of the old downtown that was his orbit for much of the siege. We have met at his parents' home, a third-floor apartment on Obala Kulina Bana, a main thoroughfare that skirts the north bank of the Miljacka River, and are standing in the bedroom he shares with his 18-year-old brother, Adnan. The room has the slightly raffish aura of a college dorm, with clothes strewn over the floor and cassettes of rock music scattered over the small desk where the brothers are meant to study. There is a slight bowl in the ceiling over Nedim's bed, the only remaining evidence of the grenade that came through the roof early in the war.
"I had a very good friend in school, Borsha," Nedim says. "He was Serb, and we used to make jokes about the nationalists. Borsha would say, 'Karadzic has some really good ideas; he's a good man,' just to make fun, you know? And one time when we were playing basketball in school, we decided to divide everyone up by religion -- all the Muslims and Croats on one side, the Serbs on the other. But it was as a joke, just to make fun of all the fanatics." He takes me into the family living room, where there comes a soft clacking sound every few minutes as another electric tram passes on the street below. It is a pleasant, airy room, with parquet floors, a high ceiling and large windows overlooking the river. Down to the left, maybe 200 feet away, is the bridge where a Serb nationalist, Gavrilo Princip, assassinated the Archduke of Austria and his wife in 1914 and started World War I. Princip was long considered a hero by Sarajevo's Serbs, the fateful bridge renamed in his honor, the steps from which he fired the fatal shots preserved as a crude shrine. With the outbreak of war in 1992, Muslim militiamen took sledgehammers to the steps.
Nedim points across the narrow river, past the shattered buildings on the opposite bank, to the steeply rising hillside. He traces a finger along the ridgeline of trees and whitewashed houses, 300 or 400 yards away. "That is where the Serbs were," he says. "So, a nice apartment, but not so nice in wartime." He laughs. "But we were very lucky. Only two grenades, the one in my room and this one here." He pulls back a window curtain to reveal a radiating crack in the exterior brickwork.
With their apartment completely exposed, Nedim's family retreated to the building's basement during bombardments. As a barrier against stray bullets and shrapnel, his mother found use for the extensive library she had compiled as marketing director for the Svjetlost publishing house, filling the window recesses with books.
 A S WE LEAVE THE APARTMENT AND stroll toward the center of town, Nedim recalls that, at the very beginning, he rather enjoyed the war. Initially, the heaviest fighting was about a mile to the west of downtown, and for Nedim there was something almost festive about the mortars and artillery shells arcing across the night sky, reminiscent of a New Year's celebration. Even when the shelling shifted into his neighborhood and the long months of isolation began, his existence was not entirely bleak. Marooned between the apartment building and its basement, Nedim began a romance with the only girl he had regular contact with, his 19-year-old downstairs neighbor.
"It was great," he remembers. "I was only 16, but we were both trapped here and I loved her very much. We became like a couple living together. Our parents never said anything about this, because they understood we could die soon, so. . . . " Nedim shrugs. "But then she escaped from Sarajevo and now she is married. A sad story." He laughs again.
We come to the wide pedestrian concourse of Ferhadija Street, crowded with afternoon strollers. Nedim draws up before a cosmetics store and points to the ground, at the distinctive circular design left by a mortar shell. Shrapnel scars radiate in all directions from the core of the blast, a deeper gouge in the stone that looks rather like a horseshoe sunken into wet cement.
"We call this a rose," he says. "Sarajevo rose. This was the bread-line massacre."
Around midday of May 27, 1992, Bosnian Serb gunners on the hills above Sarajevo dropped two mortars into this seemingly sheltered corner of Ferhadija and directly into a queue of residents waiting to buy bread, killing 16 and wounding scores. Nedim was two blocks away when the mortars landed.
"I was with my father and my brother," he recalls, "and we were coming here to buy bread. And we heard the blasts and we came running to here and . . . it was terrible. People were screaming, running. Smoke. Blood. Blood up there." He points to the second floor of the cosmetics shop. "A lot of dead bodies, and I helped with those bodies. I was 16, my brother was only 14, and we had come with our father and . . . well, it was the first time for me, the first time to see something like this."
Over the coming years, there would be many more massacres in Sarajevo, so many that eventually a numerical system would be needed to keep them straight: the first market massacre, the second market massacre. And just as the rest of the world became innured to the images, so did the city's residents, an estimated 10,000 of whom were killed during the war.
"You get used to it," Nedim explains. "Dead bodies and blood, it becomes normal. Maybe sometime you are walking and you see there is a lot of blood in front of you, but you don't think about it. You think about it like it is water, like rain. You just go past."
For Nedim, life under the siege settled into a monotonous routine almost primal in its simplicity, the mind-numbing boredom of days spent in the basement without food or electricity alternating with adrenaline bursts of fear whenever he needed to venture out for water or bread or firewood. The very ebb and flow of the fighting -- periods of intense bombardment, followed by days, even months, of relative quiet -- only served to heighten the Chinese water-torture quality of the war.
"One thing I learned during this time that was very good was how low people can live. In order to survive, we can live lower than any animal, and I think this is a great strength for us."
Like everyone else who remained in the besieged city -- a little over half the prewar population of 600,000 -- Nedim was forced to live by his wits. With his school closed, he tried to keep up by reading outdated textbooks in the basement bomb shelter. During one period of calm, he landed a part-time job in a printing office; best of all, he was paid in cigarettes, which could be exchanged for food. Even when a grenade came through the window of the office, killing his co-worker, Nedim stayed on.
Around him, he saw a city diminishing by the day. The steeply banked park near his grandparents' home, where his father had taught him to ski, became another Sarajevo graveyard. His childhood friend, Ines, was trapped in the Pofalici neighborhood a mile to the west; he saw Emir from time to time and they talked on the phone when the lines were working. Most of his other friends were gone -- the Serbs to Serbia, the Croats to Croatia, the luckier Muslims into refugee camps in Germany and Austria.
"The problem now is so many of those who left can't come back," Nedim says. "Maybe they want to return, because they remember Sarajevo was a great city before, but I think they will have to stay somewhere else. For example, I was telling you about my friend Borsha. He is Serb and he was maybe my best friend in school, but I think he can't come back here."
At the mention of Borsha, Nedim becomes a bit troubled; a stutter creeps into his voice.
"I remember just before the fighting started, Borsha came to me and said he was going to Serbia with his family for a few days. I asked him why, and he said, 'I don't know, my father just told me we are going for a short visit.' So he went and . . . well, he never came back. And sometimes I wonder if maybe Borsha knew the war was coming.
"But I can't believe that. O.K., maybe his father knew, but we were very young -- 15, 16 -- and I-I-I have to believe Borsha didn't know. I have to believe that."
In the summer of 1994, Nedim was also faced with the choice of leaving Sarajevo. The precipitating event was his draft notice, delivered shortly after his 18th birthday. After receiving 15 days of combat training, he was informed, he would be sent to the front lines outside the beleaguered town of Gorazde. "It was very hard to know what to do," he says, as we walk back along the bank of the Miljacka, toward his home. "So many of my friends were in the army -- Emir was there -- and I wanted to be with them, but I also didn't want to die. I wanted to have a life, and my parents wanted me to have a life, too."
Raising enough money to pay a smuggler, his parents got Nedim out of Sarajevo and eventually to Germany, where he stayed until the end of the war. He returned to the city in April, four months after the Dayton accords were signed and the siege lifted.
That he didn't stay and fight is a decision that clearly still torments him. Although he doesn't feel any direct ostracism from close friends like Emir, who did join up, Nedim is keenly aware of the subtle schism that now lies between him and them.
"Sometimes I feel kind of guilty," he says, "or someone will say: 'Where were you? Were you hiding?' But I know I am not a coward. I saw a lot of my friends getting killed for nothing, and I didn't see the end of this war, I saw nothing, and I didn't want to get killed for nothing, I wanted to have some future. Maybe someone can blame me for this, but. . . . "
As if it might in some way bolster his words, Nedim asks if I want to see the apartment-building basement, the shelter where he and his family waited out the bombardments. He hasn't been down there in over two years, not since his escape to Germany.
It is a tiny, dank space, perhaps 8 by 12 feet, divided into four minute storage cubicles. During the worst of the shelling, in the first year of the war, as many as 11 of the building's residents sought refuge here, often remaining for days. To maximize the terror effect, and perhaps also to maximize casualties, the Serb gunners devised the tactic of opening up at 4 or 5 in the morning when Sarajevans were sure to be asleep, sparking frenzied dashes from beds to cellars in the dark.
Nedim sits on the narrow door placed flat on a wall ledge, the communal "couch" where he and his brother slept.
"We would just go like this." Nedim leans back against the wall and closes his eyes. "It was terrible, so terrible. To be down here with no food, no water, maybe one candle burning, and you didn't know when it would end."
He spots something on the wooden slats of the storage cubicle in front of him and sits forward, reaching out to scratch at the wood with a fingernail. It is graffiti he made in the early days of the siege, his nickname "Nedo" rendered in blue ink, followed by the detailed insignia of the Bosnian Army.
"You know, there is something I want to tell you," he says softly. "Maybe one year after the war started, I was watching Bosnian Serb television and my friend Borsha was there. He had become a big Serb warrior. He had on the bandana and he was holding a machine gun, bullets across his chest. So now I think maybe he knew everything about the war coming. He left here before anything started, so I think he had to know. But I still don't understand. He was my good friend and he never said to me, 'Look out, there will be a war here, you must protect yourself.' I can't understand this, I will never understand this. We were here together, but then he left me and I will never understand why."
 Ines: The Sniper and the Doll
A LONG ONE WALL OF HER FAMILY'S living room, Ines Milunic has erected a shrine of sorts, a sprawling collage of newspaper headlines and magazine photographs that chronicle the exploits of Toni Kukoc, the Croatian basketball star who now plays forward for the Chicago Bulls. Ines met Kukoc in 1988, when he was captain of the Yugoslav Olympic team, and she has maintained a rather flagrant crush on him ever since.
Whatever the collage might say about the romantic sophistication of a 21-year-old woman, its placement reveals a lot about Ines's status within her family; there aren't many households in any culture, after all, where a child is allowed to dictate the living-room decor. But Ines is, and always has been, special, the center of the small universe she inhabits.
"I was terribly spoiled growing up, it is true," she says with a grin. "I had everything, anything I wanted."
The only child of a brief and unhappy marriage, Ines was raised by her mother and maternal grandparents in the home where she still lives, a comfortable, stucco house on the Pofalici hillside overlooking the city. She remembers her childhood as an idyll, one in which she was pampered and indulged, the object of adoration for three doting adults. She also recognizes it was a protective cocoon that left her ill prepared for what was to come.
"Because of the way I was brought up, I never thought anything bad might happen. Even when I was watching the war in Croatia in 1991 on TV and saw all the destroying and dying, I thought: 'Oh, those poor people. I'm so sorry for them, but I can't do anything, it's so far away.' " She laughs. "Well, not so far away."
Ines turns in her chair and points out the side window of the living room to the next house along the ridgeline, 40 feet away. It is a far larger home than her's, a brick-and-marble affair with a series of descending terraces, but now it is gutted, its window frames torn out, most of the marble fixtures gone.
"The family that lived there, the father was something big in the Yugoslav Army, a Serb," she says. " When the war started, they say he was giving some kind of help to the enemy -- signaling with his lights to the Serbs on the other side of the river or something -- so that family had to run away. Then the neighbors came and took out everything from the house. It was such a nice house, very nice furniture, and it was all taken away."
Ines leads the way out to the narrow veranda of her home. There is a sweeping view of central Sarajevo, the hills descending to the factories and apartment high-rises in the flatlands along the Miljacka River, then climbing again into the Grbavica neighborhood on the far bank, perhaps a mile away. The view is dominated by the Energoinvest building at the base of the hill, a 17-story office tower that is now a blackened husk.
In the first major contest for Sarajevo, the Serbs tried to cut the city in two at its narrowest point, one unit attacking from Grbavica, another from the hills directly behind Ines's home. Throughout the offensive, Pofalici was a battlefield, and it was the mortar and artillery shells falling there that Nedim, a mile away in the city center, had watched arc across the sky and likened to a New Year's celebration. Since Pofalici was an especially "mixed" neighborhood of middle-class Serb, Croat and Muslim families, the fighting took on a particularly surreal edge.
"I would look outside," Ines remembers, "and I would see my neighbors shooting down into the city." She points to different houses on the hillside. "From that home, and that one, and that one. It was something like today we are here and we are talking, and tomorrow you are shooting at me. I just couldn't conceive of that. I was so confused."
Ines leans against the veranda railing, folds her arms across her chest. "And my best friend from grammar school, Zoran, he was killed during this time. He lived near here and he was killed fighting for the Serbs. Afterward, the Bosnian Army found so many weapons in his house. I couldn't believe that, that he was on the other side, that he died."
Ines returns to the living room and settles into the armchair beneath the Kukoc collage.
Even after the Serbs abandoned their pincer assault and retrained most of their guns on the city center, Pofalici remained a periodic target for snipers and artillery crews across the river in Grbavica, enough so that the Milunic family moved permanently into their cellar. For Ines, it was a long way from her golden childhood. With the space too small for beds, she slept on her old sled. Without gas or electricity, and surviving on the subsistence diet handed out by the United Nations, she grew progressively thinner and sickly in the cold cellar. Making the situation simultaneously safer and more intolerable was the fierce protectiveness of her mother and grandparents.
"They didn't ever want me to go out," Ines says softly, glancing at the doorway for any sign of her mother. "If we needed something, they would go out, but I would have to stay. There was a period, over three months, when I never left." She plucks at the arm of the chair and gives a rueful smile. "And then there was one time when I did go out, when I insisted. A bad time." She gets up quickly and leaves the living room, returning with a doll. It is a simple child's doll, a Raggedy Ann knockoff with a plastic head and mop hair. "This was my very first doll, and it is still my favorite."
She sits down and sets the doll on her lap as if it were a child.
"Well, this one time, my grandfather had to get water, and I insisted on going with him. The well is close to here, and it was at night, a very dark night, no moon or stars. We were walking in the alley when a sniper started shooting at us. He was very close, I could see the flash just at the end of the street, so I jumped into a doorway to hide. But I couldn't see my grandfather because it was so dark. I couldn't call to him with the sniper so close, and he couldn't call to me, so I had to just wait there in the doorway, and I am thinking . . . well, all that night I was remembering this doll." She pats it on the head. "Because it was the first doll he gave me. I was 3 or 4, and I remember he came into the house, into this room, and he was holding his hands behind his back, and he said: 'Ines, I have a present for you. Do you want to see your present?' -- you know, teasing me. And then he gave me this doll."
Ines runs her hands through the doll's mop hair and blinks back tears.
"So all that night, I was remembering how he gave me this doll, how he teased me, and I am thinking that now he is dead. So I am crying in the doorway, but crying very soft so the sniper won't hear me. And then finally, after all night staying there, the sky is light enough so I can see across the alley and I see that my grandfather is in another doorway and he is alive, too. And that for me was the worst time. That was when I saw what war can do."
By the summer of 1993, the Milunic household became aware of a new potential danger facing them in Pofalici. As Catholic Croats loyal to the Bosnian Government, they had long been regarded as fellow victims by their Muslim neighbors, but that began to change when Croats and Muslims went to war against each other in central Bosnia. Quite rapidly, many Croats who had remained in Sarajevo found themselves facing the same hostility from militant Muslims as that directed at Serbs who had stayed, suspicions that they were not truly Bosnian loyalists but enemy fifth columnists. That July, Ines' grandfather made arrangements for her and her mother to escape to Croatia in a refugee convoy.
For Ines, reaching Croatia was like walking into sunlight -- quite literally, considering the year she had spent in the cellar. Moving in with cousins in a town on the Adriatic coast, she regained her health, enrolled in school, made new friends. She wrote a play about her experiences in the war and graduated from her new high school with honors. Accepted into a Croatian university for the autumn of 1994, she seemed poised to reclaim what she had lost in Bosnia: security, the chance for a bright future. Instead, with the war in Bosnia still raging, she returned to Sarajevo.
"I just missed my grandparents so much," she explains, gazing about the living room. "The whole time I was in Croatia, everything going so well for me, I was thinking about them, what they were doing, if they had food." She sits back in the armchair and sighs. "So, I came back. I had to come back."
Ines was shocked at how much her grandparents had changed during her absence; they were haggard and emaciated, seemed 10 or 15 years older. And Sarajevo had changed as well. During a lull in the siege, she finally ventured down to the city center, just a mile from Pofalici, but a place she hadn't seen in over two years. She wandered the streets she had walked as a teen-ager and found many of them almost unrecognizable, cafes and stores she had once frequented turned to rubble. She looked for her childhood friend Nedim, only to learn he had left for Germany a few months before. She looked for all of her old friends from the city center and found none of them; all had either left -- for Serbia, for Croatia, for the army -- or were dead.
Even harder to reconcile was the changed character of the city; to Ines, Sarajevo now seemed a meaner, harder place. In the early days of the siege, she recalled, there had been a spirit of solidarity, friends and neighbors sharing whatever small amounts of food or coffee or cigarettes they had. Now, after over two years of shelling, people had become selfish and distrustful. Being a Catholic Croat only made things worse. That autumn, Ines began dating a college student, a Muslim named Dino, but his parents were so relentlessly opposed to their son seeing a nonbeliever that Dino soon ended the relationship.
"We are still friends and talk sometimes," Ines says, "but the pressure from his parents was too much. And I don't believe this would have ever happened before. It is only because of the war and all these hatreds. Before, I couldn't tell from your name if you were Serb or Croat or Muslim, I just didn't think about that, and mostly nobody thought about that. But now they do. That's why Sarajevo doesn't feel like my city anymore. Now, I just want to get away."
Ines sets the doll on the living-room coffee table and takes down a photo album from a bookshelf. It is filled with photographs of her as a teen-ager, just before the war, and for some minutes she flips through the pages, pointing out different summer vacations and school outings, different friends. She stops at one photo of herself at 16, her arm intertwined with that of a thin blond girl.
"This is my friend Sanje. She is Serb and she went to Serbia in the war. She came back here last week to arrange some papers because she wants to leave for Australia. It was so nice to see her again; we just laughed and talked for so many hours. But not about the war, only about simple things. I didn't talk to her about that because I knew we would find a big difference between us and I didn't want to think about that. I have my opinion of her, it's from before the war, and I don't want to change that."
Ines closes the album and puts it on the coffee table next to the doll, but continues to stare at its blue cover.
"I can see now that there was a big problem in my education," she says. "My family always taught me that I should never divide people, that I should trust them, that people are good. Well, that is a big problem for me, because now I have seen for myself the way people are."
 
Emir: From High School to the Front
 
A T THE BACK OF Emir Ganibegovic's old bunker there is a postcard view of downtown Sarajevo. From this height, the city looks both placid and exotic, an expanse of orange-tiled roofs and white walls nestled between steeply rising hills, its skyline dominated by dozens of thin minarets. At the front of the bunker, the view is of a shallow ravine and deep forest. For nearly four years, this outpost on Mount Nisici marked the edge of battle, the first Serb trench a mere 60 yards across the ravine, so close Emir could hear the enemy talk at night.
From force of habit, Emir first peers across the divide from behind the protection of a tree. Then he hoists himself onto the parapet of sandbags and starts to walk along the rim of the three-man bunker.
"It's like the war never happened," he whispers, staring into the ravine. "How can you imagine a war taking place here? You can't."
Emir had just graduated from high school and was planning to study economics at the University of Sarajevo when the war started. Like most of his classmates, he immediately volunteered for the Bosnian Army, and things moved pretty quickly after that. After some rudimentary basic training, he was issued a Kalashnikov and dispatched to the front. Over the next three and a half years, he would be sent to various points along the defensive ring around Sarajevo, as well as to battlefields throughout Bosnia. There was a certain commonality to these places; in nearly every one, Emir was placed at the extreme front, the "tripwire" trench closest to the enemy. His longest such duty was in the bunker on Mount Nisici.
It was a tiny encampment, just two earthen rooms dug out of the side of a hill -- a one-man sniper nest overlooking the ravine, an open shelter in back overlooking the city -- connected by a narrow sandbagged trench. It remains largely intact. The bare earth is littered with bullet casings and gauze bandage wrappers and the remnants of burnt candles. Birds sing from the high branches of surrounding trees, while the lower branches have been shorn away by gunfire, the trunks stripped of bark and imbedded with metal. The sandbags are actually flour and rice sacks recycled from the international airlift mission into Sarajevo.
The bunker is one in a string scattered in the forest on the downward slope of the mountain, and it doesn't take a soldier to sense the inherent terror of defending any of them. With no sightline uphill, the defenders had no way of knowing when the enemy on the high ground was launching an attack until shells began to rain upon them.
Emir remembers the time he spent here as a blur of three- and four-day stints spent alternately sitting in the back of the shelter to stare down at Sarajevo and crouching in the sniper's nest to watch the ravine and listen to the forest. More distinct in his memory is the steep climb up from his parents' home in the city. Hauling all the food and water he would need for his stay, the two-mile journey could take several hours, slowed at the bottom by shelling and random gunfire, quickened at the top into a scramble through gardens and alleys to avoid the Serb snipers on the ridge 200 yards above. Psychologically, the commute was difficult in both directions.
"I think when you are a soldier you must think like a prisoner," he says. "You must stop thinking about your life before -- your family and friends, what you used to do, that isn't helpful. Coming up was hard because I knew I was returning to the war, but to go back down and see my family, to sleep in my own room again, sometimes this was a bigger pressure on me." That pressure eased when his younger sister, his only sibling, and his mother finally escaped from Sarajevo. "That was very good, because then I could put them out of my mind, I didn't have to think about them anymore."
In the late afternoon, we follow a small paved road up to the top of the mountain, to the now-abandoned Serb line. Emir has never seen the battlefield from this vantage point and he is curious to see just how exposed he was in his bunker. We follow an old Serb trench through the trees to a forest clearing, the rutted ground still bearing the imprint of tank treads. During the war, it was the site of a Serb tank and artillery emplacement, and for Emir the most maddening feature of being stationed here; pinned in his bunker below, he would watch the tank and artillery shells going over his head to fall on the city, knowing he was powerless to stop them.
Just beyond the clearing, the land levels out into a wooded promontory laced with trenches and bunkers. The bunkers have now been destroyed by the NATO Implementation Force (IFOR) demilitarization project, but the area has not been entirely cleared of land mines; with a soldier's sense of where they are most likely to be, Emir charts a zigzag course through the ruins until we come out at the promontory rim. The view down into Sarajevo is similar to the one from Emir's old bunker, only more sweeping, free of any obstruction. He sits on the front sandbags of a ruined Serb machine-gun nest to gaze over the city. Somewhere in the forest just below is his old bunker, invisible amid the thicket of trees.
Chain-smoking Drina cigarettes, Emir talks about his friends who went with him into the war, not so much the ones who didn't come back as the ones who did. Most of them are having problems adjusting to peacetime and spend their days idly sitting in their homes. Emir attributes a lot of it to the shattered economy and lack of jobs, but he also sees the lingering effect of battle. "There are some who can't do anything now," he says. "They are still frightened by what happened to them in the war."
I ask if he feels any resentment for those of his friends, like Nedim, who didn't fight. Emir thinks for a long time before answering.
"Now, no, because I know that none of us wanted to fight," he says. "For all of us, if we had the chance to get out, maybe we all would have gone, so I cannot blame those who had the chance. But before, I didn't think this way. During the war, we who were soldiers were very angry at the ones who left. We said that if they came back to Sarajevo, we would not have any contact with them. But now it is not this way. We have to be with them because they are our friends. We have to make things normal again."
It is only quite late in the day, the sun already slipped below the western wall of mountains, when there is the suggestion that Emir arrived at this equanimity through hard experience. With little emotion, he recounts the time when a Serb attack had just been repelled and he, hunkered in his forward sniper position, caught sight of the last Serb in the unit, clambering up the hillside about 30 yards away. Emir shot him dead.
"This was a little hard for me," he says, pulling on his cigarette. "For maybe a month, I was always thinking of him at night. I finally talked with my mother about it. She was very upset and sad for me, but she said, 'It's O.K. He was trying to kill you, you had no choice.' And that is true, but still I am always trying to imagine who he was, what he looked like, how old he was. Because, you know, we were just boys up here, and this one I killed, maybe he was like me, maybe I even knew him before the war." Emir flicks his cigarette down the escarpment and smiles. "I wish next time there was a war, it would only be for the ones who wanted it. I wish they would say, 'O.K., we're going to have a war now, so everyone under 30 has to leave.' "
Emir laughs at the thought of it.

Should I Stay or
Should I Go?
 
O N A SCORCHING Sunday morning, the three friends decide to make a brief escape from Sarajevo. In normal times, they would go to the Adriatic coast, some three hours away, but now there is a Croatian border checkpoint to be crossed and Ines's mother is worried the guards might cause trouble for a Croatian girl traveling with two Muslim boys. Instead, they choose a more modest destination: Lake Jablanica in the heart of Bosnia, about an hour south of the city.
The shores of the mountain lake are crowded with bathers, but Nedim knows of a secluded spot. He leads the way along the shoreline, across the terrace of a war-shattered villa to an abandoned apple orchard above a small inlet. Spreading their picnic blanket beneath an apple tree, the friends fritter away the day, Emir and Nedim periodically diving into the cool water, Ines lounging in the shade.
Bosnia today lingers in precarious limbo, no longer at war but certainly not at peace. None of the three believe the scheduled elections will bring Bosnia any closer to reunification.
"The nationalist parties will win very big in the elections," Nedim says, "that is for certain. I won't vote for them, and I don't think any of my friends, but they will win. So the country will stay partitioned."
Emir nods in agreement. "It will be one country only on paper. Maybe we will have some little economic relations with Srpska, and there will be enough diplomatic meetings for the Americans to say the federation is working, but that is all. None of us will cross to the Serb side for a long time, and I don't think they will come here."
To a great degree, Bosnia's fate will be decided within the next few months: by the outcome of the elections, by what will happen if the IFOR peacekeepers begin leaving in December as scheduled and -- not least -- by what promises will be made or broken if Bosnia becomes an issue in the American Presidential election. Those working to rebuild the Balkans recognize that the one absolutely vital step toward any long-term peace is to induce young people to stay on. The youth who have streamed out -- from Serbia and Croatia, as well as from Bosnia -- have tended to be the best and the brightest, the most educated and industrious, the very people for whom the martial jingoism of the nationalists never held sway. The Balkans cannot recover, either economically or politically, if it loses too many more of the best of its young.
Ines has returned to her university studies, Nedim from his exile in Germany. Emir is finally freed from the trenches. Perhaps most remarkably, given the staggering unemployment in Sarajevo, Emir has even landed two part-time jobs, working as a bartender in his cousin's cafe-bar downtown and as an interpreter for a Japanese humanitarian organization.
But what becomes apparent as Nedim, Ines and Emir sun and talk on the lakeshore is that their calm acceptance of things as they are in Bosnia does not stem from contentment or optimism but from a peculiar position of distance, an objectivity rooted in alienation. They can talk about the improved security situation in Bosnia, they can talk about the economic recovery of Sarajevo, but that doesn't necessarily mean they see themselves anywhere in the picture.
"I am going to leave," Ines says flatly at one point. "I think now that the war is over everyone wants to be with their own people. The Serbs want to be with the Serbs and the Croats want to be with the Croats. I don't feel Sarajevo is my home anymore, so I will leave. I would like to go somewhere far, far away from ex-Yugoslavia."
But doesn't that mean the ethnic cleansers win?
"Of course," Ines shrugs. "But they have already won. They have already destroyed the country."
And despite his unpleasant memories of exile, Nedim, too, plans to leave Bosnia. "I feel I don't know anything about this place now," he says. "There were times when I thought this war could not go on, that they couldn't keep killing innocent people this way, but they did. So now I understand that anything is possible here. If I could, I would stay in Sarajevo, because everything I have is here -- my family, my friends -- and it is my home. But I want to create something for my future. I know it will be very hard to leave, but I think I must try."
It seems strange -- or perhaps not so strange at all -- that the only one who has doubts about leaving is the one who suffered the most by staying. As the others talk, Emir listens intently, scratching at the ground with a stick.
"This is such a hard question for me," he says finally, "because I think the best decision would be to go. But if I leave, what did I spend four years fighting for? Maybe if my family wanted to go, I would go, but they want to stay and I can't just leave them here. And I think for now the war here is over."
"But this is the Balkans," Nedim says, not so much to Emir as to the scenery, "and this is a place where there will always be war. So maybe for now it is O.K., but it will happen again. Because my grandfather was a refugee from war, then my father and then me. So I don't want my child to have a war, too. It is better to go and try to make some future in a place where this doesn't happen."
Nedim's words seem to touch something in Emir, as if he, too, suddenly imagines war as having natural properties, inevitable as rain.
"When that happens," he says, "then I will leave. I will take my family out of here, I will leave everything else, and I will say, 'To hell with Bosnia,' because I will not be a soldier anymore for them."
Ines has already picked out her preferred destination. "I want to go to America," she says, gazing out over the water. "One thing I like very much about America is that I think all the people there are so mixed. My feeling is that no one will ask me, 'Are you Croat, are you Muslim?' There it is safe because no one can find me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nedim Haveric in the basement storage cubicle where he and his family waited out Serb bombardments. (pg. 49); Ines Milunic, a Croat, dated a Muslim during the way, but his parents put a stop to it. (pg. 50); Emir Ganibegovic at the bunker above Sarajevo where he spent months fighting the Bosnian Serbs. (Photograph by Luc Delahaye/Magnum, for the New York Times) (pg. 53)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SARAJEVO; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE PUBLISHING (72%); POP & ROCK (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); ENGINEERING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); DENTISTRY (60%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, SCOTT NEDIM HAVERIC (94%); INES MILUNIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



167 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 23; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Sunday September 8, 1996: POLITICS;
Meet the Anti-Newt

 BODY:
I am a no-limits guy," says Michael Coles, Newt Gingrich's Democratic opponent for Congress. He's also an early-rising guy. It's 5:37 A.M. and Coles, a founder of the Great American Cookie Company, is pedaling a stationary bicycle in his home gym, watching CNN and monitoring his pulse. "If you're going to handle problems all day," he huffs, "it helps to start by doing something you know you can control."
Coles might be a lock if calorie-burning were enough to win elections. As it is, he's a down-but-not-hopeless underdog in the liveliest test case of the Democrats' favorite mantra: that Newt's perceived evils and the right sort of candidates (moderate on social issues, go-go on the economy) can win back some of the white voters who -- all over the country but especially in the South -- have gone Republican. Coles, who is flatly selling himself as the "anti-Newt," is an energetic millionaire who favors a balanced budget, modest tax cuts, choice on abortion and a "business approach" to governing. Even so, most observers figure Gingrich, who had a close call in 1990, will hang in just fine. Gingrich has raised twice as much money; his current district, Georgia's reconfigured 6th, is full of rich, white, ideological Republicans, unlike the old 6th, the Bubba-heavy enclave he represented in the 80's. 
 Coles will press hard and manic; a typical 15-hour campaign across suburban Atlanta ends at an evening reception at the home of Pat Orem, an affluent supporter. Coles is effective but Orem gives a telling reply when she's asked, What would the neighbors think? "I'll probably be tarred and feathered," she jokes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (84%); SIC2045 PREPARED FLOUR MIXES & DOUGHS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) GREAT AMERICAN COOKIES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); ABORTION (51%); 

PERSON: COLES, MICHAEL; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



168 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
A Call to Clear Pollution From Skies in the West

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ARE the great open vistas of the West becoming hazier, or clearer? When a haze descends, is it more likely to come from nearby vehicle traffic or from faraway factories and power plants? And what should be done to protect a resource as plentiful and as easy to waste as a skyful of emptiness?
For the past few years, the obscurely named Grand Canyon Visibility Transport Commission has been examining questions like these, and this summer the commission provided its answers. 
 Set up by Congress in 1990, the commission called for a far-reaching regional strategy to protect what are ordinarily the crystal-clear air and spectacular horizons of the Colorado Plateau.
Among the key recommendatons are aggressive steps to reduce the threat of air pollution wafting in on the wind, by encouraging energy conservation, solar and wind energy, electric and low-emission vehicles, and other new technologies.
Since Republicans gained control of Congress, Federal financing for these types of technologies has been a prime target of budget reductions. The report of the commission suggests that, quite aside from concerns about global climate change or unhealthy air, tourists' values could become another way of pushing the clean-energy agenda.
Most people who visit the Grand Canyon, Bryce Canyon, Zion and the area's other national parks and wilderness areas are able to look at the vivid panoramas without concern about air quality, since the region usually can boast some of the clearest air in the nation.
But for some visitors the horizon is closer than for others, because of air pollution: on days when the air turns somewhat hazy, the deterioration is readily apparent, just as a teaspoon of milk will turn the color of a cup of coffee.
"For years, I have watched in dismay as the awesome vistas of my childhood faded to a smoky haze," said Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, 58, who called the commission's recommendations "courageous."
Indeed, until the passage of the Clean Air Act in the 1970's, the air quality in the region was steadily worsening. Since then, it has gotten better, but on the worst days visibility is still noticeably impaired, and the commission's research suggests that in the decades ahead it could worsen as population growth and economic growth invade.
"Visibility in this region is extremely sensitive to even small increases and decreases in air pollution," the commission said in its report.
It noted optimistically that current Federal pollution control plans, including the latest tightening of the Clean Air Act's requirements, passed by Congress in 1990, should mean continued improvement in the region's air quality until the year 2000, especially in emissions of sulfur dioxide from utilities.
The problem is that economic growth in later years could bring pollution back up, and visibility back down.
Looking at four of the clearest areas at national parks in the region, the commission predicted there would be virtually no impairment of visibility from human-caused pollution on the "best" days for the foreseeable future -- all the way to the year 2040.
But on the "worst" days -- the 10 percent when visibility is at its worst -- the haze would be twice as bad in the year 2040 as it is on the worst days currently.
"This is particularly significant because the human eye is more sensitive to changes in the 'worst' visibility conditions than the 'best' conditions," the commission said.
Its goals for turning to solar, wind, and other novel sources of energy were very ambitious: renewable energy should supply 10 percent of the region's power needs by 2005, and 20 percent by 2015, it said. It cited the West's especially high potential for generating electricity from the wind and the sun.
Such technologies, it said, "have the potential to become some of the most successful and cost-effective solutions to improved visibility."
The panel also considered another obvious source of obscuring smoke: forest fires. One tool for fighting uncontrolled wildfires is to deliberately set controlled fires, but this has raised questions of whether the controlled fires are an unwelcome new source of smoke. The panel acknowledged that just as wildfires will always occur in the West, controlled fires are an appropriate prescription for dealing with them while reducing risks to people and property.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AIR QUALITY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); WIND POWER PLANTS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); WILDERNESS (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



169 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 13; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Kicks Up Its Heels

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER; BRUCE WEBER is a reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THERE may be no place on earth better to witness humans making the transition from day to night than lower Manhattan. It has, of course, a five o'clock image that is firmly entrenched in our collective consciousness -- the offices in the towers of finance emptying, hordes filling the narrow manmade caverns and commuters fanning out toward the channels of transportation that will take them elsewhere for the night. But what is less well-established is nonetheless so: Not everybody leaves at night.
Indeed, as I recently discovered during a week or so of twilight wanderings, Manhattan's nether limits, the triangular region of the island below Chambers Street, is full of people, emblematic New Yorkers included. The area is best known to visitors, of course, for the New York Stock Exchange and as the departure point for the Statue of Liberty (and maybe, for certain cognoscenti, the J & R Music World empire). 
 But there, one recent night, were Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt having publicity photos taken for their sitcom, "Mad About You," along the esplanade overlooking the Hudson River. Joggers, Rollerbladers, bicyclists (and tricyclists) happened by in numbers befitting a weekend in Central Park. And not far away, I ran across Frank Corkery, an 83-year-old former investment banker who now lives in Stuyvesant Town on Manhattan's East Side.
Mr. Corkery was dancing with his wife, Virginia, in front of Bowling Green, he tapping his aluminum cane on the cobbles, the two of them swinging their hips to the tune of "Hot! Hot! Hot!" performed by an electric guitar and steel drum band at a temporary open-air cafe.
"This band is great!" Mr. Corkery declared, adding the kind of hyperbole his own longevity warrants. "They never stop!"
Ultimately I was bound for dinner at Windows on the World, the 107th-floor dining room reopened in June after a three-year hiatus following the World Trade Center bombing. There, New Yorkers were less in evidence than tourists, but the perspective was worth sharing, even if the food -- fancy though not first rate -- wasn't. As in any new restaurant of ambition, the glitches will take a while to work out. The room is pretty and capacious, but why were the lights turned up so high? There was glare on the windows.
Then, too, there was a fog rolling in, which arrived before the entree. But during the appetizer, while the lights of the city were still spread out and glittering, there was a great treat. My table looked north, and uptown, just below me, was the Met Life blimp, lighted and floating through the air like a ghostly planet. Slowly, it crossed to the east, in front of the city's other historic skyscraper, blocking out a sliver of it for a moment -- a partial eclipse of the Empire State Building!
Some of the current activity in the area is a result of planning. It was in December 1994 that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's plan for a Lower Manhattan Business Improvement District was drafted, and it was signed into law by Gov. George E. Pataki last October. Managed by a newly created body, the Alliance for Downtown New York, the district now has its own sanitation and security forces and a free shuttle bus, which runs around in a loop. More than 5,000 new residential units are being created, many from former office buildings wedged deep in the financial canyon, which alliance officials believe will help them achieve their goal of a 24-hour neighborhood.
The alliance is behind a number of developments that have made the area more visitor-friendly -- the Sundown Cafe, for example, the Thursday-night-at-twilight event at which I met the toe-tapping Corkerys. The Sundown is an offshoot of Suspenders, a restaurant just up Broadway that has expanded into alley-like Thames Street, where you can have a twilight beer and a plate of nachos and watch the home- or elsewhere-bound crowds stampeding by from a safe distance.
 AMONG events being overseen or sponsored by the alliance this fall are the Brooklyn Academy of Music's presentation in Battery Park of the French equestrian and dance troupe called Zingaro; the first annual chowder festival in the South Street Seaport Marketplace, and, if the city approves, New York's first Blade-athon, an in-line skating event along the streets of lower Manhattan.
Adding depth to the new stuff is the old; this was Manhattan's first neighborhood, after all, and happily, three centuries of development have not obscured its history. The African Burial Ground, a playground-size greensward at Elk and Duane (just north of Chambers, actually) commemorates, in view of the Federal Court House on Foley Square, the discovery just five years ago of the remnants of a cemetery that held the remains of some 20,000 black men, women and children who died, enslaved, between 1626 and July 4, 1827, emancipation day in New York. And then there is the overwhelmingly dramatic architecture. Trinity Church, City Hall, the Brooklyn Bridge, Federal Hall at 26 Wall Street, where George Washington gave his inaugural address -- all are magnificent and rightly famous.
Fraunces Tavern on Pearl Street -- also famous, maybe not so magnificent -- was opened in 1763, as the Queen's Head Tavern by Samuel Fraunces, who later became Washington's chief steward. The bar's a safe bet; I've never eaten in the restaurant, but few recommend it.
"This place just reeks of George Washington," a customer at the bar said, though chances are he wasn't referring to the stuffed animal heads on the wall -- lions and antelopes and a rhino -- more reminiscent of Kenya than the United States.
Heritage Trails New York offers guided tours of the neighborhood daily, departing from the statue of Washington outside Federal Hall. Guides, judging from mine, Michael Emyrs, make an effort to be entertaining. The pockmarks in the Wall Street side of the Morgan Guaranty Trust, Mr. Emyrs pointed out, were a result of debris from an abandoned car that exploded on the street on Sept. 19, 1920. A particularly large gouge, he explained, was from the head of a woman who had the misfortune of walking by at the wrong moment. He also pointed out what he described as the best soft ice cream in the district -- at Allie's, on the Nassau Street pedestrian mall, at the corner of John Street.
Reservations are required for the tour, but you can also take a self-guided one, using Heritage Trail maps, available inside Federal Hall, just across the anteroom where foreign tourists sometimes stand on a podium, gesturing pedantically and posing for photographs, pretending to be the father of our country.
It's still true, of course, that if splendid isolation is your thing, lower Manhattan can be your place. Being in the concrete forest in the heart of the district is a lot like walking a vast corridor maze with high ceilings; nowhere else in New York is the sky so evidently a part of the ambiance. And within an hour or so of office-closing time, when the sun has vanished behind the walls of skyscrapers, leaving the city's oldest neighborhood in chilly shadow even on the longest, brightest days of summer, you can stand on Chase Manhattan Plaza alone in the company of "Four Trees," the towering, vaguely giraffe-like sculpture by Jean Dubuffet, and feel like a solitary art lover in a forgotten gallery.
Louise Nevelson Plaza is visible from there as well, with several of the sculptor's steel abstracts on display in the middle of the street, recalling an amalgam of insects and musical instruments. And in the Museum of the American Indian, part of the Smithsonian Institution housed in the 1900 Beaux-Arts Customs House at Bowling Green, chances are you will be a solitary art lover in a forgotten gallery. A shame it's so overlooked. The display of beaded and painted moccasins arranged to simulate a circle dance is worth a visit all by itself. You feel like you're window shopping at a fabulous Indian shoe store.
But mere blocks to the east, at South Street Seaport, the pubs are bustling in the vicinity of the historic Fulton Fish Market. You can have an early drink here and go to the ball game: the new ferry for Yankee Stadium departs at 6:10 from Pier 17 to head up the East River to the Bronx before each scheduled night game.
More activity rumbles to the west; Century 21, the discount department store on Cortlandt between Broadway and Church Street, seems to achieve its greatest hysteria after 5 P.M.; underdressed for a reservation at the Hudson River Club, I stopped in looking for a sports jacket, but ended up with a belt. (Fortunately, the restaurant, an elegant but, as it turned out, unpretentious place, didn't stand on ceremony.)
And continuing west, I walked through the lingering farmers and the remnants of the farmer's market that takes place Tuesday and Thursday on Church Street in front of the World Trade Center plaza, marveling at the idea of such fresh vegetables and such tall buildings in such proximity to each other. At the base of the towers, dozens of people who must work inside were bunched along the building wall, smoking.
But the hub of activity is across the highway, on the esplanade along the river, and particularly on the plaza around the boat basin behind the World Financial Center. To get there I walked by one of the more delectable anomalies in the area, the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church, a four-story building that sits literally in the shadow of the World Trade Center in the middle of a parking lot, its spic-and-span beige and white wall unmarked but for a small stenciled plea -- "Please no graffiti: this is a church."
From there I took the enclosed walkway over the highway (West Street, actually) and passed through the Financial Center's indoor mall. Here and underneath the World Trade Center is a mammoth below-ground economy, dizzyingly mazelike and crowded, like some kind of retail-oriented Atlantis. Emerging from the center's glassed-in atrium -- which, with its palm trees and view of the tethered yachts bobbing in the shallow water, feels more like Santa Monica than Gotham -- a steady parade of colorfully-dressed exercisers careered around the angles of the plaza. Those moving south disappeared down the esplanade toward a distant free jazz concert whose arpeggios were discernible from where I was; those moving north passed the dock for the commuter ferries bound across the Hudson for Hoboken.
On the plaza, Moran's, the drink ery, with its scads of outdoor tables, was full of young Wall Streeters, jabbering, flirting. It was a Thursday, head-start night for the weekend. A woman in her 20's in a silk blouse and a tight skirt sat at a table with three young men, smoking perhaps the fattest stogie I'd ever seen. Hoots of laughter were in the air; so was the hum of recreational wheels on pavement, and the occasional toot of a boat horn. The sun, a red, half-dollar size disk, was disappearing into New Jersey, and appropriate commentary was thoughtfully provided. In bronze lettering along the fence that rims the water are quotations from Frank O'Hara, extolling the city's busyness -- "I can't even enjoy a blade of grass unless I know there's a subway handy, or a record store, or some other sign that people do not totally regret life."

THE Hudson River Club is above Moran's; I entered from the outside entrance, on the plaza, rather than from inside the Financial Center. Its second-floor windows provide a glorious sunset view of the river, and for a while I sat at the bar, over the largest bowl of mixed nuts I've ever seen, watching the Statue of Liberty seem to wave in the distance.
Dinner there was a civilized meal -- reasonably delicious without being frou-frou -- a repast suitable for the contemplative setting. The yachts swayed in the boat basin. The river darkened. Night came down on lower Manhattan; the neighborhood quieted. Work would begin as usual in the morning.
 
From esplanade to seaport
 
Food and Drink
Windows on the World, 1 World Trade Center, 107th floor, (212) 938-1111. Open Monday to Thursday, 5 to 10:30 P.M.; Friday and Saturday, 5 to 11:30 P.M.; Sunday, 5 to 10 P.M.. Dinner for two with wine is about $175.
Hudson River Club, 4 World Financial Center, (212) 786-1500. Lunch Monday to Friday, 11:30 A.M. to 2:30 P.M.; dinner Monday to Saturday, 5 to 9:30 P.M.; Sunday brunch, 11:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M. Dinner for two with wine about $150.
Fraunces Tavern, 54 Pearl Street, (212) 269-0144. Restaurant open Monday to Friday, 7 to 10 A.M., 11:30 A.M. to 4 P.M., and 5 to 9:30 P.M.; bar 11:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M.
Sundown Cafe, Bowling Green, (212) 786-3696. Thursdays through September, noon to 10 P.M.
Sightseeing
 Heritage Trails New York, Visitor Information Center, Federal Hall, 26 Wall Street, (212) 269-1500. Open 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. daily. Walking tours daily from 9 A.M. to 3 P.M. Reservations required: (888) 487-2475. Tours are $14, $7 for children age 7 to 12, under 7 free. A new walking tour of George Washington's New York starts Sept. 19.
National Museum of the American Indian, Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green; (212) 668-6624. Open every day 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. and until 8 P.M. on Thursday. Admission free.
Fall Events
 The Alliance for Downtown New York, (212) 566-6700, is sponsoring several events. The French equestrian and dance troupe called Zingaro will perform under a big top in Battery Park from Sept. 17 to Oct. 27.
A chowder festival in the South Street Seaport Marketplace takes place on Oct. 12.
And a Blade-athon, an in-line skating event through lower Manhattan, has been tentatively scheduled for 11 A.M. on Oct. 20.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rollerblading along the esplanade at Battery Park City. South Street Seaport. Farmer's market on Church Street near Trade Center. Performers entertain people waiting for Ellis Island ferry. (pg. 13); Room with a view: The Hudson River Club. (Susan May Tell for The New York Times) (pg. 20)
 
Map of Manhattan showing the locations of various points mentioned in the article. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: J & R MUSIC WORLD (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (88%); RESTAURANTS (86%); MUSIC (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (68%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (66%); 

PERSON: HELEN HUNT (55%); PAUL REISER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



170 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2589 words

HEADLINE: FRUGAL TRAVELER;
Learning To Love The Sawtooths

BYLINE: By SUSAN SPANO

 BODY:
PEOPLE who love mountains often become captivated with a particular chain. As a child, I bonded with the Front Range of the Colorado Rockies, scrambling among the mountains crowded around the town of Estes Park with my family for two weeks, 10 summers in a row. Even though I've since seen the volcanoes of Hawaii and the Chilean Cordillera, the ideal mountain to me is still Longs Peak, or Twin Sisters, or Flattop -- all peaks in the Front Range's unmatched skyline.
 So when I first caught sight of another Rocky Mountain chain, the Sawtooths in central Idaho, I was not immediately impressed. After all, they are not as high as the Colorado Rockies, or as dense -- though 40 Sawtooth peaks top 10,000 feet, fencing off the western rim of a high, dry valley 35 miles long, drained by the meandering Salmon River. Nor do they lie within the boundaries of a national park (as the Front Range does); rather, they (along with the White Cloud and Boulder Mountains across the valley) are contained within the 756,000-acre Sawtooth National Recreation Area and the 219,000-acre Sawtooth Wilderness, administered by the United States Forest Service -- which allows diversifed uses in the Recreation Area, like logging, mining, snowmobiling, mountain biking, and motor-boating on some of the region's 1,000 lakes. Over the years there have been efforts to create a national park in the Sawtooths, but they have met with no success -- chiefly because, as a number of people who live there told me, Idahoans want to keep these mountains to themselves. 
 Initially, that didn't seem like such a tragedy to me. Of course, I was in a less than appreciative mood, having arrived in Boise (130 miles to the southwest) by train on a July morning at 5:30; by 6 I'd rented an economy class Hyundai Accent (from Alamo at the Boise Airport, for $166 a week), and was driving into the mountains very fast, because I had a 9 o'clock appointment with an appaloosa named Larry.
 Larry came fourth in line on a two-day Mystic Saddle Ranch pack trip (for $263, including meals, tents, and the services of three young cowboy guides), behind a mud-brown horse named Luke who kept snitching grass along the eight-mile trail from Pettit to Toxaway Lake. The sky was a perfect plate of blue, the sun shone bright, and I felt like taking a nap. Larry wouldn't have minded, or probably even noticed. But there were too many things to look at, like delicate shooting stars, wild purple lupines and lady-slippers blooming in little patches of meadow; snowmelt-swollen waterfalls; dangerous-looking talus fields; and the runneled face of 10,651-foot Snowyside Peak abutting the reflecting glass surface of milelong Toxaway Lake.
 I'm not sure when it was that I came to love the Sawtooths -- certainly not that first afternoon as mosquitoes attacked our camp on the boulder-studded west end of Toxaway Lake (these big, hungry bugs bit through T-shirts and long johns, and had a particular affinity for my wardrobe, mostly New York City black). Nor was it when one of the cowboys said to me, in all innocence, "Nothing I've heard or read about the East makes me want to go there." And it definitely wasn't when the two other couples on the pack trip, both from Boise, started talking about hunting, guns, Las Vegas and their opposition to highway speed limits.
 But I started warming up to the place around suppertime, when Nick Borchert -- a cowboy and an architecture student at the University of Idaho in Moscow -- cooked me a large, rare steak, with boiled Idaho red potatoes, salad, and lemon poppyseed cake. I have no recollection of the next nine hours, except that I spent them in a tent on soft grass by the lake, cocooned within a sleeping bag. As is my wont, I got up at 6, doused myself with Cutter's, and walked around looking at birds, chipmunks, fish jumping in the lake, and the cold campfire, where no coffee was perking yet. So back into the bag I went, with the rising sun shining on my head through the tent netting.
I hardly ever get this kind of second sleep. And when I arose again around 8 to a breakfast of homemade cinnamon buns, bacon, coffee, and scrambled eggs with cheese and elk pepperoni (provided by one of the Boise hunting couples), it troubled me only a little that someone had shot an elk to get the pepperoni. Nor did I pity the five mules who carried our gear (each could handle a 200-pound load, I was told). And I came to like my traveling companions, political differences and all.
Beyond that, I'd bonded with the Sawtooths, which seemed a wholly admirable range to me now, at once awe-inspiring and inviting, with 750 miles of trails waiting for me to hike, frigid lakes to swim, a wide-open uncrowded feeling, and the chain's jagged-edged signature written in granite across the sky. Besides Snowyside, the fissured summits of the Sawtooths include Parks Peak (10,208 feet) over Farley Lake, McGown Peak (9,860 feet) above Stanley Lake, Grand Mogul (9,733 feet) cinching in the southwest side of Redfish Lake, and bloated Williams Peak (at 10,635 feet) lording it over the little Sawtooth Valley town of Stanley.
 At one point during the ride back to the Pettit Lake trailhead, Nick said, "Clear blue skies get to you after a while." As if to please him, the heavens turned black, releasing a torrent of rain and hail. Still we pushed on, huddling under a lodgepole pine to eat lunch while watching a small brown mouse keep dry in the rotting corpse of a tree.
 If you've done a bit of hiking and know that a peanut butter sandwich can taste as good as pate de foie gras on the trail, then you will appreciate how I felt at the rain-drenched end of the pack trip, when I checked into a $48 room above the dining hall at Redfish Lake Lodge, which sits at the north end of five-mile-long Redfish Lake.
 Room No. 10, which tended to be noisy at mealtime, had a double bed, a water view, durable carpeting, two chests of drawers and a corner sink, with shared toilets and showers across the hall. But it was deluxe to me, starting with the shower, followed by a plate of Idaho rainbow trout for $10, a glass of Columbia Crest Chardonnay for $3.50, and another long sleep -- interrupted at about 1 A.M., when I made a trip to the bathroom and locked myself out. Only the bartender downstairs was still awake, but he crawled out a second-floor window and across the porch roof to enter my window and let me back in.
 The rustic old lodge surrounded by cabins is staffed by college students (who get room and board along with summer work) and favored by wholesome-looking families. In the morning, little girls were turning cartwheels on the lawn in front of the lake, and little boys were catching minnows at the edge of the pier. I took a cruise on the lodge's shuttle boat (for $5) in the company of a group of backpackers headed into the mountains from a dock at the far end of the lake, and then set out hiking myself, taking a trail that started near the lodge and followed the top of the moraine that lines the west side of Redfish Lake, about four miles to the Bench Lakes, decorated with yellow waterlilies.
I intended to take a shortcut on the way back by picking my way down to the shuttle dock and catching the boat to the lodge. But on the dock I met a woman from Boise, waiting for her husband to swing by with their motorboat, and got to talking with her about the differences between the East and the West -- which sometimes seem unbridgeable, I feared. But when her husband showed up in advance of the shuttle, she took a nice first step by giving me a lift.
 RAIN set in again at about the time I stashed my backpack in the trunk of my rental car, so I decided to sample the area's indoor entertainments by stopping at the Sawtooth Fish Hatchery (admission free) to see endangered Chinook and sockeye salmon fingerlings fattening up on high-protein food pellets -- providing the energy reserves they'll need to make the incredible 900-mile journey downriver to the Pacific Ocean, only to turn around several years later and swim back up again to spawn in the Sawtooth rivers and lakes of their birth.
 At the little Stanley Museum (also free), near the intersection of Highways 75 and 21, I learned that humans have made amazing journeys in and around the Sawtooths, too -- like the Hudson's Bay Company trapper and explorer Alexander Ross, who got his first look at the valley in 1824, from the south pass at Galena Summit. In 1864, Captain John Stanley climbed into the Sawtooths to discover gold on Valley Creek, followed by pack trains of grizzled miners, Basque shepherds and homesteaders -- who gravitated for comfort and amusement to the rough-and-tumble settlement of Stanley at the north end of the valley.
 Three blocks long and two blocks wide, with ramshackle wooden buildings and an unpaved main street called Ace of Diamonds Avenue, Stanley can't have changed much since then -- even though it now has a grocery store, several Salmon River outfitters, a few motels and cabin compounds and four restaurants.
 I had a French dip sandwich and a dish of delicious blackberry cobbler (for $8) at one of these restaurants -- at the Sawtooth Hotel and Cafe (not to mention book and quilt store), where I also checked in for two nights. My little plywood-walled room (again above the dining room) had a nice old-fashioned bureau with a mirror, clean towels on a rack, and a log-frame double bed (there were eight such rooms along the hall, with two toilets and showers at the end). Actually, the accommodations weren't substantially different from those at the Redfish Lake Lodge, but the Sawtooth was quainter somehow, cheaper (at $27 single occupancy a night) and quieter -- because only breakfast and lunch were served downstairs. At dinnertime I strolled down Ace of Diamonds Avenue, past the post office, laundromat, and a gift and tackle shop, to the Kasino Club, where the TV was tuned to the Olympics and a barbecued pork chop with corn on the cob and a big Idaho baked potato cost about $8.
 Like the salmon fingerlings, I needed fortification for a trip down the Salmon River the next morning with a company called White Otter (for $55), in an inflatable raft seating six -- an outdoorsy family of four from Boulder, Colo., me, and our guide, Lynette Andrews, who looked too young to get a job as a baby sitter. But she knew the river from Sunbeam Village (about 10 miles east of Stanley on Highway 75) to Torrey's Hole, 8 miles down, like the back of her unlined hand. In masterly fashion she piloted us through two Class III rapids -- the short Piece of Cake and the long, boiling Narrows. When the river ran tranquil, she shook things up by turning the raft in a chain of 360's. Little Sarah from Boulder had ostrich eggs for eyes, and seated in front, paddling for dear life, I got soaked through.
 Afterward, I bought a ham-and-cheese sandwich at the Sunbeam General Store (for about $3), picnicked by the Sunbeam Dam, built to power a mining mill around 1910 but blasted out 24 years later to encourage salmon migration, then drove 12 miles north along the dirt road that parallels the Yankee Fork of the Salmon River to tour the ghost town of Custer City -- a lonely little hamlet that boomed in the gold rush days around the turn of the century, when it had 600 residents, a dentist, four saloons, and its own Chinatown.
 On the way back to Stanley, I started thinking about dirty clothes, packing, and all the things I had to do when I returned to Boise the next day. But then I found one of the many hot springs that line the Salmon River -- this one about a quarter of a mile east of Lower Stanley, with a runnel of scalding water feeding into the icy river.
 Some benevolent soul had built a square wooden tub and placed it beside the river, with jury-rigged pipes leading from the spring to serve as the hot spigot; the cold spigot was a large plastic bucket that bathers filled from the river. So it required a little muscle to get the temperature just right. But once it was, I had the best soak of my life, surrounded by a mural of cloudless sky, bending pines, mountainsides and circling hawks. Maybe my gray matter was leaking out, but I couldn't remember anything like this in the Colorado Rockies.
 
The bottom line
 
 Besides the $263 I paid for the pack trip and $55 for the raft trip, I spent an average of about $66 a day while in the Sawtooths, with $37 of that for accommodations.
Getting There
 For $416 I bought an air-rail package from Amtrak's Great American Vacations, (800) 336-9244, including train travel from Denver to Portland on the Pioneer (allowing up to three stops on the way), air fare from Portland back to Denver on United and trip protection insurance.
 I flew from Washington, D.C., to Denver and from Denver to Newark on Continental, (212) 319-9494, for $273.
 In Boise, I rented an economy-class Hyundai Accent from Alamo, (800) 327-9633, for a week at $166 with an A.A.A. discount, including unlimited mileage. The distance from Boise to Stanley is 128 miles; in all I spent about $20 on gas.
The Outdoors
 Mystic Saddle Ranch, Stanley, Idaho 83340, (208) 774-3591, fax (208) 774-3455, offers short rides from Redfish Lake Corral and Galena, hunting and fishing trips and two- to five-day pack trips into the Sawtooth Wilderness. The two-day Highlight Pack Trip costs $263, including camping gear, horses, meals and the services of several cowboy guides. Sleeping bags can be rented for $25.
 White Otter Outdoor Adventures, 411 Leadville Avenue, Post Office Box 2733, Ketchum, Idaho 83340, (208) 726-4331, has full-day and half-day Salmon River trips, leaving from Sunbeam Village (about 10 miles east of Stanley on Highway 75), in oarboats, paddle rafts and inflatable kayaks. The half-day trip includes a snack and costs $55. The number for the Sunbeam office is (208) 838-2406.
Places to Stay
 There are excellent campgrounds throughout the national recreation area, with fees from $11 to $20 a night. To make a reservation, call the National Forest Reservation Center, (800) 280-2267.
 Redfish Lake Lodge, Post Office Box 9, Stanley, Idaho 83278, (208) 774-3536, has duplex and single cabins from $96 to $232 (sleeping four to eight); motel rooms (sleeping four) for $79 and $112; and 10 rooms on the second floor of the lodge, sharing showers and toilets, for $48 to $52.
 The Sawtooth Hotel and Cafe, Post Office Box 52, Stanley, Idaho 83278, (208) 774-9947, has eight rooms above a cafe and bookstore, sharing two showers and two toilets. The rates are $27 single occupancy, $30 double. The hotel also has motel-style rooms with private baths for $45 to $60.
Places to Eat
 The Sawtooth Cafe serves breakfast and lunch only, in downtown Stanley at the west end of Ace of Diamonds Avenue; (208) 774-9947.
 Redfish Lake Lodge serves breakfast, lunch and dinner, with views of Redfish Lake; (208) 774-3536.
 The Kasino Club is at 21 Ace of Diamonds Avenue in Stanley, serving dinner only, from 6 to 10; (208) 774-3516.
Information
 For visitor information about the Stanley area, contact the Stanley- Sawtooth Chamber of Commerce, Post Office Box 8, Stanley, Idaho 83278; (800) 878-7950 or (208) 774-3411.
 Information about the Sawtooth National Recreation Area is available from S.N.R.A. Headquarters, Star Route, Ketchum, Idaho 83340, (208) 726-7672, or the Stanley S.N.R.A. Ranger Station, HC 64, Post Office Box 9900, Stanley, Idaho 83278, (208) 774-3681.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The pier at Redfish Lake Lodge in Stanley, Idaho. Breaking camp at Toxaway Lake on the Mystic Saddle Ranch tour. The Sawtooth Hotel and Cafe, in Stanley. (Photographs by Susan Spano) (pg. 6); The author's $27 room at the Sawtooth Hotel and Cafe in Stanley. (Susan Spano) (pg. 26)
 
Map of Idaho showing the location of Sawtooth National Recreation Area. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FRONT RANGE BEVERAGE CO (65%); COLORADO ROCKIES (91%); COLORADO ROCKIES (91%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (91%); COLORADO ROCKIES (91%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); FOREST SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); BOISE, ID, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NATIONAL PARKS (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (73%); LAKES (73%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%); SNOWMOBILING (66%); WINTER SPORTS (66%); TRAINS (62%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (56%); CYCLING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



171 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Westport;
New Role, at Long Last, For a Many-Sided Barn

BYLINE: By BESS LIEBENSON 

 BODY:
FINALLY, on July 21, after 10 long years of what often seemed a never-be-done effort, the fully restored Bradley-Wheeler Cobblestone Barn opened. The seven-sided (with octagonal roof) cobblestone building, tucked behind Wheeler House, the Westport Historical Society's headquarters, stands as one of the only structures of its type in Connecticut.
At one time, with the circa-1850 barn in danger of collapsing, doubt existed that it could be salvaged at all. Then came the decision to restore it (rather than remodel or shore up) and problems proliferated. Aside from the physical challenges posed by the building, money -- even in artistic-minded Westport -- was difficult to raise. 
 "The restoration began as part of the fact that it is on the National Register of Historic Places and we were aware that it was an unusual building," said Eve Potts, a former vice president of the historical society's board of directors, author of "Westport . . . A Special Place" (published by the Historical Society in 1985), and a member of the barn committee.
Mrs. Potts, along with Barbara Van Orden and Joan Dickinson, lead the process of getting the barn project completed. "As one of the only octagonal cobblestone barns in the state, we knew it had to be handled with special care," Mrs. Potts said.
From its falling-apart state, with roof caving in and walls crumbling, the barn was painstakingly and authentically nurtured back to its former glory under the supervision of Westport restoration architect Robert T. Gault.
In the beginning, there were grants from the Connecticut Historical Commission and the Connecticut Economic Development Commission. Then came seed money from Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward, among others. But it never seemed to be quite enough. And last September, Ms. Dickinson, president of the Historical Society for several years and involved with the house and barn from the beginning, died of cancer. As Mrs. Potts recalled, "Her death spurred renewed motivation to get this job -- that she had been involved with -- done. We started to get donations in her memory."
To bring attention to the former carriage barn and make it the focal point of the historical society and downtown Westport, a living museum of the history of Westport was created within. The soaring three-level space traces Westport's past and present from its Indian roots through its agricultural, maritime, industrial and suburban years. Westport residents Naiad and Walter Einsel, graphic artists and sculptors, working with Mrs. Potts and Ms. Van Orden, researched, conceived and executed the interior design.
The barn's two doors stretch 9 feet tall and form an welcoming arch. Outside, dominating a small greensward and facing the barn, two contemporary folk art figures also bid welcome. When the colorful kinetic sculptures are activated, Uncle Sam, created by Walter Einsel, whose work also is shown at the A.T.&T. Building at Epcot Center, raises his hat; his eyes light and an alarm goes off. With Naiad Einsel's Statue of Liberty, both eyes and a torch light up and a heart pulsates.
Inside a sign announces the museum's dedication to Joanne Woodward and to the memory of Joan Dickinson. Just beyond, an eight-sided ceiling dominates, wood lathe and plaster rising to a cathedral dome. "At one point, there was discussion of doing a full floor upstairs, which would have masked off the ceiling," Mrs. Einsel pointed out. Fortunately, visitors can now peer through the atmospheric rafters to the crowning dome.
The exhibition is arranged chronologically on two floors. Tinted mural-size blowups of historic settings, some poetic scenes that have vanished along with modern-day replacements, are augmented with artifacts set against the cobblestone walls. "The way it is arranged, the exhibit does not encroach on the integrity of the building," Mr. Einsel said. "It lets the building be itself."
There is also an underground root cellar decorated with a stored harvest, reached through a hatch door in the museum or an outside staircase in back of the barn.
The exhibition ends with "Two Views of Westport: Past and Present." "Though many of our links with the past have vanished forever," Mrs. Potts said, "future change depends on recognizing our uniqueness and guarding, guiding and protecting our heritage."
The Westport Historical Society, 25 Avery Place in Westport, is open Tuesday through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. The Bradley-Wheeler Cobblestone Barn is open Wednesday and Saturday from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. Further information is available by calling 222-1424.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Uncle Sam and Ms. Liberty, created by Walter and Naiad Einsel, salute the Bradley-Wheeler Cobblestone Barn, above. The restored barn reopened this summer and is home to displays, left and right, by the Westport Historical Society. (Photographs by Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WESTPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTPORT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BARNS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (75%); VISUAL ARTS (74%); WRITERS (67%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); 

PERSON: LIEBENSON, BESS EVE POTTS (84%); WALTER EINSEL (72%); BRADLEY-WHEELER COBBLESTONE BARN (62%); JOAN DICKINSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



172 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 76; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 4749 words

HEADLINE: THE ANNOTATED CALENDAR;
FILM

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
Here is a selective guide to coming cultural events in New York and beyond. Events that are starred are those that Times critics consider particularly noteworthy. Unless indicated otherwise, all dates listed are for openings, all addresses are in Manhattan and all telephone numbers have a 212 area code. Addresses for locations in New York City cited more than once appear on page 80.
 
September
 
"AMERICAN BUFFALO" David Mamet's verbally charged 1975 play about losers planning a pawnshop heist stars Dustin Hoffman, Dennis Franz and Sean Nelson. Friday.
 
"BROTHER OF SLEEP" Joseph Vilsmaier ("Stalingrad") directed this dreamlike romantic drama about miraculous musical powers found in an isolated Alpine village in the early 1800's. With Andre Eisermann. In German, with English subtitles. Friday.
 
"FEELING MINNESOTA" Two brothers (Keanu Reeves and Vincent D'Onofrio) fall in love with the same woman (Cameron Diaz) in this darkly comic love story. Friday.
 
"FLY AWAY HOME" Call it "Canadians Who Run With the Geese." Carroll Ballard ("The Black Stallion" and "Never Cry Wolf") directed this story of a Canadian artist (Jeff Daniels) and his daughter (Anna Paquin) who teach geese to migrate. Friday.
 
"GRACE OF MY HEART" The odyssey of a Carole King-like singer-songwriter (Illeana Douglas) from the Brill Building to the shores of Malibu. The music business has always been box-office poison. This one will have to be really good to break the jinx. Allison Anders ("Gas Food Lodging") directed. Friday.
 
"RICH MAN'S WIFE" Halle Berry plays a woman who gets into trouble over an idle comment that her husband should be killed. Fri.
 
"DADETOWN" The late Russ Hexter directed this scathing portrait of a town trying to keep up with economic change. Sept. 18.
 
* "BIG NIGHT" In the spirit of "Babette's Feast," this small, luminous comedy, set in the 1950's and directed by Stanley Tucci and Campbell Scott, portrays Italian immigrant brothers of opposite temperament who put on a feast for Louis Prima (never seen) in a last-ditch effort to save their failing restaurant. The setting is the New Jersey Shore, and the food looks scrumptious. With Tony Shalhoub and Isabella Rossellini. Sept. 20.
 
"THE FIRST WIVES CLUB" A trio of movie divas -- Bette Midler, Goldie Hawn and Diane Keaton -- are angry women (dumped by their successful husbands for younger, trophy wives) who take comic revenge on their exes. Ivana Trump, an expert in such matters, puts in a cameo appearance. (But can men take the joke? To quote an old Midlerism, mud will be flung tonight.) Sept. 20.
 
"LAST MAN STANDING" Bruce Willis in a remake, set in the 1930's, of Akira Kurosawa's 1961 samurai masterpiece, "Yojimbo." Walter Hill directed this film, which has a near-record body count for any movie not involving the crash of a jumbo jet. Sept. 20.
 
"MIZOGUCHI" A major retrospective offilms by the great Japanese director Kenji Mizoguchi (1898-1956), including "Ugetsu" and "The Story of Last Chrysanthemums." For five weeks at Film Forum, beginning Sept. 20.
 
"SURVIVING PICASSO" This Merchant-Ivory film focuses on the painter's relationship with the artist Francoise Gilot. Anthony Hopkins's Picasso is a manipulative, faithless, penny-pinching egomaniac. Sept. 20.
 
"CURDLED" A woman, obsessed with murder, gets work at a "forensic cleaning service." Don't ask. With William Baldwin. Sept. 27.
 
"EXTREME MEASURES" Cuddlesome Hugh Grant gets very serious as he plays an idealistic doctor in a New York hospital who discovers a sinister research program being conducted in secret. Its mastermind (Gene Hackman) is a renowned physician who uses homeless people as guinea pigs. Directed by Michael Apted, this thriller moves from the emergency room to the catacombs below Grand Central Terminal. With Sarah Jessica Parker. Sept. 27.
 
* THE 34TH NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL
Among the foreign films are two biggies from Cannes, Mike Leigh's "Secrets and Lies" and "Breaking the Waves," by Lars von Trier. Also on the schedule from France are Andre Techine's "Voleurs" ("Thieves"), Jacques Audiard's "Self-Made Hero," Maurice Pialat's "Garcu," Arnaud Desplechin's "How I Got Into an Argument . . . (My Sex Life)," Raul Ruiz's "Three Lives and Only One Death" and Olivier Assayas's "Irma Vep." Home-grown offerings include Richard Linklater's "Suburbia," Billy Bob Thornton's "Slingblade" and the closing-night film, "The People vs. Larry Flynt," directed by Milos Forman. Sept. 27 through Oct. 13.
 
"TWO DAYS IN THE VALLEY" The murder of an ex-husband brings together some angst-ridden residents of the San Fernando Valley. Iceman James Spader gets even chillier. Sept. 27.
 
* "SECRETS AND LIES" Mike Leigh exposes the soul of English working-class life in this drama of a 27-year-old black woman who finds her birth mother (Brenda Blethyn) only to discover that she is a lonely white factory worker living with a hostile grown-up daughter. When the black woman is introduced to her white extended family, suppressed hostilities erupt. The ensemble acting, led by Ms. Blethyn's dithering, tearful performance, has the documentary accuracy that makes you forget that it's only a movie. Sept. 28.
 
 
October
 
"BOUND" A mobster's mistress (Jennifer Tilly) and a thief (Gina Gershon) form a romantic relationship and plot Sapphic revenge: they conspire to steal $2 million of the mobster's money. Oct. 4.
 
"INFINITY" Matthew Broderick directed and stars in this tragic love story about the scientist Richard Feynman, who metamorphoses from nerd to nuclear physicist and marries a beauty (played -- surprise! -- by Mr. Broderick's companion, Sarah Jessica Parker). Oct. 4.
 
"SMALL WONDERS" This true story of a violin teacher in Harlem (previously titled "Fiddlefest") was nominated for an Oscar in 1995 for best documentary. Oct. 4.
 
"THAT THING YOU DO!" It's 1964, and the Wonders, a rock group from Erie, Pa., are blazing up the pop charts with a homemade single. Tom Hanks, who makes his directing debut, both wrote the script and plays a tough, cynical record-company executive (no more Mr. Nice Guy). The movie remembers the last innocent days of the tacky pop world that big-time rock blew away. With Liv Tyler. Oct. 4.
 
"TO GILLIAN ON HER 37TH BIRTHDAY" In this movie, directed by David E. Kelley and based on the Off Broadway play by Michael Brady, Peter Gallagher plays a widower who is still grieving for his wife (Michelle Pfeiffer). Oct. 4.
 
"THE PROPRIETOR" The legendary Jeanne Moreau as a French novelist, living in New York, who returns to Paris. Directed by Ismail Merchant. Oct. 9.
 
"THE CHAMBER" John Grisham's novel has been turned into a film about a condemned murderer (Gene Hackman) and his lawyer grandson (Chris O'Donnell). Oct. 11.
 
"THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS" Mi-

chael Douglas and Val Kilmer star in the true story of a hunt for lions that massacred 130 people in Africa a century ago. Oct. 11.
 
"THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT" A housewife (Geena Davis) recovers from amnesia to find that she is a secret agent. Renny Harlin directed. It has to be better than the couple's "Cutthroat Island." Or does it? Oct. 11.
 
"LOOKING FOR RICHARD" Al Pacino conceived, directed and appears in this all-star, much anticipated investigation into the title character of Shakespeare's "Richard III." The movie was well received at Sundance and Cannes and should be a feast for Shakespeare buffs and "Godfather" fans alike. Oct. 11.
 
* "MICHAEL COLLINS" Neil Jordan directed this sweeping historical drama about the Irish struggle for independence from Britain. Liam Neeson plays the charismatic title character who led the victorious fight and went on to alienate many of his comrades by negotiating an independence treaty that allowed the British to continue controlling Northern Ireland. Mr. Neeson creates a stormy portrait of a warrior with pacifist longings. Alan Rickman plays Eamon de Valera, Collins's canny ally turned vicious enemy. A subdued Julia Roberts is the woman loved by Michael and by his best friend (Aidan Quinn). Oct. 11.
 
"MICROCOSMOS" A documentary about bugs. The word of mouth on this one gives new meaning to the term "buzz." Oct. 11.
 
"THREE LIVES AND ONLY ONE DEATH"
Marcello Mastroianni plays four roles in this surreal fantasy by the Chilean experimental film maker Raul Ruiz. A cineaste's Rubic cube. Oct. 11.
 
"TREES LOUNGE" Steve Buscemi wrote, directed and stars in this comedy about an aspiring comic turned auto mechanic. Where else but on Long Island? Oct. 11.
 
"GET ON THE BUS" Spike Lee gets political again with this feature film about 15 African-American men who set out from Los Angeles for the Million Man March in Washington. With Ossie Davis, Charles S. Dutton and Andre Braugher. Oct. 16.
 
"ED'S NEXT MOVE" In this romantic comedy written and directed by John Walsh, a Midwesterner plays cherchez la femme in New York. Oct. 18.
 
"EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU" "Mighty Aphrodite," with its prancing Greek chorus line, found Woody Allen with one foot planted happily in musical comedy. In "Everyone Says I Love You" he dips in the other, for a film whose score consist of the pop standards he loves. With Goldie Hawn and Julia Roberts. Mr. Allen wrote, directed and stars. Oct. 18.
 
"THE GRASS HARP" The screen version of Truman Capote's 1951 story has a promising cast -- Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon, Sissy Spacek and Piper Laurie. Charles Matthau (the star's son) directed. Oct. 18.
 
"JUDE" Christopher Eccleston and Kate Winslet ("Sense and Sensibility") star in this version of Thomas Hardy's bleak classic "Jude the Obscure." Bring Prozac. Oct. 18.
 
"SLEEPERS" Barry Levinson's film adaptation of Lorenzo Carcaterra's controversial best seller has a high-powered cast (Brad Pitt, Kevin Bacon, Robert De Niro and Dustin Hoffman). But can this macho revenge fantasy, set in the past at a reform school and in the present in a courtroom, transcend the story's lack of credibility? Oct. 18.
 
* "SWINGERS" The directorial debut of Doug Liman could be a sleeper hit. This small, modish film set in contemporary Los Angeles follows the lives of four 20-something show business aspirants who chase women (referred to, like everyone else, as "babies") and try to live the high life on a downscale budget. Jon Favreau, who wrote the script, plays a sad-sack stand-up comic in the dumps since his breakup with his girlfriend. A good deal of the comic soul-searching takes place in retro-style lounges where the spirit of Dean Martin lives on. Oct. 18.
 
"WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S ROMEO AND JULIET" The Australian director Baz Luhrmann ("Strictly Ballroom") made this modern version of the Shakespeare play, filmed in Mexico and set in an "otherworld, neither future nor past." (What do they call the Sharks and the Jets in this place?) With Leonardo DiCaprio and Claire Danes, kiddy star power personified. Oct. 18.
 
"THE ASSOCIATE" In this Wall Street comedy, Whoopi Goldberg plays dual roles, getting in touch with her inner male in one of them. With Dianne Wiest. Oct. 25.
 
"THE FUNERAL" Christopher Walken and Chris Penn star in a 1930's New York gangster story, directed by Abel Ferrara. Meaner than mean. Oct. 25.
 
"PALOOKAVILLE" Winner of the award for best first film at the 1995 Venice Film Festival, "Palookaville" follows three bumbling New Jersey hoods who botch a heist. Oct. 25.
 
"STEPHEN KING'S THINNER" When an obese lawyer (Robert John Burke) accidentally hits an old Gypsy woman with his car, she retaliates with a curse: he will lose weight. With Joe Mantegna. Oct. 25.
 
"TWELFTH NIGHT" Trevor Nunn directed this Shakespeare comedy with Helena Bonham Carter as Olivia, Richard E. Grant as Sir Andrew Aguecheek, Nigel Hawthorne as Malvolio, Ben Kingsley as Feste and Imogen Stubbs as Viola. A gleeful, cross-dressing romp. Oct. 25.
 
"WHEN WE WERE KINGS" A documentary hit from Sundance about the 1974 Muhammad Ali-George Foreman fight in Zaire. Oct. 25.
 
"THE WAR AT HOME" Echoes of "Born on the Fourth of July" run through this drama, set in Texas in 1972, of an embittered Vietnam veteran celebrating Thanksgiving with his conservative family. Emilio Estevez directed and stars. Kathy Bates and Martin Sheen offer harrowing performances as embattled parents who sweep emotional conflict under the rug until it explodes. Oct.
 
 
November
 
"LE HUITIEME JOUR" A film, directed by Jaco van Dormael, about a businessman (Daniel Auteuil) who befriends a retarded man (Pascal Duquenne). Audiences at Cannes were divided about the movie, but the two actors jointly won the prize for best actor. Nov. 1.
 
"LARGER THAN LIFE" Bill Murray inherits an elephant. With Janeane Garofalo ("The Truth About Cats and Dogs") and hunk-of-the-moment Matthew McConaughey. Nov. 1.
 
"MAD DOG TIME" A mob boss (Richard Dreyfuss) gets out of a mental ward and tries to put his underlings in line. With Ellen Barkin, Jeff Goldblum, Burt Reynolds and Gabriel Byrne. Nov. 1
 
* "MOTHER NIGHT" Finding a cinematic language for Kurt Vonnegut's comic vision of a world that has lost its moral bearings is not easy. But the director Keith Gordon tries to come close in the screen adaptation of the 1973 novel. Nick Nolte plays an American spy who infiltrates the Nazi hierarchy and becomes a Third Reich hero for his anti-Semitic radio lectures, which contain coded messages to the Allies. Only later does he wonder whether the evil he promoted on the radio outweighed his accomplishment as a spy. The movie lurches wildly between surreal comedy and intense romanticism. With Alan Arkin and David Strathairn. Nov. 1.
 
* "THE PEOPLE VS. LARRY FLYNT" The story of the Hustler magazine publisher Larry Flynt suggests Horatio Alger run amok in a supermarket tabloid world and proves yet again that truth can be stranger than fiction. Directed by the virtuoso Milos Forman, the film portrays Flynt (Woody Harrelson) as a monstrously vulgar truth teller who fights for free speech and journalistic integrity and damn the consequences. The courtoom scenes in which Flynt goes ballistic, flings obscenities and dumps bags of money onto the floor reenact (verbatim) what actually happened. Mr. Harrelson gives a tumultuous, snarling performance as the embattled publisher, and Courtney Love plays his stripper wife. Nov. 1.
 
 
"UNHOOK THE STARS" Nick Cassavetes directs his mother, Gena Rowlands, who plays a widow beginning a new life. With Gerard Depardieu and Marisa Tomei. Nov. 1.
 
"CHAMPAGNE SAFARI" A film about the life and high times of a French rogue capitalist in America that won the Canadian Oscar for best documentary of 1995. Nov. 8.
 
* "THE ENGLISH PATIENT" "The Singing Detective" meets "Lawrence of Arabia" in a World War II epic adapted from Michael Ondaatje's award-winning novel. As a European aviator who was severely burned in a plane crash drifts in a morphine haze, his life flashes before him. This broad mosaic of images meshes into a lush romantic drama of adultery, deception and espionage that makes a point about people being helpless pawns to history. Ralph Fiennes is the flier who sneers at romantic possessiveness until he falls madly for the wife of a colleague (Kristin Scott Thomas). Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Thomas, who is English upper-class heat personified, aim to light a romantic fire worthy of "Dr. Zhivago." A secondary love story involves the aviator's Canadian nurse (Juliette Binoche) and a Sikh Lieutenant (Nuveen Andrews) who defuses bombs. Anthony Minghella directed. Nov. 8.
 
"HYPE" A 90-minute documentary from Sundance that chronicles the history of Seattle grunge, with interviews and performances by Soundgarden, Pearl Jam and Nirvana. Nov. 8.
 
"RANSOM" Ron Howard, who has created such touchy-feely films as "Parenthood" and "Cocoon," directed this thriller about a New York tycoon (Mel Gibson) whose son is kidnapped. With Rene Russo as his wife and a screenplay by Richard Price, this looks hot. Nov. 8.
 
"ALBINO ALLIGATOR" Kevin Spacey makes his directorial debut in yet another drama about a heist gone wrong. With Matt Dillon, Faye Dunaway and Joe Mantegna. Nov. 15.
 
* "BREAKING THE WAVES" Winner of the grand jury prize at Cannes, "Breaking the Waves" is a tearful three-hour drama of an emotionally unstable young woman (Emily Watson) with a saintly heart who falls to pieces after her husband is paralyzed. When he suggests that she begin sleeping with other men and describing the experiences to him, she becomes both a sexual martyr and the shame of her puritanical Scottish village. The Danish director Lars von Trier has given this tragic story a supernatural twist. And it's a Christian allegory, to boot. Nov. 15.
 
"DAYLIGHT" Disaster time. The survivors of an explosion that seals off a commuter tunnel in New York struggle to escape. Sylvester Stallone leads the way. Nov. 15.
 
"JOSEPH CONRAD'S 'SECRET AGENT' "
Bob Hoskins and Patricia Arquette star in a Victorian drama based on the Joseph Conrad novel. Directed by Christopher Hampton, of "Carrington" fame. Nov. 15.
 
"I'M NOT RAPPAPORT" In Herb Gardner's adaptation of his Broadway play, Walter Matthau and Ossie Davis play the famously cranky park-bench pals. Nov. 15.
 
"THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES" Barbra Streisand produced, directed and stars in the story of a Columbia University professor's makeover from plain to gorgeous. With Jeff Bridges, Lauren Bacall and a heavy feminist subtext. Nov. 15.
 
"SPACE JAM" The hot new movie buddies: Michael Jordan and Bugs Bunny. Nov. 15.
 
"JINGLE ALL THE WAY" Arnold Schwarzenegger gets cute again. Hollywood's biggest action toy plays a man who tries to buy his son the Christmas season's biggest action toy. Nov. 22.
 
"NIGHTWATCH" Nick Nolte stars in a suspense thriller about an innocent law student (Ewan McGregor, from "Trainspotting") who becomes the prime suspect when people start dropping dead. Nov. 22.
 
"SHINE" What is the line between genius and madness? Scott Hicks, an Australian director, takes a refreshingly playful view at the subject. Geoffrey Rush portrays the real-life piano prodigy David Helfgott as an adorable, babbling maniac recovering his sanity and musical gift after a crackup. If the movie clicks, expect a run on recordings of Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3, referred to throughout "Shine" as the "Rach 3." Nov. 22.
 
* "SLINGBLADE" Billy Bob Thornton wrote, directed and stars in the latter-day Southern Gothic story of a man released from a mental hospital 25 years after committing a double murder. Mr. Thornton (who wrote "One False Move" with Tom Epperson) creates a portrait of a slow-witted misfit with a ferocious moral sense who is trying to make his way in the small town where he grew up. His unlikely friendship with a young boy and his widowed mother is challenged when her abusive boyfriend (Dwight Yoakam) expels him from the house. Nov. 22.
 
"STAR TREK: FIRST CONTACT" Patrick Stewart captains the eighth episode. Nov. 22.
 
*"THE CRUCIBLE" Nicholas Hytner directed this adaptation of Arthur Miller's play. With Daniel Day-Lewis, Paul Scofield, Joan Allen and Winona Ryder. With its high-class credits, it looks as if it's just about Oscar ready. Nov. 27.
 
"THE DEVIL'S OWN" Harrison Ford is a New York police officer who unwittingly takes an agent of the I.R.A. (Brad Pitt) into his home. Alan J. Pakula directed. If the movie can transcend its much-reported script problems, it may be a hit, given its pair of appealing leading men. Nov. 27.
 
"101 DALMATIANS" Glenn Close camps it up as the villainous Cruella De Vil in a live-
action update of the popular 1961 animated film. With Jeff Daniels, Joely Richardson and Joan Plowright. Nov. 27.
 
"RIDICULE" A hit at Cannes, this French film imagines the court of Louis XVI as a nest of vipers obsessively sharpening their verbal scalpels. With Fanny Ardant. In French, with English subtitles. Nov. 27.
 
 
December
 
"THE SUBSTANCE OF FIRE" Daniel Sullivan directed this screen adaptation of Jon Robin Baitz's moving play about a Holocaust survivor and publishing magnate (Ron Rifkin) who clashes with his three grown children. With Timothy Hutton, Sarah Jessica Parker (who was in the play Off Broadway with Mr. Rifkin) and Tony Goldwyn. Dec. 6.
 
"CITIZEN RUTH" Alexander Payne wrote and directed this comic satire about a pregnant woman caught in the middle of the abortion debate. With Laura Dern, Swoosie Kurtz, Mary Kay Place and Burt Reynolds. Dec. 13.
 
"JERRY MAGUIRE" Tom Cruise plays a cocky (is he ever anything else?) sports agent who is fired and must start again from scratch. Directed and written by Cameron Crowe. Dec. 13.
 
* "MARS ATTACKS!" The antidote to the comic-book solemnity of "Independence Day." This science fiction farce, directed by Tim Burton, is based on the Topps collector cards and comic books about nice people who battle aliens from Mars. Jack Nicholson plays the dual roles of President and a sleazy Las Vegas entrepreneur. Glenn Close is a Nancy Reagan-like First Lady, and the Martians are little green men with nasty tempers. With Annette Bening, Pierce Brosnan, Sarah Jessica Parker, Michael J. Fox and, yes, Tom Jones. Dec. 13.
 
* "MARVIN'S ROOM" Jerry Zaks, one of Broadway's most successful directors, moves into film with this adaptation (by John Guare) of Scott McPherson's acclaimed Off Broadway play. Diane Keaton, in what may be her greatest role, plays a leukemia patient visited by her sister (Meryl Streep) and two nephews (Leonardo DiCaprio and Hal Scardino), hoping that one will prove a compatible bone marrow donor. The film confronts such realities as sibling strife and the responsibility for aging parents. With Hume Cronyn, Gwen Verdon and Robert De Niro. Dec. 13.
 
"BEAVIS AND BUTT-HEAD DO AMERICA"
MTV's grunting cartoon cretins finally make it to the big screen. Dec. 20.
 
"THE GHOSTS OF MISSISSIPPI" Based on Myrlie Evers-Williams's and William Peters's book "For Us, the Living" and directed by Rob Reiner, this film about the civil rights movement focuses on the effort to bring Byron De La Beckwith (James Woods), the murderer of Medgar Evers, to justice. Its hot-
button issues still provoke. With Alec Baldwin and Whoopi Goldberg. Dec. 20.
 
*"THE ICE STORM" Kevin Kline and Sigourney Weaver survive infidelity and wife swapping in Connecticut. The film is based on Rick Moody's novel, which one review called the " 'Pulp Fiction' of Cheever country." Ang Lee directed. Dec. 20.
 
* "LA CEREMONIE" The French master Claude Chabrol is in fine form directing what begins as the gentle story of a shy young housekeeper adjusting to her new employers. It gradually turns into a creepy study of madness, alienation and murder, as the housekeeper (Sandrine Bonnaire) is befriended by a sociopathic local postal worker (Isabelle Huppert). Charles Manson's women meet Genet's "Maids." In French, with English subtitles. Dec. 20.
 
"THE PREACHER'S WIFE" Penny Marshall's remake of "The Bishop's Wife" stars Denzel Washington as an angel who helps a disillusioned minister (Courtney B. Vance) and his wife (Whitney Houston) rebuild a church. Gospel singing galore. Dec. 20.
 
"ROSEWOOD" John Singleton directed this drama based on the true story of a Florida town that was burned to the ground in a 1923 racial incident. After "Higher Learning" and "Poetic Justice" this is Mr. Singleton's chance to get back on track. Dec. 20.
 
"THE EVENING STAR" The long-awaited sequel to "Terms of Endearment" is a tear-jerking family saga that finds Aurora Greenway (Shirley MacLaine) as a feisty great-grandmother trying to control her grown-up grandchildren. Between its cat fights and death scenes, it tries hard to churn up the suds. Robert Harling wrote and directed this adaptation of Larry McMurtry's novel. With Bill Paxton, Juliette Lewis, Miranda Richardson and, briefly, Jack Nicholson. Dec. 25.
 
* "EVITA" At last. Alan Parker directed and Madonna stars in the Andrew Lloyd Webber-Tim Rice rock opera about Eva Peron, the wife of the Argentine dictator who died in 1952 at the age of 33. Clearly, Madonna's best (and probably last) shot at major movie stardom. Jonathan Pryce is Juan Peron, and the smoldering Antonio Banderas is Che Guevara. Dec. 25.
 
"HAMLET" Kenneth Branagh directed and stars as Hamlet but, we believe, did not write the original play. An all-star cast. Dec. 25.
 
"IN LOVE AND WAR" Chris O'Donnell is the 19-year-old Ernest Hemingway and Sandra Bullock is his World War I nurse Agnes von Kurowsky. Richard Attenborough directed. Oh, nurse! Dec. 25.
 
"MICHAEL" Nora Ephron directed John Travolta in this comedy about a smoking, drinking, womanizing archangel living in Iowa tracked down by two tabloid journalists. With Andie MacDowell and William Hurt. Angels in the real America. Dec. 25.
 
"THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD" A love story about the creator of Conan the Barbarian, (Vincent D'Onofrio) and a young woman (Renee Zellweger). Directed by Dan Ireland, a founder of the Seattle Film Festival. Dec. 25.
 
* "THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY" High expectations surround Jane Campion's take on Henry James's classic. Nicole Kidman plays Isabel Archer, James's headstrong protagonist. But will Ms. Campion's hallucinatory film style match James's 19th-century characters? With John Malkovich and Barbara Hershey. Dec. 27.
 
"SOME MOTHER'S SON" Directed by Terry George and set in Northern Ireland in 1981. Helen Mirren plays a pacifist mother whose son is imprisoned for I.R.A. activities, then goes on a hunger strike. This could be "In the Name of the Father" (which Mr. George wrote with Jim Sheridan), Part II. Dec. 27.
 
"DONNIE BRASCO" Johnny Depp is an F.B.I. agent who infiltrates the Mafia, and Al Pacino is his unsuspecting mentor. Directed by Mike Newell. Dec.
 
"MOTHER" Gentler than his usual films, Albert Brooks's comedy finds him playing a science fiction writer who moves back home with his widowed mother (Debbie Reynolds), the better to understand his problems with women. Mr. Brooks is his charmingly abrasive self, and Ms. Reynolds's elfin, eccentric mom turns out to be not half as dotty as she first appears. Dec.
 
"NIGHT FALLS ON MANHATTAN" Sidney Lumet returns to a theme -- corruption in New York's criminal justice system -- that has served him well in the past. With Andy Garcia, Richard Dreyfuss and Lena Olin. Dec.
 
 
January
 
"ANGEL BABY" An Australian movie about two schizophrenics in love that was a cult favorite at Sundance.
 
"FIERCE CREATURES" Fred Schepisi directed this comedy involving the London Zoo and many of the same actors involved in the wacky "Fish Called Wanda," including John Cleese, Kevin Kline and Jamie Lee Curtis.
 
"SUBURBIA" Richard Linklater directed this drama, adapted from Eric Bogosian's scathing play, about a local rock star's return to the neighborhood 7-Eleven.
 
 
February
 
"ABSOLUTE POWER" Clint Eastwood directed and stars in this film about a thief who witnesses a murder. With Gene Hackman, Ed Harris and Judy Davis.
 
"GROSSE POINTE BLANK" A professional hit man (John Cusack) attending his high school reunion learns that the father of his old sweetheart is his next target. With Minnie Driver, Dan Aykroyd and Alan Arkin.
 
"INVENTING THE ABBOTTS" Based on Sue Miller's short story, with all the hot young things (Liv Tyler, Billy Crudup, Joaquin Phoenix).
 
"LIAR, LIAR" Money, money. Jim Carrey as a pathological liar.
 
"ONE FINE DAY" Michelle Pfeiffer as a single mother who falls in love with a co-worker (George Clooney).
 
"PRIVATE PARTS" Based on Howard Stern's book. (And they should stay private.)
 
"STAR WARS" The rerelease.
 
 
March
 
"CON AIR" A former Army ranger (Nicolas Cage) is on a plane hijacked by a master criminal (John Malkovich).
 
"CRASH" David Cronenberg's film, with James Spader, Rosanna Arquette and Holly Hunter, was a succes de scandale at Cannes, and its sex scenes earned an NC-17. Will it be too raw for American audiences?
 
"DANTE'S PEAK" Pierce Brosnan plays a volcanologist who predicts a catastrophic eruption. The first of an imminent tsunami of volcano movies.
 
"THE VAN" Stephen Frears's follow-up to "The Commitments" and "The Snapper." With Colm Meaney.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Juliette Binoche in "The English Patient," opening in November. (Phil Brav/Miramax); Jack Nicholson and Glenn Close star in Tim Burton's "Mars Attacks!," opening in December. (Bruce Talamon/Warner Brothers); John Malkovich and Nicole Kidman in Jane Campion's "Portrait of a Lady." (Jurgen Teller/Gramercy Pictures); Tony Shalhoub, left, Stanley Tucci and Marc Anthony in "Big Night," opening on Sept. 20. (John Clifford/Rysher Entertainment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); SONG WRITING (69%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN ANNA PAQUIN (79%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); HALLE BERRY (58%); JULIETTE BINOCHE (58%); NICOLE KIDMAN (50%); BRUCE WILLIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



173 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 71; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/ARCHITECTURE;
A Promise of Refuge, Aloft and Afield

BYLINE: BY HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
ARCHITECTURE TODAY OFFERS FLASHES OF HOPE and inspiration against a background of deepening unease. Their profession still economically pinched, many architects are feeling as if they themselves are down for the count. And their art form is particularly vulnerable to the perils of "the risk society." No sector of society is safe from system collapse, and buildings can seem like metaphors for a psychological shelter that is increasingly out of reach.
The season's two major exhibitions, both opening in October, offer breathers from the troubled world of buildings. In Montreal, the Canadian Center for Architecture will present "Viewing Olmsted: Photographs by Robert Burley, Lee Friedlander and Geoffrey James," a survey of designs by Frederick Law Olmsted, the pioneer of the American parks movement. Commissioned specifically for this show, the pictures of these three master photographers probe the changing meaning of Olmsted's work in the contemporary cityscape. 
 The Art Institute of Chicago will offer "Building for Air Travel: Architecture and Design for Commercial Aviation." Presented within an installation by Helmut Jahn, architect of the excellent United Airlines terminal at O'Hare International Airport, the show will explore airport design, airplane interiors and airline corporate imagery. It's a tribute to the industry that has conquered gravity and realized the age-old dream of flight.
In a lighthearted moment, these shows might seem, by turns, utopian and glamorous. In the wake of recent airline disasters and brutal assaults in Olmsted's parks, they are more likely to provoke discussion of the relationship between our blissful dreams of space and movement and the nightmares that periodically engulf them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Green Acres -- A Lee Friedlander photograph of a beech tree in an Olmsted park in Boston, to be shown in October. (Canadian Center for Architecture/Lee Friedlander); Friendly Skies -- On a China Clipper, circa 1935, from the Art Institute of Chicago homage to air travel. (University of Miami Library, Coral Gables)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (70%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN CENTER FOR ARCHITECTURE (MONTREAL); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN CENTER FOR ARCHITECTURE (MONTREAL); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (86%); ILLINOIS, USA (86%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (70%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (68%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT HELMUT JAHN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



174 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 41; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3715 words

HEADLINE: SCORES COUNT

BYLINE: By Sara Mosle; Sara Mosle is a contributing writer for the Magazine.

 BODY:
TO HIS STUDENTS, Michael A. Johnson is a little like one of those slightly overbearing parents -- the kind who is always packing off his kids to private schools and tutors or Stanley Kaplan courses to make sure that they get into an Ivy League college. The principal and founder of the Science Skills Center, a three-year-old public high school at the base of the Manhattan Bridge in Brooklyn, Johnson -- that's Mr. Johnson to you and me -- is physically and spiritually imposing. At 45, he has closely cropped hair, a thin mustache, big round glasses and an irrepressible laugh, and typically greets his students in the hallways with an enveloping bear hug.
Although many of his students come from impoverished neighborhoods like Bedford-Stuyvesant, East New York and Oceanhill-Brownsville, Johnson has no qualms about pushing them to overachieve. Last spring, for instance, he had his ninth graders take the P.S.A.T.'s -- for fun. The tests, which are normally administered in a student's sophomore or junior year, determine who will win National Merit Scholarships, and Johnson, who is black, wanted his students, many of whom are also black, to have the same sort of extra help and practice that kids from more affluent backgrounds often groan about and take for granted. 
 "The day we got the scores back," he brags, "the kids were running around saying, 'What did you get? What did you get?' One of them told me: 'I'm upset, Mr. Johnson! I only got 1100!' " -- out of 1600. "And I said: 'Give me a break! You got two years to work on that score!' That told me a lot about the school."
Just what it says, however, is open to interpretation and is part of a far larger debate over "national standards" and the very purpose of public education. New York City has been the scene of a burgeoning school-reform movement that represents the biggest expansion of the city's school system in more than half a century: some 60 new public schools have been created in the last few years by various philanthropic and community organizations and the Board of Education.
With its emphasis on standardized tests, the Science Skills Center is an anomaly among these new schools, and Johnson something of pariah within the reform movement. "A lot of these groups are supporting a single model of school reform," says Beth Lief, president and chief executive of New Visions for Public Schools, an organization in Manhattan that works with the private sector and the Board of Education to promote school reform and that has created 22 new schools to date, including Johnson's. She is referring to an approach that focuses on the way students learn, not on what they learn. Most progressive educators regard standardized tests as a backward, even discriminatory tool for assessing performance and push for methods like "portfolios," compilations of students' classwork that are graded individually without reference to national standards or norms.
"A lot of people in the school-reform community aren't really interested in seeing Michael succeed," says Eric Nadelstern, a principalin-residence at New Visions last year. "And he doesn't have a lot of friends in the school system, either. He came from outside the system, and people at the Board of Ed put a lot of stake in working your way up and paying your dues, which he didn't do." Frank Volpicella, the Brooklyn high-school representative for the United Federation of Teachers, remarks: "I'm not a big fan of Mr. Johnson's. I don't think he's going in the right direction." Even Nadelstern says, "I respect what Michael is doing, but I've got a problem calling it school reform."
J OHNSON'S ACADEMIC PROGRAM IS DRIVEN BY THE NEW YORK STATE Regents exams, a series of achievement tests that students can elect to take to demonstrate mastery in several core academic subjects like English and chemistry. Students who pass eight of the exams receive what's known as a Regents diploma, which is a little like graduating summa cum laude; only some 20 percent of the city's 30,000-plus high-school graduates achieve this distinction each year. While the majority of the city's neighborhood public high schools offer a watered-down curriculum -- basic algebra year after year, for example -- Science Skills requires all of its 650 students to take the kind of advanced-placement classes in history, science and math that one typically finds in the better private schools. In an effort to beef up academic standards, the State Board of Education has announced that passing the Regents will be a requirement for graduates in all schools within two years, but many progressive educators have denounced the move as condemning poor, minority-group children to failure.
The Board of Education grades its own schools mainly by looking at attendance, dropout rates, number of violent incidents and students' scores on minimal-competency exams. To judge by these criteria, Johnson's school can be described as wildly successful. Its attendance rate is 94 percent; no one has dropped out; last year, despite a sudden increase in violent incidents throughout the city's school system, Science Skills did not report a single altercation. And although all of Johnson's students come from the city's open lottery system, all of them, even those designated as special-education students, take his Regents program and are passing, which requires a score of 65 percent. This is in contrast to a school system where half of all entering freshman fail to meet even the minimum requirements to graduate in four years. Even Johnson's critics concede that he has created a rigorous academic climate at the school.
Parents are evidently pleased: the Science Skills Center has received three times as many applications as any other New Visions school. If this isn't school reform, what is? "To my mind," insists Nadelstern, "school reform involves rethinking what students learn and how they should learn it, not just pressing kids to pass exams."
Such fundamental disagreement over the very purpose of school reform goes to the heart of what Lisa Delpit, a black educator and author, describes as a growing rift between black and white progressive educators. Delpit, who won a MacArthur "genius" grant in 1990, is the Deborah Tannen of school reform, explaining to many white educators why "you just don't understand." In "Other People's Children: Cultural Conflict in the Classroom," published last year, Delpit argues that many of the most cherished tenets of school reform of the last 20 years -- that the open classroom is "the most 'humanizing' of learning environments," that children should be "in control of their own learning," that a focus on skills like basic grammar and spelling will "stifle students' writing" -- actually don't serve all students equally well.
Delpit contends that because many poor, minority-group students are socially and economically cut off from mainstream society, they need explicit instruction in the skills that will help them get past what she calls the "gatekeeping points" -- the S.A.T.'s and job interviews -- that guard the gateway to the middle class. Without those skills, she argues, such students will never succeed in American society, no matter how smart they are.
Delpit quotes a black teacher as saying: "These people keep pushing this fluency thing. . . . They ought to read some of the rap songs my students write. . . . Our kids are fluent. What they need are the skills that will get them into college. I've got a kid right now -- brilliant. But he can't get a score on the S.A.T. that will even get him considered by any halfway decent college. He needs skills, not fluency. . . . I'm sick of this liberal nonsense."
Johnson agrees: "Many times students receive this 'alternative' and 'experimental' stuff, but it's supplemented outside of the school setting. Our parents don't have the resources to give their children this extracurricular -- what is really curricular -- training. So we have to make sure that they get it in school."
Johnson, like Delpit, isn't against portfolios per se, but he worries that subjective standards too often let educators off the hook when African-American and Hispanic students fail to perform well on tests. "We can develop a bunch of internal criteria for what we think a high-school student should be able to know," he says, "and that might mean repeating the A B C's. My definition of portfolios, I can promise you, is not the same as other people's. Their definition might be to get a little display board and slap some things up there. Schools need to be held to some minimum levels of conceptual and behavioral objectives that they can demonstrate."
Last March, at the National Education Summit, President Clinton, Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, and business leaders endorsed the creation of "national standards." Goals 2000, Clinton's education initiative, has provided money to individual states to create tough criteria for advancement in schools, and in August, the A.F.T. released its annual report on states' efforts to raise academic standards in English, math, science and social studies; it found that only 15 states have established "standards in all four core subjects that are clear, specific and well-grounded in content." (The A.F.T. judged New York's curriculum guides as satisfactory in science, barely satisfactory in English and math and unsatisfactory in social studies.) Although most politicians and pundits call for creating tough academic standards in schools, an odd alliance of liberals and conservatives has emerged to do battle with the standards movement. Liberals don't like national standards because they don't like anything standardized, and conservatives don't like them because they want schools to remain under local control.
Johnson represents a new hybrid of school reformer. Like many progressive educators, he is concerned with social justice, but like many conservatives he believes in a back-to-basics curriculum. Many reformers continue to view the schools as agents of social change -- they'll change the world by changing the children who attend them -- but Johnson wants to prepare his students for the world that already exists. He observes: "Parents at my school have some very fundamental questions: Can my kid read? Can my kid add the grocery bill? Can my kid go to college? Some of my colleagues want to duck those questions and say, 'They're not important.' But we can't just say that we don't believe in measuring our kids against kids in other parts of the city or state, because colleges are making decisions based on those comparisons. Employers are making decisions based on those comparisons. Sources of college financing are making decisions based on them, and I have to make sure that my students are competitive. I'm dealing with what is. Harvard is still looking at scores, so that's what I'm going with." Changing the world, he implies, should be left to adults.
J OHNSON GREW UP IN BROOKLYN, WAS BUSED TO A predominantly white high school and graduated from Empire State College with a degree in science education. He got his start in teaching when he decided to create an after-school science and math program for neighborhood kids in a Crown Heights storefront. He had been the only black person at a Manhattan engineering firm and was discouraged by the paucity of African-Americans in the profession. "I saw it as a volunteer thing," he recalls. "It was 'ooh-ah' science -- all projects and experiments and stuff."
His Science Skills Center began as a Saturday afternoon program and was soon attracting young people from all over the city. Before long, Johnson had won a $2 million grant from the National Science Foundation to run his program full time. He was still running it in 1991 when Naomi Barber, who heads the New Visions program, started sending out requests to community leaders and educators for proposals for new schools. "Johnson just had press on the street like nobody else," she remembers. Barber pushed Johnson to apply; he received one of the 16 start-up grants from the Fund for New York City Public Education.
At New Visions' request, he took a crash course in school administration at Bank Street, the progressive school of education in Manhattan, "Oh, it was very New Visiony!" he says, getting up from his chair and dancing from side to side, holding hands in an imaginary circle.
Johnson looks out of place in the crepe-soled world of school reform. He still dresses in dark suits, white starched shirts and occasionally suspenders. He is the first to admit that his school is not a democracy, and this is the attitude that puts him at odds with many progressive educators in the country who insist that kids should have a significant say in what and how they learn.
"I'll give kids choices within the context of decisions that informed adults make in this building," says Johnson, "but are we going to vote on whether or not they're going to learn math? No. My friends ask, 'How will kids learn democracy if they don't practice it?' And I say, 'They can read the papers!' " He chuckles and adds: "I'm glad that I had teachers who forced me to take subjects that I thought were irrelevant. Young people want to know that there's something stable in their lives, someone who's going to say, 'Look, take physics.' 'Why are we taking physics? You can graduate with just chemistry.' 'No, trust me: take physics.' They want someone to give them direction."
Johnson's unapologetically autocratic style has angered some adults. Two years ago, a white teacher accused him of refusing to let her participate in the grading of her students' Regents' exams and of then misgrading them to try to drive her from the school. She claimed Johnson's actions were racially motivated, and she later transferred out of the school. (Johnson has largely inherited his staff from the Board of Education, through seniority rules. Almost all the teachers are African-American.) The Board of Education investigated and discovered that sure enough, Johnson had graded the exams too harshly. But Doris Gonzalez-Light, a spokeswoman for the Board of Education, says: "We've looked into allegations of improprieties but we found that these were minor errors in one instance in the administration of a social-studies test and that the integrity of the Regents exams was not compromised. We feel that there's no need for any more action involving Mr. Johnson."
Joyce Coppin, the superintendent of high schools for Brooklyn, says the errors were innocent. "A lot of the newer schools have had ups and downs," she adds, "but in terms of student achievement, the Science Skills Center is doing a lot better than a lot of other schools in the same category."
Beth Lief concedes that Johnson is sometimes "impatient with the bureaucracy and with the process of shared decision making," but if Johnson is overzealous at times, as I suspect he is, it may be partly because he distrusts a school system that he feels has failed poor black and Hispanic students for so long.
Despite the controversy surrounding Johnson, he continues to enjoy the kind of institutional support from New Visions that many principals in the city can only dream about. As Lief says, "we're not interested in creating cookie-cutter schools." At a time when schools are becoming grossly overcrowded, Johnson has managed to get a spacious new building, equipped with state-of-the-art science labs and computers.
What immediately strikes a visitor to the school is the obvious and apparent ease of the students. Many other public schools in the city are deafening: students shout at one another as they career through the hallways; teachers often try to shout over the din and end up screaming at one another and at the students. In all the time that I was at Science Skills, I didn't hear a single person -- student or adult -- raise his or her voice. Calm reigned. In a physics class -- there are about 25 kids in each class -- students helped their teacher solve a complicated algebra problem on the board. Kids raised their hands eagerly. Everyone took notes and followed along in their textbooks.
This atmosphere is what attracted Dianna Sexton, an African-American mother of three who lives in Brownsville and works at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to the school. Previously, Sexton had sent her youngest daughter, Tasha, to a private Christian academy in Brooklyn and had expected to send her to a private high school. But Tasha was so impressed by the students from Science Skills that she met at a high-school fair that Sexton was moved to change her plans.
"Mr. Johnson knows every student by name," she says. "If you miss two days, he's at your house. In a lot of schools you walk in and there are metal detectors. But not at Science Skills. He believes that children should know how to behave." In a school poll conducted last spring, students cited "school safety" as the No. 1 reason they liked the school. Johnson has a strict dress code as well, one that essentially bans most accessories -- baseball caps, dangly earrings, Walkmans -- and untied sneakers.
His more progressive peers regard such measures as repressive and reactionary. Johnson is particularly out of step with them on school violence: whereas many educators find the notion of permanently suspending kids unfair, particularly to poorer, minority students, Johnson -- like many black parents whose children actually attend violent schools -- is much less tolerant. "I don't believe in minority rule, and I'm not talking about South Africa," he says flatly. "I'm talking about 1 or 2 students' being able to stop the education of 30, 32 kids."
Johnson even offers his students classes in what he jokingly calls Manners 101. "We go to formal restaurants," he explains, "and we talk about the silverware: what does each piece mean? We teach them how to be comfortable in an uncomfortable situation. I don't want my kids coming back to me and saying: 'Mr. Johnson, you didn't tell us that we had to go to work on time. You didn't tell us that you couldn't tell off your boss, that you have to dress a certain way.' "
Sexton sometimes worries about the pressure on her daughter but she says: "Tasha's learned how to relax. Mr. Johnson says, 'Don't you dare give her any slack.' " Indeed, a few students seemed fairly uptight about grades and test scores, but as Naomi Barber at New Visions says, "Poor kids should have the right to be depressed, stressed-out overachievers if they want to be." And most of the students I spoke to expressed gratitude for not having to hide the fact that they were smart.
Billydee Flynn entered Science Skills when it opened three years ago and is now in the 12th grade. He is tall, with closely cropped hair, and the day I met him he was wearing a rugby shirt and belted khaki pants; he could have easily posed for a Ralph Lauren ad. Flynn lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant with his mother, who is on welfare. When he entered Science Skills, he was reading far below grade level. Within a single year, he went from the 26th percentile to the 85th on the citywide reading test. "That first year was tough," he says. "Mr. Johnson was always on my case. Teachers here are more dedicated. In other schools, you don't get much homework. I worked really hard to pass my Regents tests last year, and all that homework really helped. I did well, and it was like the reward after the race. I'm now taking physics, and some of the problems are college level, and they are an insult to my intelligence!" He laughs with gleeful arrogance.
Johnson also provides the kinds of connections that more affluent parents can offer their children. "Mr. Johnson knows lots of people," Flynn says, "and he hooked me up with different summer jobs, working at a hospital with an orthopedic surgeon. The internships, they open up your mind. You experience things you wouldn't otherwise."
Cambria Smith, a 10th-grade student, also lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant with her mother, who's divorced. She describes her junior high school as rowdy and unchallenging and says she heard about Science Skills from a cousin who attended the school. When I ask her if she misses her friends from junior high, she replies: "I didn't want them following me. I told all my friends, 'Goodbye!' I was ready to meet new people, have different experiences. People here are academically successful. I like that.
"They aren't ashamed to be smart. My book bag is really big. I've got so many books! We have so much work, sleep is rare. But it's good that it's so challenging. We learn how to think."
Johnson tries to stay as focused as his kids. "There's a lot of activity that happens outside a school, and I can't get involved in it," he says. Lief suggests that the qualities it takes to start a school in a system so resistant to change (qualities like bullheadedness) may not always be the ones for keeping a school going. "Ideally," she says, "I'd like to see Johnson leave Science Skills in a few years and start another school just like it."
A single question, Johnson says, guides all of his educational decisions: "Would you want this for your child?" To Naomi Barber of New Visions, it's the question that all school reformers should be asking themselves. "There isn't a privileged parent that I've ever met who doesn't ask for enrichment in the school," she observes, "and they also invest incredibly in outside enrichment programs -- in classes and tutorials and dance lessons for their children. And those parents will still drill their kids for the S.A.T.'s; they'll pay thousands of dollars for tutoring. But in the reform community, they always talk against Regents and drills and how 'less is more.' "
Still, if progressives are sometimes skeptical of calls to beef up academic standards, it's partly because such calls are seldom accompanied by the resources necessary to provide such standards.
In the end, Barber says, "everybody I've ever known wants the same things for their children -- for them to be able to play an instrument, to know how to dance, to get into a good college -- because they understand the value of preparing, of grooming, a child for the world."

GRAPHIC: Photos: No wasted minds: Science Skills Center, Brooklyn. (pg. 41); Buckling down to meet raised expectations. (pg. 44); Johnson's reality check: "Would you want this for your child?" (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRON CLAIBORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (69%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (69%); BOARD OF EDUCATION (58%); SCIENCE SKILLS CENTER (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (58%); SCIENCE SKILLS CENTER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; PRINCIPALS (SCHOOL) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: MOSLE, SARA; JOHNSON, MICHAEL (SCHOOL PRINCIPAL) MICHAEL A JOHNSON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



175 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 38; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Chemical Reactions

BYLINE: By George Johnson; George Johnson is the author of "Fire in the Mind: Science, Faith and the Search for Order" and "In the Palaces of Memory: How We Build the Worlds Inside Our Heads."

 BODY:

Inside the Brain
 Revolutionary Discoveries
 of How the Mind Works.
 By Ronald Kotulak.
 Illustrated. 194 pp. Kansas City, Mo.:
 Andrews & McMeel. $21.95.
A RECENT report in The New York Times described how iodine deficiency has doomed millions of Chinese to stumble through life with clouded minds. Iodine must be present during the brain's early development for the neural wiring to fall correctly into place. A lack of this chemical in Chinese diets has caused defects ranging from mildly impaired intelligence to serious retardation -- symptoms all the more devastating because they were so easily preventable. 
 Iodine is just part of the story of what is happening to children's brains -- and not just in China. To the brain, everything ultimately ends up as chemicals. Words shaking an infant's ear-drums, images vibrating the retina -- all this sensory stimulation unleashes molecules responsible for shaping the developing brain. Children whose minds go unchallenged in early life can be stamped with irreversible brain damage as surely as if they had been deprived of iodized salt.
The fact that a lack of stimulation can lead to stunted brains has been known for years. Kittens growing up in an artificial world of horizontal stripes lose the circuitry that lets them see vertical lines. Rats raised in boring environments suffer from a shortage of synapses, the connections that pass messages between brain cells. More recently -- as Ronald Kotulak, a reporter for The Chicago Tribune, shows in "Inside the Brain" -- scientists have discovered that other, even more harrowing kinds of neurological damage can come from being reared in an inhospitable world.
A bad childhood can leave people not only slow-witted but violent. The stress of growing up in a loud, dangerous neighborhood, Mr. Kotulak tells us, can cause an imbalance in serotonin and noradrenaline, two neurotransmitters used to send signals in the brain. The result can be someone who is constantly on high alert, reacting to a disapproving stare or a request to turn down the television as a threat demanding immediate retaliation. Life seems like one long emergency.
Mr. Kotulak's book has been stitched together from a Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper series. The lead paragraphs of these articles (now chapters) are inviting and the explanations clear. My only complaint is that reading the book is a little like reading a bunch of stapled-together newspaper clips. It's mildly annoying to be reintroduced to the same scientist each time he makes an appearance in a new chapter, or to encounter similar background material again and again. And I couldn't help noticing that the chapters often begin with a scientist working in Chicago, in Madison, Wis., or somewhere not far outside The Tribune's circulation zone. I wish that when Mr. Kotulak had finished his series he had put it in a drawer, set sail on Lake Michigan or somewhere to mull over the material, and come back with a wholly original book.
But the ideas he skillfully describes are so important that it is a service to make them quickly available to people who don't happen to live in Chicago. Though the book is a grab bag of interesting subjects, the real meat is in the disturbing middle section, on violence and the brain. I cannot think of any book that has covered this territory so well or made so strong an argument that the alarming rise of violence in this country should be treated as a public health problem.
It is always risky to make generalizations about the brain. Depending on the situation, the same chemicals can do very different things. But Mr. Kotulak marshals convincing evidence that serotonin is a kind of biochemical brake fluid -- important for keeping our baser urges from spinning out of control. Drinking, drugs and stress can cause a depletion of serotonin. In mild cases, the result is depression and irritability. In extreme situations, Mr. Kotulak evocatively writes, "violence rises, like some long-subdued monster breaking free of its bonds." Too much serotonin, on the other hand, can lead to the manic cautiousness marked by obsessive-compulsive syndrome.
The other neurotransmitter, noradrenaline, works as a danger signal, preparing the brain and body to fight for survival. The consequence of too much of this chemical is obvious: overstimulation to the point of frenzy. But it is also possible that too little noradrenaline can cause people to crave stimulation madly -- pushing someone in front of a subway train just for the hell of it, or stalking and killing one stranger after another. Who knows, maybe those people who drive around in rolling boom boxes, pummeling themselves and their neighbors with bass notes, don't have enough noradrenaline in their brains. And those who react to the annoyance by shooting out the window may be low on the restraining chemical serotonin.
As Mr. Kotulak shows, these molecular chips on the shoulder are not easily removed. It is well known that genetic defects can predispose some people to make too much of one neurotransmitter or too little of another. What is more surprising is that the effects of the environment can also become deeply ingrained. Too much stress early in life can permanently alter the genetic machinery of brain cells, reprogramming them to churn out skewed amounts of neurotransmitters. The chemical imbalance is locked in -- the brain primed with the biochemical assumption that it is trapped in a dangerous world.
Mr. Kotulak seems optimistic that researchers will come up with a cure. Maybe my serotonin level was low, but his book left me feeling much less hopeful. We have been hearing -- forever, it seems -- about the wrenching demographic changes arising as a greater proportion of the population becomes elderly. Economists like Lester C. Thurow are warning that it is not the politically powerful old people who will suffer but the endangered minority of children. As more taxes go to prop up a graying America, it will be that much harder to find money for the mammoth educational reforms and social programs needed to fight the epidemic of preventable brain damage. If politics is really just the calculus of greed, then research money will be channeled into gerontology, not saving young minds.
The result would be cultural suicide. Eventually the neuroscientists studying the violence problem will grow old and die. And the way things are going, there will be a shrinking pool of people capable of taking their place. A dismayingly large segment of the population will be too slow, too jittery and too explosive for work that requires patience and contemplation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: INSIDE THE BRAIN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (50%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); MADISON, WI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO TRIBUNE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO TRIBUNE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); MISSOURI, USA (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (50%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (73%); MADISON, WI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BRAIN BRAIN (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); BIOCHEMISTRY (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); LITERATURE (65%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE; KOTULAK, RONALD RONALD KOTULAK (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



176 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: In Search of the Center

BYLINE: By John B. Judis; John B. Judis is a senior editor of The New Republic and the author, most recently, of "Grand Illusion: Critics and Champions of the American Century."

 BODY:

WHO'S IN CONTROL?
 Polar Politics and the Sensible Center.
By Richard Darman.
384 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $25.
 RICHARD DARMAN has written a political memoir that is remarkably free of rancor and cheap sensationalism. "Who's in Control?" is not always fun to read and is sometimes colored by Mr. Darman's vaunted self-regard, but it contains a useful narrative and a serious argument about American politics. 
 Mr. Darman's story demonstrates that the Eastern Establishment is still alive within the Republican Party and the nation. After graduating from Harvard, he served under Elliot Richardson in the Nixon Administration, was an assistant secretary of Commerce in the Ford Administration, served under James Baker 3d in the Reagan White House and treasury, and then was budget director in the Bush Administration and probably the President's most important domestic policy maker. Along with Mr. Baker, Frank Carlucci and other former Republican officials, Mr. Darman is now a partner in the Carlyle Group, a firm that specializes in what my colleague Michael Lewis has called "access capitalism."
As the reader will learn, Mr. Darman was a voice for moderation and realism in those years. He warned against the excesses of the first Reagan tax cut and budget in 1981, counseled George Bush not to utter his infamous anti-tax pledge in the 1988 campaign and helped draw up the controversial Bush budget of 1990, which sparked a conservative revolt but also helped put the country on the path to fiscal recovery. Mr. Darman is right to claim credit on those counts. But the reader won't learn that during Mr. Bush's last two years in the White House, he fought attempts by Jack Kemp, then the housing secretary, and James Pinkerton, a White House aide, to develop a response to the recession and to growing economic unrest. Mr. Darman deserves at least part of the blame for the President's re-election defeat.
In this book, Mr. Darman uses the account of his years in government primarily to make an argument about the role of the center in American politics. It's an important subject, but unfortunately he is better at drawing up budgets than at analyzing political history. By conflating two meanings of "center," he makes it difficult to follow his argument. When the two meanings are properly distinguished, we are left not with a clear strategy for avoiding the political polarization he deplores, but just with a dramatic demonstration of the political obstacle Mr. Darman and the rest of the Washington policy elite face.
One meaning of "center" could be called prescriptive. It's Richard Darman's answer to the question of what kind of politics and policies America needs. He champions what Colin Powell has called "the sensible center," which Mr. Darman describes as being "less a matter of policy than a matter of mental attitude, posture and tone." Sensible centrists "are open to persuasion by empirical evidence, respectful of others' rights to hold differing views, and willing to compromise as part of the democratic process in order to avoid unproductive stalemate." Right-wing Republicans, he says, are substantively different: "anti-liberal, anti-welfare, anti-modern, anti-urban, anti-immigrant, anti-foreign, anti-elite and generally anti-government." Sensible centrists "are neither statists nor pure free marketeers." They recognize that the size of government will remain constant and favor "governmental action that incorporates market-oriented incentives." These include vouchers for public education and for worker retraining, the Kassebaum-Kennedy health care bill, replacing the income tax with a consumption tax, and using part of Social Security taxes for private I.R.A.'s.
The other meaning of centrism is historical: it's Mr. Darman's answer to the question of what kind of political tendencies prevail in American politics. Though many policy debates start on the left or the right, he maintains that the center always emerges triumphant. In 1981, he recounts, the radical right wing got the legislation it wanted, but by 1983 Ronald Reagan had modified his tax cuts, shored up the Social Security system that he once threatened to undo, and quietly shelved promises for constitutional amendments on school prayer and abortion. "The hard-core Reagan revolutionaries turned out to be little match for the dominant forces of moderation in the American political system," Mr. Darman writes. His answer to "Who's in control?" is "The system."
These two centers are not the same. The prescriptive center is best characterized by prevailing opinion among many C.E.O.'s, Washington policy wonks, lawyers and academics -- that is, elite opinion makers, from Mr. Darman to Paul Tsongas. The historical center represents the median opinions of Americans. These Americans don't readily embrace the partial privatization of Social Security, school vouchers or a national sales tax. Elite centrism is not the same as popular centrism.
In "Who's in Control?" Mr. Darman leads the reader to believe that the politics of the sensible center represent the historical resolution of the current extremes. He characterizes the present as a period in which "polarizers" -- the Bill Clinton of 1993 and the Newt Gingrich of 1995 -- have kept "the system from its normal tendency." Mr. Darman sees the two major parties as "shifting toward the poles" away from the sensible center, causing "an unproductive stalemate." He concludes that they can regain their equilibrium only through "the active engagement of the sensible center." The implication is that the sensible center is the historical center.
But Mr. Darman doesn't consistently blur the two, and at times suggests ways of bridging the gap. He acknowledges that "the traditional Republican base was not large enough or committed enough to serve as a protector of sensible market-oriented policies by itself." He writes that the key to winning popular support for the sensible center is the use of "populist" appeals. During his years in government, he recounts, he wanted "our own little establishment" to see that "the populist tinge could help us achieve our policy objectives by broadening the base of our appeal."
Mr. Darman's use of the term "populism" is somewhat eccentric. It denotes at a minimum a politics based on sentiment rather than on reason. He distinguishes a "destructive" variety, which he identifies with protectionism, isolationism and violent anti-government sentiment, from a "constructive" populism, but he is much vaguer about what this is. He identifies it with "improving education" and "fairness" and "corporate accountability." It sounds much more like the felt equivalent of sensible centrism than the unruly current of anti-elitist resentment that runs through American politics from Andrew Jackson through Howard Jarvis and Pat Buchanan. Mr. Darman is certainly right about the gap between the sensible and popular centers. He is also right that populism has historically played an important part in popular American political culture. But by inventing a benign and well-mannered version of American populism, he has begged the question of how sensible centrists like himself will win over the masses.
Of the men he worked with, Mr. Darman most admires James Baker and George Bush, but he claims that Mr. Bush failed as President precisely because he did not possess a "populist style." (He predictably doesn't acknowledge that Mr. Bush might also have been hampered substantively by a lack of domestic economic initiatives.) He praises Ronald Reagan and Newt Gingrich for their understanding of popular sentiment, but he has mixed feelings about both men. He calls Mr. Reagan "intelligent, disciplined and hard-working" and extols his "mastery of populist communication," but he also describes him as a "biased empiricist" (a euphemism for "narrow dogmatist") and "often oddly passive." He says that while Mr. Gingrich took a hard populist line against taxes and spending in public, he was "all over the lot in private."
Like other sensible centrists, Mr. Darman wanted Colin Powell to run. He recognizes Bob Dole as a comrade of the sensible center, but he also laments the Kansan's willingness to appease the "polarizers on the right." He advises Mr. Dole to "strengthen his base in the middle," but again it is not clear what he means by "the middle." During the campaign, Mr. Dole has had his own understanding of the middle, but it hasn't been the sensible center. As Bob Dole promised to cut $600 billion in taxes and balance the budget, Richard Darman must have winced. It was further evidence that what is popular is not necessarily sensible, and vice versa. That's the unhappy inconsistency that undermines the argument of this book and the political paradox that has haunted Mr. Darman's own public career.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHO'S IN CONTROL? (BOOK)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%); SENSIBLE CENTER (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENSIBLE CENTER (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: JUDIS, JOHN B; DARMAN, RICHARD RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



177 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: The Info Footpath

BYLINE: By Stephen Manes; Stephen Manes is a computer columnist for The Times and the co-author, with Paul Andrews, of "Gates."

 BODY:

WHERE WIZARDS STAY UP LATE
The Origins of the Internet.
 By Katie Hafner and Matthew Lyon.
 Illustrated. 304 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $24.
 At a time when politicians and free-marketers routinely denounce government intervention and regulation, it is useful to remember that the information highway, like the interstates that preceded it, was initially a product of Federal largess. "Where Wizards Stay Up Late" traces the roots of the Internet to the Eisenhower Administration's establishment of ARPA, the Advanced Research Projects Agency, in the wake of the Soviet Sputnik shock. Although it was ostensibly dedicated to defense, ARPA's mission of research and development turned out to cut a considerably wider swath. 
 In 1962, the agency hired a brilliant psychologist and computer scientist named J. C. R. Licklider, who had written passionately and presciently about a coming era when "human brains and computing machines will be coupled . . . tightly, and . . . the resulting partnership will think as no human brain has ever thought and process data in a way not approached by the information-handling machines we know today." Even when computers were huge incompatible devices used mostly for numerical calculations, Licklider envisioned networking them to communicate with one another and with their users.
 Ideas about creating such networks were percolating in the computer community. The key element, independently proposed by Paul Baran of the Rand Corporation and Donald Watts Davies of the British National Physical Laboratory, was the idea of dividing digital messages into chunks that Mr. Davies called "packets." Each one would contain not only portions of the message but also information on where it was to be sent and how to reassemble it properly with other chunks of the same message. In what came to be known as "packet-switching," special-purpose computers would serve as switches to manage the traffic so that many messages could travel at once to different destinations.
 Mr. Baran also suggested that networks be designed with redundant routes so that if a particular path failed or was destroyed, messages could still be delivered through another. The concept would come to be misrepresented by the popular myth that the Internet had been designed to withstand a nuclear attack.
 Licklider's successors at the helm of ARPA's Information Processing Techniques Office slowly began to bring his networking ideas to fruition. ARPA contractors around the country were demanding their own big, expensive computers; a way of connecting them with one another might minimize the need for costly duplication of resources. By late 1968, the Cambridge, Mass., consulting company Bolt Beranek & Newman, now known as the BBN Corporation (which helped finance the writing of this book), had won the contract to design and maintain special digital switches known as I.M.P.'s (for interface message processors) that would serve as the traffic cops of what came to be known as the Arpanet.
 "Where Wizards Stay Up Late," by Katie Hafner, a contributing editor at Newsweek covering technology, and her husband, Matthew Lyon, who is the assistant to the president at the University of Texas, Austin, shows just how striking an innovation and collaboration the Arpanet really was. Everything from the size of the packets to monitoring and repairing the special switches from computers thousands of miles away was a problem that had to be tackled from the ground up and often modified when reality collided with theory. In the early going, the Honeywell hardware that BBN ordered did not come close to matching the specifications; BBN engineers valiantly struggled to take it apart and put it back together, wire by tiny wire.
 On Oct. 1, 1969, I.M.P. No. 2 was installed at S.R.I. International in Menlo Park, Calif. From I.M.P. No. 1 at the University of California, Los Angeles, it received the word "LOG" and immediately crashed. The Arpanet was born.
 As more I.M.P.'s linked a menagerie of incompatible machines, computer scientists contrived ways of getting them to interact. That task, along with the development of many other standards, was performed largely by ad hoc committees of computer scientists around the country in freewheeling exchanges of ideas that the participants adamantly refused to call "official." By October 1972, the technology was good enough to demonstrate at the first International Conference on Computer Communication in Washington, but not good enough to convince executives from AT&T that this packet-switching stuff had a future.
 Ms. Hafner and Mr. Lyon devote an entire chapter to the evolution of electronic mail, including the origins of the ubiquitous "@" addressing character and the indispensable "reply" command. In the MsgGroup, one of the first network mailing lists, the topic of E-mail "headers" was debated hotly, leading to a classic missive whose 35 lines of nonsensical header information pointedly dwarfed its sardonic one-line message.
 Unfortunately, the book's final 40 pages are awash in acronyms -- admittedly hard to avoid -- because the authors are in a rush to cover the many later developments in networking, as clever engineers figured out how to use everything from fiber-optic cables to satellites to link computers with one another. The complex transition from the Arpanet to the network of networks we have come to know as the Internet gets a breathless treatment; important issues like the privatization of the Internet's "backbone" and changes in the way the Net works get lost in the shuffle.
 Although the book compiles a great deal of much-needed information, it cries out for a good editor. Much of the material is poorly organized, some is repeated unnecessarily and basic questions like how a packet is organized or how a dedicated phone line works go unanswered. The authors are profligate with analogies but stingy with examples, so that you often sense what something is like, but almost never what it is. When the wizards stay up late, one often finds it hard to understand exactly what they are doing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHERE WIZARDS STAY UP LATE (BOOK)

TICKER: BBN (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%); BBN CORP (60%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); BOLT BERANEK & NEWMAN INC (51%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); MATHEMATICS (69%); LITERATURE (60%); CONTRACT AWARDS (60%); 

PERSON: MANES, STEPHEN; HAFNER, KATIE; LYON, MATTHEW MATTHEW LYON (69%); KATIE HAFNER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



178 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Anticipating A Boon To Sellers

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
IN their quest to win the hearts and minds of voters, both Bill Clinton and Bob Dole have promised to virtually eliminate the capital-gains tax imposed on profits from the sale of a principal residence. If whoever wins follows through on the promise, and Congress goes along, the end of the tax could have a profound impact on real estate sales, life-style choices and the bottom line for millions of homeowners.
"I think the real estate brokers are already uncorking the champagne," said Julian Block, a Larchmont, N.Y., tax attorney. 
 Under current law, Mr. Block said, a homeowner may avoid capital-gains taxes on profit from the sale of a residence if, within two years, the homeowner buys a replacement property of equal or greater value.
Another provision in the tax code, he said, gives taxpayers 55 or older a $125,000 capital gains tax exemption on the sale of a principal residence. In its simplest terms, Mr. Block said, that means that if a taxpayer pays $100,000 for a residence and then sells the home for $225,000 after he or she turns 55, the $125,000 profit is exempt from taxation. At the present capital-gains tax rate of 28 percent, that would amount to a savings of $35,000.
Accordingly, he said, a residential property owner could conceivably roll over any profits on the sale of a succession of principal residences until he or she turns 55, at which time the taxpayer could then take advantage of the $125,000 exemption.
As generous as those provisions appear, however, they have a significant impact on a homeowner's housing choices.
Richard Roll, president of the American Homeowners Association, a homeowner's advocacy group based in Alexandria, Va., said that many homeowners find themselves stuck in their homes -- unable to buy up to a more expensive home while unwilling to sell their present home at a profit and subject themselves to substantial tax liability. "Those who do sell are often selling because of financial distress," Mr. Roll said. "And they're the people who can least afford to pay capital-gains taxes."
Even the $125,000 exemption for those over 55 means little to a 50-year-old couple who no longer want to live in a four-bedroom "empty nest" in the suburbs. It means even less to homeowners of any age who bought property in New York-area suburbs 15 or 20 years ago and have since watched their $50,000 original investment appreciate to $300,000 or more.
"For most people I know their house is their main piggy bank," said Jordan Clark, president of the United Homeowners Association in Washington. "If you eliminate the capital-gains tax, that means the people like me who aren't 55 years old can consider using the money they've saved up in their homes for things like tuition for their kids and health care for their parents."
Michael Stegman, Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, said that the current tax laws also create a "geographic bias" against housing in rural areas and big cities.
"Now, if you own and sell a house in a metropolitan suburb, you really need to buy a house of equal or higher price to avoid paying tax on the profit," Mr. Stegman said. "That tends to rule out outer suburban communities and inner cities."
The same applies, he said, for couples with grown children who might want to sell their suburban home, invest the profit and move into either a rental apartment, a retirement community or a house in the country.
In fact, Mr. Stegman said, for all the taxpayer angst the capital-gains tax causes it may not even be worth the revenue it generates.
"There are currently about 66.1 million homeowners in the country," Mr. Stegman explained. "And there are about 4 million sales of existing homes per year." Out of those, Mr. Stegman said, only about 150,000 taxpayers actually pay capital-gains tax; the rest take advantage of either the rollover provision of the tax code or the one-time $125,000 exemption. About 99.75 percent of taxable sales, he said, result in gains of less than $500,000. On average, Mr. Stegman said, the annual tax revenues generated by sales of principal residences amounts to about $200 million -- a relatively minor amount when viewed in terms of the entire Federal budget.
According to press releases provided by the Dole-Kemp campaign office in Washington, Mr. Dole's plan would give homeowners who have lived in their homes for at least three of the five years preceding a sale an automatic tax exemption on the profits up to $250,000. For every year over three years that a homeowner resides in a home, an additional $25,000 is exempted, up to a maximum exemption of $500,000.
President Clinton's plan calls for an automatic exemption of $500,000 for a married couple who have lived in their home for two years. (Single taxpayers would get an exemption of $250,000.) In addition, the Clinton plan would allow homeowners to take advantage of the exemption as may times as they meet the residency requirement.
(The Dole plan does not address this issue, nor does it address the issue of whether there is a different exemption for married and unmarried taxpayers.)
Real estate experts are at a loss to predict the impact that passage of either version will have on property values.
"This is really a sea-change," said Linda Goold, tax counsel for the National Association of Realtors, in Chicago. "But it's hard to do projections on the potential effect because you're trying to measure something that in the past was impossible to do."
One thing that seems likely, Ms. Goold said, is that elimination of the capital-gains tax should increase the volume of home sales -- at least in the low- and mid-priced markets.
"There are people out there now who aren't selling their homes because they're sitting on their profits to avoid paying taxes," Ms. Goold said. "If this kind of tax relief passes, those people will not only be selling their present homes, but they'll also be buying new ones. That's two deals where there would have been none before."
At the same time, she said, in such an active market, something would have to give. "Perhaps at the higher end of the market there will be price pressure downward," she said.
Michael Schlesinger, a Manhattan tax lawyer, said that unlike typical election-year tax-cut proposals, this issue seems to be one that both Democrats and Republicans conceptually agree on. That, he said, greatly enhances the chances that some form of capital-gains tax relief will be enacted regardless of who ends up in the White House.
"This is pure butter," Mr. Schlesinger said. "It's going to stimulate the economy, it's going to increase sales in the real estate market, and it's going to give empty nesters like me the opportunity to bail out with their profit before they're 55 and run like a bandit."
Why run like a bandit? "I'm a tax lawyer, " Mr. Schlesinger said. "When the tax gods give you something like this you grab it and you don't wait around for them to tell you they've made a mistake."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (95%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAX LAW (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); LAWYERS (68%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



179 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 11A; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: IN THE GARDEN;
A Native American Sun-Worshiper That's Fun to Grow and Harvest

BYLINE: By JOAN LEE FAUST

 BODY:
THE sunflowers are filling out, coming into their own with golden ray petals circling the brown center, or disk, flowers. Quite often the flower heads flop over because they are so heavy with the rich seed that will make superb winter bird food. If the plants are being raised for their valuable seed, however, it is helpful to put a cheesecloth or old potato bag over the flower as it ripens to keep the flocks away for now.
The signal to harvest comes when the backs of the flowers are brown and appear dry. Then the flower head can be cut from the plant and hung upside down to dry thoroughly. When the flower is completely dry, place newspapers on the floor of a garage or basement, and rub the heads together to release the seed. Or use an old brush to release the seeds and store them dry. As snack food, sunflower seeds are rich in many nutrients, including protein and iron. 
 Some gardeners never plant sunflowers because they find the old-fashioned plants attract too many winged invaders. Another reason is that the plants are so enormous they never seem to fit into a garden scheme. But children love to grow them, as do farmers.
The name sunflower can lead to confusion, however, for several plants are known by that name. Almost everyone considers the huge flat flower to be the true sunflower. This plant is an annual and can grow as tall as a person, or even taller. In fact, one of the most popular varieties is called Mammoth, which has been listed in seed catalogues since the 1880's. Another one is Paul Bunyan.
The plants in this clan belong to the genus Helianthus: helios for sun, anthos for flower. This is a native American, one of which archeologists have found evidence in the Western Plains dating to 3,000 B.C. Its cultivation has been traced to the Southwest and regions around the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. In fact, the first known breeders of the sunflower plant lived in the Oak Bluff region. The seeds were ground and used as a source of meal.
Spanish explorers were so intrigued with this treasure from the New World that they took it back with them. By 1562 sunflowers were growing in the Royal Gardens of Madrid.
Another native plant (Heliopsis helianthoides) is also called sunflower, but with an adjective added: oxeye, or false sunflower. The plant is much more casual-looking, its blooms not nearly as large as Helianthus. One ideal quality, however, is its use as a cut flower. It will last quite a long time in a vase.
Helenium autumnale, most commonly known as sneezeweed, can also be considered a sunflower. In some circles it has been called Helen's sunflower. This wildling is probably the easiest to distinguish from the popular sunflower clan because its center or cone is quite high and distinctive. The name sneezeweed is attributed to an American Indian custom in which the dried flowers were used as a kind of snuff to relieve stuffy noses.
Although it is not even closely related to the clan, another popular garden flower is called Mexican sunflower. This one is Tithonia, with brilliant orange red blossoms that look like daisies. But keep this plant in the back of the garden plan, as it grows quite tall and needs room to spread out.
Now that everyone is totally confused, this might be the time to make another strong case for the merits of knowing and using botanical names. At least, anyone would be safe calling the plants daisies, for they all belong to that clan. Sunflowers have also received a boost from the National Garden Bureau, since 1996 is its year of the sunflower.
Among others in the loosely defined category of sunflowers are garden types that are more modest in height and multiple-branched. Some of the names to look for are Floristan, a bicolor that grows three feet tall, and Holiday, about four feet tall. Another one is Hallo; it was bred for cutting, may reach a height of five feet and carries flowers six inches wide.
T HE sunflower is not only showy but is also a widely regarded source of nourishment, and not only for birds. In fact, its seeds are valued in the world economy. They are grown for their oil, and many a farm field has been devoted to raising this lucrative crop. The most important producer is Russia, which has bred varieties for higher oil content and improved resistance to pests. The oil is used in making soaps and in the manufacturing of varnishes and paints.
Since sunflowers are so popular with the younger generation (the seeds are large and thus easy for little fingers to handle), here are a few growing tips for future seasons. Be sure to select a full-sun location, and provide a stake to help keep each plant erect. Once the sunflower starts to grow, it should be encouraged to go straight up. As an alternative, pick the side of a building as a planting site so the sunflower has something to lean on as it grows.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (67%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (52%); NEW WORLD WINES (52%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (52%); NATIONAL GARDEN BUREAU (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GARDEN BUREAU (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NATIVE AMERICANS (88%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); GARDENING (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



180 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 11A; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: IN THE GARDEN;
A Native American Sun-Worshiper

BYLINE: By JOAN LEE FAUST

 BODY:
THE sunflowers are filling out, coming into their own with golden ray petals circling the brown center, or disk, flowers. Quite often the flower heads flop over because they are so heavy with the rich seed that will make superb winter bird food. If the plants are being raised for their valuable seed, however, it is helpful to put a cheesecloth or old potato bag over the flower as it ripens to keep the flocks away for now.
The signal to harvest comes when the backs of the flowers are brown and appear dry. Then the flower head can be cut from the plant and hung upside down to dry thoroughly. When the flower is completely dry, place newspapers on the floor of a garage or basement, and rub the heads together to release the seed. Or use an old brush to release the seeds and store them dry. As snack food, sunflower seeds are rich in many nutrients, including protein and iron. 
 Some gardeners never plant sunflowers because they find the old-fashioned plants attract too many winged invaders. Another reason is that the plants are so enormous they never seem to fit into a garden scheme. But children love to grow them, as do farmers.
The name sunflower can lead to confusion, however, for several plants are known by that name. Almost everyone considers the huge flat flower to be the true sunflower. This plant is an annual and can grow as tall as a person, or even taller. In fact, one of the most popular varieties is called Mammoth, which has been listed in seed catalogues since the 1880's. Another is Paul Bunyan.
The plants in this clan belong to the genus Helianthus: helios for sun, anthos for flower. This is a native American, one of which archeologists have found evidence in the Western Plains dating to 3,000 B.C. Its cultivation has been traced to the Southwest and regions around the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. In fact, the first known breeders of the sunflower plant lived in the Oak Bluff region. The seeds were ground and used as a source of meal.
Spanish explorers were so intrigued with this treasure from the New World that they took it back with them. By 1562 sunflowers grew in the Royal Gardens of Madrid.
Another native plant (Heliopsis helianthoides) is also called sunflower, but with an adjective added: oxeye, or false sunflower. The plant is much more casual-looking, its blooms not nearly as large as Helianthus. One ideal quality, however, is its use as a cut flower. It will last quite a long time in a vase.
Helenium autumnale, most commonly known as sneezeweed, can also be considered a sunflower. In some circles it has been called Helen's sunflower. This wildling is probably the easiest to distinguish from the popular sunflower clan because its center or cone is quite high and distinctive. The name sneezeweed is attributed to an American Indian custom in which the dried flowers were used as a kind of snuff to relieve stuffy noses.
Although it is not even closely related to the clan, another popular garden flower is called Mexican sunflower. This one is Tithonia, with brilliant orange red blossoms that look like daisies. But keep this plant in the back of the garden plan, as it grows quite tall and needs room to spread out.
Now that everyone is totally confused, this might be the time to make another strong case for the merits of knowing and using botanical names. At least, anyone would be safe calling the plants daisies, for they all belong to that clan. Sunflowers have also received a boost from the National Garden Bureau, since 1996 is its year of the sunflower.
Among others in the loosely defined category of sunflowers are garden types that are more modest in height and multiple-branched. Some of the names to look for are Floristan, a bicolor that grows three feet tall, and Holiday, about four feet tall. Another one is Hallo; it was bred for cutting, may reach a height of five feet and carries flowers six inches wide.
T HE sunflower is not only showy but is also a widely regarded source of nourishment, and not only for birds. In fact, its seeds are valued in the world economy. They are grown for their oil, and many a farm field has been devoted to raising this lucrative crop. The most important producer is Russia, which has bred varieties for higher oil content and improved resistance to pests. The oil is used in making soaps and in the manufacturing of varnishes and paints.
Since sunflowers are so popular with the younger generation (the seeds are large and thus easy for little fingers to handle), here are a few growing tips for future seasons. Be sure to select a full-sun location, and provide a stake to help keep each plant erect. Once the sunflower starts to grow, it should be encouraged to go straight up. As an alternative, pick the side of a building as a planting site so the sunflower has something to lean on as it grows.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (67%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (52%); NEW WORLD WINES (52%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (52%); NATIONAL GARDEN BUREAU (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GARDEN BUREAU (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available NATIVE AMERICANS (88%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); GARDENING (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



181 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: Heroin Moves In On a New Generation

BYLINE: By JACKIE FITZPATRICK 

 BODY:
SHE started taking drugs when she was 15. First it was marijuana, then she moved on to pills and cocaine. She dropped out of high school but she always worked, most often as a waitress. The woman, who lives in Fairfield County, married and divorced and got into a new relationship. When that relationship ended, nothing would take the edge off the pain she was feeling -- not the pills, nothing.
So she started to take heroin. Someone she knew took it and had told her she'd feel better using it. "It sedated me. I felt no more pain," she said. 
 Within no time, she was hooked. She continued to work as a waitress but only to pay for her drugs. "My personality changed. I had dramatic weight loss. I looked drawn," she said. Eventually she was using six bags of heroin a day, having gone from snorting to injecting it, and she was in a constant state of withdrawal. The man who initially had urged her to try "the ultimate high" had not mentioned the ultimate lows. If she didn't have a quick fix to wake up to in the morning, she'd start to withdraw. "You feel like you have a terrible, terrible flu," she said. Every bone in her body ached, every pore. She was always nauseous or throwing up. She had fevers and chills.
Finally, she went to a group meeting at a drug treatment center with a friend and "it hit me," she said. "I realized I'm a drug addict."
Since then she's been in and out of drug treatment many times but she feels more hope that this time, after two months in a methadone program at the Connecticut Counseling Centers in Norwalk, her recovery may stick. She takes methadone, receives counseling and participates in group meetings with other heroin addicts who are trying to recover. Still, at the age of 29, she knows the possibility of relapse is great.
"Trying heroin was the biggest mistake in my life," she said. "It's like calling up your enemy and saying, 'Let's be at war for the rest of our lives.' It's a constant battle once it gets you. And it will."
The woman's story is one being told again and again as Connecticut faces what many drug experts say is a resurgence of heroin trafficking and use that could reach epidemic proportions. "It's actually become a very trendy drug," said John Hamilton, vice president of clinical services for Liberation Programs Inc. in Stamford. "It's hit every cultural norm, socio- and economic class and age group."
Edward Guillen, of the Federal Drug Enforcement Agency office in Hartford, said there was a far greater supply of the drug than there was even five years ago, a result of the gradual production shift from Asia to Latin America. While use of heroin has stabilized on the West Coast and in the Middle West, he said, use is "much more prevalent in New England." As a result, he said, Washington recently approved additional special agents in the New England division "to help combat this resurging use of heroin."
Mr. Guillen said that the supply to Connecticut is up because of its proximity to New York, long "the focal point of heroin use and abuse."
While the supply is on the rise, so too is the purity of the heroin. Mr. Guillen said that in New England, they are seeing heroin that is 65 to 70 percent pure and sometimes as high as 95 to 97 percent pure.
That means that "some of the stigma has been removed because they are not using it by injection, they're able to snort it," Mr. Guillen said. "Gone is that scene in the hallway with the addict slumped with the needle hanging out of the arm."
Two groups targeted by dealers, say many drug experts, are young professionals and college-age students. The same dealers who once urged young people to try a little coke now say give heroin a try.
Mr. Hamilton said that by shifting away from injection, herion pushers "have created the perception that the heroin experience is more benign when in fact it's more potent. People don't know what they're getting and they're O.D.'ing from snorting."
Mr. Hamilton also said that about 37 percent of the clients at Liberation Programs are H.I.V. positive, a common hazard of sharing needles.
Robert Lambert, program director at the Connecticut Counseling Centers in Norwalk, a private nonprofit treatment center that offers a methadone clinic and a methadone detoxification program, said many of his clients are using four to five bags of heroin a day. (A bag is about a third of a gram.)
The lure, he said, is the promise that the drug will soothe all their pain, emotional and physical. "A lot of people who used it said they felt good for the first time in their life," he said. A user will get that first "peak experience," then chase that ultimate high for the rest of his or her life.
Life often spirals downhill, Mr. Lambert said, and addicts have to find ways to feed their habit; as a result, their family life and work life are disrupted. Some individuals are able to function for many years, "but sooner or later it catches up with you," Mr. Lambert said.
Michael Enson, program director of the adolescent and children's crisis unit at the Clifford Beers Guidance Clinic in New Haven, says "heroin is as addictive as any substance I know of." He is particularly concerned, he said, about the rise in heroin use in the college-age population.
In addition to the purity of heroin, people are being drawn in by the drop in its price. Five years ago, a bag went for perhaps $20; now, it's $10, even $5. In the 1980's the street drug was about 10 to 20 percent pure and to achieve the high they were after, Mr. Hamilton said, users had to inject it. Now he said they are snorting or smoking it.
The profile of the user has changed as well. with more middle class and upper middle class people using heroin. "It's become more visible in the suburbs," Mr. Lambert said.
While people try heroin more readily today because they believe the risk of AIDS is greatly reduced by snorting rather than injecting, drug treatment experts warn that it is easier to overdose on the purer drug, go into a coma and die. "Heroin is a central nervous system depressant," he said.
Another danger is posed by the materials mixed with the heroin. Heroin has been known to be mixed with, or cut with, anything from laxatives to rat poison.
Perhaps the greatest paradox is that the very danger of the drug actually lures people in.
Charles Morgan, a psychiatrist with the Waynik Group in Trumbull and Fairfield, who has worked in the field of addiction for years, said that when the national media reports on a particular brand of heroin that is causing people to O.D., addicts will go out of their way to try to find it.
Dr. Morgan said the addict thinks "if it's causing people to die, then it has to be good."
While some drug experts say they are not seeing much increase in heroin use in adolescent and high school-aged people, others are. Dr. Morgan says he is seeing more users 16 and 17 years old, and some even younger.
Susan Dalesandro, the clinical director of The Center in Bridgeport, a substance abuse program for adolescents and adults, said that while "more kids die from alcohol-related accidents than heroin overdose," there is an increase in heroin use across the board.
As heroin becomes talked about in music circles -- with Kurt Cobain's struggles with the drug and the recent death of Smashing Pumpkins' sometime keyboardist Jonathan Melvoin -- the drug intrigues young people.
Ms. Dalesandro, who said that young people develop a physiological and psychological addiction faster, also said that suburban parents insist it's not in their neighborhoods. "Inner city parents have no delusions," she said.
Any kind of substance abuse anywhere in one's family, she said, be it alcoholism or drug addiction, should make one all the more vigilant. While there are "some kids who drink alcohol, experience it and walk away, other kids get hooked," she said.
Bob Francis, the executive director of the Regional Use Adult Substance Abuse Project in Bridgeport, said the organization plans an extensive education campaign on heroin just as they did on crack in the late 1980's.
"We held forums, got all kinds of information out into the community. We were on the radio. We really spread the word and to some degree it worked," he said. "We need to do the same thing with heroin. Users consider it the Cadillac of drugs and we have to get get them to see what addiction really means."
Mr. Francis said he and his staff went to see "Trainspotting" because he was worried that the movie was glorifying heroin use; he said he was relieved to see that the movie "was graphic; it was not a billboard for heroin use."
Experts agree that heroin is a very difficult drug to walk away from.
Treatment is varied. There are inpatient and outpatient programs that last days, weeks or years, many with long waiting lists. At Connecticut Counseling Centers in Norwalk there are currently 110 people in the methadone maintenance program.
Sandy Vining-Bethea, project manager of the Women's Health Project in Bridgeport, a program for women at risk for or already H.I.V. positive, said she has seen a large increase of heroin use among women, and she worries that treatment is too short and becoming harder to come by.
"You can't recover from this sickness in three or four days," she said. "We need serious after-care, more halfway houses. Otherwise you're setting people up for relapse."
Key components to recovering from heroin addiction are counseling and support groups. Mr. Hamilton said outpatient rehabilitation at Liberation Programs means people have to leave their old life style, habits, friends, sometimes even where they used to live. Narcotics Anonymous or Alcoholics Anonymous meetings help, he said, as do regular exercise, a better diet, spiritual guidance, a structured life, responsibilities and new friendships. "They also need the support of family members," he said.
Mr. Hamilton said that because the brain's functioning has actually been altered by the addiction, it has to undergo a long period of repair. It is, he said, "as if a gray cloud is hanging over a person's life and a lot of people say, 'If this is recovery I'm going back to heroin or alcohol.' "
"Recovery is a life-long process," said Mr. Hamilton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (59%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: DREYER'S NEW ENGLAND DIV (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (59%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HEROIN HEROIN (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); CANNABIS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); COCAINE (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); EATING DISORDERS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: FITZPATRICK, JACKIE EDWARD GUILLEN (70%); JOHN HAMILTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



182 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: WORK

 BODY:
In "Work" (Aug. 18), William Julius Wilson writes extensively about the absence of jobs in the inner city without ever mentioning the anti-business bias that has caused businesses to flee. As much as the inner city may have suffered from racial bias, its economic deterioration has much more to do with an anti-business agenda accepted by the community and supported by its leaders.
A record merchant in Harlem is informed by his landlord that his lease will not be renewed, an everyday occurrence in the business world. But for the inner city, the landlord becomes a target of "community action," demonstrations, vilification. A Korean store owner is accused of disrespect toward a minority customer and becomes the subject of an aggressive and oftentimes violent boycott. A jury returns an unpopular verdict in Los Angeles and hundreds of inner-city businesses are burned, looted and destroyed. The unspoken lesson to the business community is clear. 
 In our society, we have talked a lot about what the responsibility of the business is to the community. What we need to start talking about is what the responsibility of the community is to business. Infusions of aid from social programs and the earnings of residents continue to provide a strong market for goods and services in the inner city. There are just fewer and fewer entrepreneurs willing to challenge this hostile environment without support. Jobs will be created again in the inner city when community and religious leaders publicly express their recognition that business is a good thing.
 
CARL SELDIN KOERNER
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BLACKS EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); VERDICTS (68%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF) WILLIAM JULIUS WILSON (66%); CARL SELDIN KOERNER NEW YORK (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



183 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12; Column 5; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: WORK

 BODY:
I know people want to work. It breaks my liberal heart when I hear of 2,000 people in line for 10 job openings at a new hotel or plant. I liked Wilson's pragmatism. He gave concrete suggestions instead of lambasting the system or wringing his hands and misplacing blame, as many politicians are wont to do. 
 Why not also build Government-financed alcohol and drug rehab centers as a W.P.A. project -- God knows, we need them -- and hire among the live-in help successful graduates of such centers as counselors, cooks and housekeepers, etc. who are newly sober and intent on staying so. They would receive room, board and a small wage. There's nothing that builds esteem and reinforces newly found sobriety more than the ability to help a person who still suffers from substance abuse.
 
MARY ANN OLSEN
Millbrae, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: W P I (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BLACKS EMPLOYMENT (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (87%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (87%); 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF) MARY ANN OLSEN MILLBRAE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



184 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 4; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: WORK

 BODY:
The strictures of political correctness at Harvard probably prohibited Wilson from a more incisive discussion of the unfortunate state of the job market for black ghetto dwellers. Thanks to three decades of more-or-less open-door immigration policy, the market for low-skilled labor is greatly oversupplied. As Wilson notes, employers seem to prefer to hire immigrants first, native blacks last. 
 What the Woodlawn ghetto dwellers really need is a tighter labor market, at which point more would be absorbed into the work force. This, however, means greatly reduced immigration. Judging by the fate of the recent Simpson-Smith immigration bills, this is not going to happen anymore than the expensive remedial programs suggested by Wilson in his article. It is unfortunate that he wasted this opportunity to frame the key issue: oversupply that differentially disfavors blacks.
 
WILLIAM E. MURRAY JR.
Portola Valley, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BLACKS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (91%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



185 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 6; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: THE 00's

 BODY:
What to call the 00's? The "ou's," of course, as in "ouch." Baby boomers will soon be turning 50, and some even 60, competing for the already shrinking Social Security and Medicare funds; high-school and college graduates will be struggling to find work in the downsized economy; the poor and unemployed will be, well, poor and unemployed, and middle-aged workers will be paying huge taxes to keep us all afloat.
 
GARY DECOKER
Delaware, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DOVER, DE, USA (51%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%); AURORA, OH, USA (51%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DOVER, DE, USA (51%); AKRON, OH, USA (51%); AURORA, OH, USA (51%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); OLDER WORKERS (87%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (85%); BABY BOOMERS (85%); MEDICARE (54%); 

PERSON: GARY DECOKER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



186 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Reconfirming the Unending 'Housing Emergency'

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
THE rental housing market has strengthened in New York City in the last three years, the result of a stronger economy combined with extremely low new housing production.
So the citywide vacancy rate in rental housing will probably show a decline in a few months when the Census Bureau finishes calculating it for the triennial housing and vacancy study by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. 
 Guessers should know that in good times or bad, the overall rate has never reached 5 percent, the rate needed to declare New York City's eternal housing emergency at an end. The finding of continued emergency is necessary to enable the State Legislature to renew rent regulation, which it has done for half a century and next year will almost surely do again.
Since the rate was 3.44 percent in 1993 and 3.78 percent in 1991 (the 1990 general census caused a one-year delay in the vacancy survey), this guesser will put his money on 2.98 percent for 1996. The results will become public when the vacancy study is issued, probably by February.
Meanwhile, there is time to ponder a question that rental owners raised three years ago -- whether a single overall rental vacancy rate as an indicator of housing emergency makes sense for a market as huge and diverse as New York City's. Then and now, the Census Bureau defends its methodology, which it has used since it started doing the survey in 1962.
To Anthony Downs, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington and a longtime critic of rent regulation as an inhibitor of housing production, the vacancy survey serves merely as "window dressing" to allow legislators to renew controls. Controls on rents, he says, work mainly to benefit long-term tenants in Manhattan, where the largest gap exists between actual rents and the true value of apartments.
But window dressing or not, the vacancy rate comes into play at the legal and legislative level, in academic argument among housing specialists and in actual management decisions made by the operators of rental housing. How it is calculated is important, as is whether it is calculated at all.
On the latter point, property owners in the City of Long Beach, L.I., have charged in a lawsuit that the state's Emergency Tenants Protection Act is invalid because there has been no periodic survey since 1974 to establish that a housing emergency still exists. The act governs rent regulation in various communities in Nassau, Westchester and Rockland Counties. It, too, is due for renewal next year. The Long Beach owners say they have made their own survey and it shows a vacancy rate of 7 percent in the properties covered by the law -- buildings with 60 or more apartments. "We also say that the law is hurting homeowners, who have to pick up a tax burden that is lighter on rental property because owners are not collecting what the apartments are worth," said Martin A. Shlufman, the Garden City, L.I., lawyer who represents the plaintiffs.
The Census Bureau's survey for New York City produces a "net rental vacancy rate." This is the formula: Put the number of vacant, nondilapidated units that are found to be available for rent in the numerator. Put that number plus the total number of renter-occupied units in the city, whether dilapidated or not, in the denominator. Divide, and multiply by 100.
The bureau sends surveyors to about 18,000 rentals in apartment buildings and houses to make up the sample from which the rate is calculated. The last time around, in 1993, the bureau found a 3.44 percent vacancy rate, based on a numerator of 70,345 and a denominator of 70,345 plus 1,976,671.
But is a single vacancy figure for the entire city sufficient to support a conclusion that there is a general housing emergency? This question was raised three years ago by Henry O. Pollakowski, a housing economist, who did a study that the Rent Stabilization Association, an organization of New York City rental owners, commissioned from the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies. Dr. Pollakowski is now a visiting scholar at the Center for Real Estate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Dr. Pollakowski contends that it is inappropriate to use only "available for rent" units in the calculation, omitting all units that are held off the rental market for whatever reason. The reason should be taken into account, he says. In a weak market, owners will hold back on renting out vacancies; but these apartments will mostly return to the available pool and "should hardly be ignored in characterizing rental housing availability," he says.
IN 1991, Dr. Pollakowski said, 57,800 units were vacant but not available for rent. He found 14 different reasons, the leading ones being that they were awaiting renovation (10,900) or undergoing it (9,100), were being held for occasional or seasonal use (7,300), or were rented out but not yet occupied (6,500); 3,000 vacant units were awaiting conversion to co-ops or condominiums.
Dr. Pollakowski also noted that the Census study includes public housing and other forms of assisted housing in which low or nonexistent vacancies are a given. The net vacancy rate in privately owned rentals alone was 4.5 percent, he said.
More than one measure should be used to reach a conclusion that a housing emergency exists, Dr. Pollakowski maintains. One might be the "gross vacancy rate." This includes both rental and for-sale housing. In 1991 it was 6.71 percent citywide, he said. In Manhattan, the gross vacancy rate was 8.87 percent, and in mid- and lower-Manhattan only it was 10.03 percent, he said, reflecting the torpor of the sales and rental market at the time. The number of "unavailable" units doubled to 39,600 in 1993 from two years earlier; almost two-thirds were in Manhattan, and half were in co-ops and condominiums. Many owners, apparently, were refraining from offering their units.
"The pendulum always swings more broadly in Manhattan than anywhere else," said Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association. "The demand is greater than anywhere else, and when the demand dries up, the drought always seems more severe."
According to Dr. Pollakowski, "housing emergency" needs to be redefined to take into account different segments of the market and the numerous components of the unavailable-for-rent stock. "You should begin by working on high-income, high-rent deregulation," he said, where the vacancy rate is greatest because the production of apartments in this area has been the greatest relative to demand. The State Legislature made such a beginning in 1994 in a law that led to the deregulation of apartments renting for more than $2,000 by tenants earning over $250,000 for two years in a row.
The Census Bureau, in a memorandum to the city's housing agency in 1993, defended its methodology, however. Consistency is important, the agency said, and its method has not changed since 1962. Also, the method is the same as what it uses nationally, with minor exceptions in New York that in 1993 changed the final calculation by under a tenth of a percentage point.
Using the same procedures, the Census Bureau found a rental vacancy rate of 10.7 percent in the Dallas metropolitan area in 1991 and 7.3 percent in the Chicago metropolitan area, the memorandum noted. (Both areas had upsurges in construction in the 80's prior to the slow rent-ups during the recession that followed, and neither area has rent regulation, G. Ronald Witten, president of M/PF Research Inc., a Dallas-based real estate research and consultant firm, noted.)
HOW all this plays out in a standard rental apartment building in a moderate-to middle-income neighborhood of Queens can be seen in the Jamaica Estates section near Hillside Avenue and 179th Street. Herbert Donner owns three buildings in the neighborhood with a total of 212 apartments and a vacancy rate of 3 percent.
Two weeks ago he rented a vacant one-bedroom at the Wexford Arms, at 175-05 Wexford Terrace, to Clint Delashaw, 29, a medical student coming to New York to spend his third year doing clinical work at Jamaica Hospital, and his fiancee, Kelly Daniels. Their rent is $850 a month on a one-year lease, or $70 a month below the legal vacancy rent. The apartment has turned over four times since 1990, but as in many cases with smaller apartments -- the ones that turn over most frequently -- the full legal vacancy rate cannot be realized, building managers say.
Six of Wexford Arms's 18 two-bedroom apartments have had no turnover in 20 years or more. They rent for $630 to $750 a month, Mr. Donner said, and would go for about $1,000 a month if vacant and upgraded. Tenants have little incentive to move.
If rents for vacant apartments were unregulated, the long-term effect would be that rents would rise significantly in the most desirable apartments, and probably fall in the high-turnover apartments, he said, because owners would be less dependent on those rents to sustain the building.
In the end, only a huge build-up in market-rate housing (highly unlikely) or a large decrease in middle-income population (highly undesirable) might push the citywide net rental vacancy rate over 5 percent. The "housing emergency" as currently defined is actually a description of normalcy, and a way of justifying the continuation of the regulation of rents under almost any realistically predictable housing conditions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clint Delashaw and fiancee Kelly Daniels, who rented in Jamaica Estates, Queens, from owner of 172-90 Highland Avenue (behind them). (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (93%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CENSUS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LITIGATION (61%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S HENRY O POLLAKOWSKI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



187 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2934 words

HEADLINE: For Abandoned Campuses, Recycled Lives

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
IN other Septembers, the buildings and lawns of Upsala College were filled with the sounds of rambunctious students beginning a new year. Today, amid shuttered buildings and scraggly lawns, the loudest sounds on the East Orange, N.J., campus are those of passing cars.
In May of last year the tiny private liberal-arts school, crushed by a $12.5 million debt and the loss of its accreditation, slid into bankruptcy and shut its doors forever after 102 years. Its 38-acre campus, in the heart of a city struggling to revive itself, was left in the hands of Charles M. Forman, a bankruptcy-court trustee, to sell. 
 Last month the fate of the campus was at least partially decided. The East Orange Board of Education bought the site and plans to use its eastern half to broaden its magnet-school program. Negotiations are under way for the Board of Education to sell the western half to the city, which hopes to lease or sell parts of it to nonprofit developers.
As it moves toward some sort of rebirth, Upsala joins a smattering of college campuses in the New York metropolitan region that -- pinched by rising financial pressures, dwindling enrollments or the occasional need for expansion -- have closed in recent years or will soon close.
Among those that have lost the identities for which they were built are the former King's College in Briarcliff Manor and an Iona College campus in Yonkers, both in New York; the Northeastern Bible College in Essex Fells and the Rutherford campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey, and the North Stamford campus of the University of Connecticut.
Some remain, all or in part, in public hands for recreation or open-space use, while their buildings have been recycled for use as schools. Others are the centerpieces of plans by developers or investors whose proposed uses include housing and a cultural center. And still others may see a mix of public and private uses.
The potential re-use of these onetime campuses involves complex zoning and public-policy issues. On the one hand, towns must balance the potential for tax revenue that could come from once-tax-exempt properties with the needs to meet municipal goals and preserve the community's quality of life. On the other hand, colleges -- or those responsible for paying the debts of schools that have passed out of existence -- need to maximize the economics of their old campuses. Complicating the decisions, the campuses may be surrounded by established neighborhoods that grew up around them and may also be among the last large parcels of developable tracts left in their communities.
Because of their locations, campuses present different land-use concerns than than those presented by raw land in fast-growing suburbs, said Robert Burchell, a professor at the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J.
"The ideal resolution for such sites," said Dr. Burchell, "is to in some way or another get them redeveloped with a less intensive use and derive some tax revenue -- in that order."
Measured by the market's yardsticks, old campuses often are also "a real-estate conundrum," said Donald P. Eisen, senior managing director of the New York region at the East Rutherford, N.J., office of Cushman & Wakefield, the national brokerage. Because such campuses usually are not next to highways and lack sufficient parking they do not generally work for offices and retail uses, he said. And some proposed uses, such as for supermarkets, are often what towns do not want. "What is left is to find a use that doesn't hurt the neighborhood and offers a return to the school and developer," Mr. Eisen added, noting that in the process "the political and social realities have to be dealt with."
Finding the middle road on the re-use of campuses has not always been easy, said Dr. Burchell. In a few instances the search has erupted into legal battles that have divided some towns.
Such a battle ended last year in the tiny, affluent Essex County community of Essex Fells. The town bought the former 12.5-acre Northeastern Bible College campus on Oak Lane for $4.75 million from the Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation, based in nearby West Orange, to prevent redevelopment of the school campus as a 80-bed rehabilitation center.
In 1992, Kessler bought the site from the college, which had closed two years earlier, for $2.4 million. Its plan for the rehabilitation center drew opposition from residents who said it would increase traffic, destroy the town's bucolic setting and harm its aquifer. (The site is close to wells that supply water to Essex Fells and three neighboring towns, Caldwell, North Caldwell and Roseland.)
ULTIMATELY, Kessler sued the town for denying its request for a zoning variance and filed a civil suit charging discrimination under the Federal Americans With Disabilities Act. The borough moved to condemn the property.
In the end Kessler agreed to sell the campus and the borough passed a bond issue, sanctioned by a majority of residents, to buy it and retain it for recreational space and a water recharge area. To retire the bonds, said Robert DiTomamaso, the Borough Administrator, the average property tax bill in Essex Fells will be raised by about $300 a year for the next 20 years.
Anne F. Whitehead, president of the Essex Fells Borough Council, said that residents "felt the property should be part of the community's assets and were content to pay the cost to preserve it."
In the Westchester County community of Briarcliff Manor, the battle continues over plans by a group of Irish-Americans to re-use the former 58-acre King's College campus as an Irish cultural center. Last January a New York State Supreme Court justice in White Plains upheld a special-use permit issued two years earlier by the village that would allow the investors, known as Tara Circle, to buy the campus and use it as a site for Irish cultural and entertainment activities.
The decision is being appealed by a group of Briarcliff Manor residents who had sued the village, contending that the permit violated zoning laws. In the meantime Tara Circle filed a civil-rights lawsuit in Federal Court in Manhattan, charging ethnic bias on the part of opponents to the project.
Lynn M. McCrum, the Village Manager, said he had received letters from as far away as Arizona wondering "what kind of nasty people we are?"
"The whole matter has divided the community," he said. "The sooner it is resolved the better."
The question is not whether these dormant college campuses will be re-used, for no one wants them to lay fallow or crumble into eyesores. Rather, it is how they are to be recycled with the greatest benefit.
That goal appears to be within reach in Fairfield County, Conn., where the University of Connecticut is leaving behind a campus because of expansion. By next fall it will vacate the 34-acre campus it has occupied since 1962 on Scofieldtown Road in North Stamford to move to the former Bloomingdale's department store downtown.
The $66.4 million project, including the $9.75-million acquisition of the site, will enable the university to triple its space to 155,000 square feet and double its student population to 3,000.
From Stamford's perspective the university's relocation "will put more people on the streets and add new life and vitality to the downtown," said Pamela M. Julias, spokeswoman for Mayor Dannel P. Malloy.
Meanwhile, discussions are under way among city, state and university officials as well as North Stamford residents over what will become of the current two-building campus.
The site is zoned for one-acre residential lots. Under a 1959 agreement the city is given priority to reacquire the land, which it had deeded to the university more than three decades ago. The buildings revert to state ownership.
One idea for the re-use of the campus now being discussed is for the city to take over about 20 acres of the site, which contains the buildings, for use as a middle, high or magnet school. The rest could possibly remain as open space.
The city owns about 10 acres next to the campus and the hope is to work a land-and-building swap, said Thomas M. Cassone, director of legal affairs for the city. Essentially, he said, the city hopes to do a three-way transaction. First it would call for the city to trade its property for the campus. And then, rather than seek financing from the state to build a new school, the city would acquire the campus buildings, said Mr. Cassone.
Lorraine M. Aronson, who is special assistant to Mark A. Emmert, the university's chancellor, said "we are delighted" with the city's proposal to use the campus for public education. "It would be a wonderful site for that purpose -- assuming the process goes that far," she said.
But, she added, the university is interested in selling the campus. She said thanks to legislation passed last year the university was now able to dispose of surplus land, like the North Stamford campus, and put the proceeds of the sale back into a capital fund used for the repair and replacement of university buildings.
Both sides say they are optimistic a resolution can be reached.
The arrival of college campuses on the market is the result of a combination of "a lot of trends to create an environment that makes college closures more commonplace," said Christine M. Haska, vice president of institutional research and planning at Rutgers. Key among them was a declining number of traditional college-age students. Nationwide the number of high school graduates dipped from a 1988 peak of 2.7 million to 2.4 million in 1994, according to the Federal Department of Education. The figure then began inching upward -- to 2.5 million in 1995 and a projected 2.6 million this year.
WHILE the percentage of high school graduates going on to college has risen, Dr. Haska said, the net impact of such patterns is that "higher education has become more competitive," leaving institutions that do not respond to change "vulnerable." The impact, she added, has been on small private schools heavily dependent on tuition for their operations.
David R. Merkowitz, spokesman for the nonprofit American Council on Education in Washington, added that such institutions closed because "they never had or lost a strong student base; and they often carry a lot of debt." Often, however, such colleges were reasonably good neighbors and, more importantly, a known commodity. Thus their potential re-use creates myriad concerns.
"Municipalities became comfortable with the properties' use as a school and are very uncomfortable with any change," noted Michael H. Siegel, executive director of the Stamford, Conn., office of the Edward S. Gordon Company, a commercial brokerage firm .
At several campuses developers' dreams of everything from a multiscreen movie theater complex to a supermarket and a conference center have been greeted with resistance or eliminated by market forces. Towns, even those desperate for tax revenues, saw such uses as assaults on the residential character of surrounding neighborhoods.
For some the answer remains elusive. Such is the case at the former 12-acre campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University in Rutherford, N.J., the first of the university's three campuses. It has been on the market since it closed two years ago as part of the university's restructuring. "We're listening to all offers, but you don't just sell a multimillion property overnight," said Richard A. Riccio, the university's vice president for administration.
The initial thrust to find a "like-kind, noncompeting" institutional user, did not materialize, nor did plans to attract corporations to use the site as a training center, said Lee N. Eagles, vice president in the Paramus, N.J., office of the Galbreath Company's Alexander Summer Division. The firm, along with the Garibaldi Group, a another brokerage in Chatham, is marketing the campus for the university. Mr. Eagles said a supermarket chain had wanted to buy the site, adding that the offer had been quickly rejected.
Now, he said, four residential developers are negotiating to buy the campus, which is zoned for housing. The asking price is $10 million, down from $14 million. "The question is not should the site be used for residential, but rather how many homes and what quality should there be," said F. John Fatigati, vice president at the Garibaldi Group.
What Rutherford wants, said Richard J. Allen, a borough councilman, is a development "that would produce some revenue to help stabilize the residential tax base and fits in the neighborhood." The goal, he said, is to make sure that what goes there today benefits the borough in the future.
In other cases the answer is found in keeping all or part of the campus in the public domain.
An example is the 21-acre former Iona College campus near the Hudson River in Yonkers. Iona acquired the site in 1989 from Elizabeth Seton College, but closed it four years later because of lack of enrollment and financial difficulties, said Matthew Suppa, a spokesman for Iona.
In June of last year Yonkers bought two-thirds of the campus for $3.75 million, raised through the sale of bonds, for partial use by its school district. It has renovated an old classroom building and a dormitory for use as an elementary school and adult education, respectively. Doing so helped the district meet its need for more space to accommodate its increasing enrollment and saved money, said C. James Grasso, assistant superintendent for operations.
"For us," Mr. Grasso said, "the $1 million it cost to renovate the buildings plus the acquisition" is well below the $12 million to $14 million it takes to build a new school.
The rest of the former Iona branch campus is to be sold for $3.25 million to a developer who, upon receiving approvals, will build a 250-unit independent-living retirement community for the elderly.
What of the remaining buildings on the site, including the nationally landmarked 1912 Renaissance Revival Alder mansion? Lee J. Ellman, planning director for Yonkers, said the city considered the property an opportunity to generate revenue by marketing it to developers for such uses as a office building or a hotel conference center when the market improves.
The same is true for the housing proposal, which the developer, Henry George Greene of Scarsdale, said was "a natural for the site, and meets a market demand." Still, his plan is subject to the City Council's rezoning of the site.
If Mr. Greene is unsuccessful the sales contract stipulates that the city must find another buyer for the property in 18 months or buy the land from Iona. But Mayor John D. Spencer said he was confident that Yonkers "will not have to eat that cost."
A similar story is unfolding at the former Upsala campus in East Orange, the boundaries of which are Glenwood and Springdale Avenues, Franklin Terrace and the Garden State Parkway. There, however, the sale took on an added dimension because of the bankruptcy.
The key was finding a qualified buyer, with an appropriate reuse of the land, in a timely manner, said Mr. Forman, the trustee. Each month it cost $50,000, including utility bills and security, to protect the property. he said.
Mr. Forman hired Jacobs Enterprises Inc. a real estate consulting and brokerage firm in Fairfield, N.J., to help market the campus, valued at $4.7 million and zoned for institutional use. About 10 bids were received for all or part of the campus, most from schools and nonprofit groups interested in reusing it for educational and religious purposes.
SOME, however, came from private developers who would have paid more than the appraised value to use parts of the campus for, among other things, a multiscreen movie theater and a supermarket. One also wanted to convert the dorms into housing, said George H. Jacobs, president of Jacobs Enterprises.
"There were no guarantees that any of the deals from the private sector could be accomplished and the trustee did not have the financial wherewithal to withstand the at-least-two-year approval process," said Mr. Jacobs. Selling the campus to the Board of Education for $4 million "enabled us to raise the most amount of money coupled to the most feasible and approvable project," he said. Proceeds from the sale will satisfy a part of the $12.5 million in claims by 12 secured creditors against Upsala. Among the largest is the City of East Orange, with a $3.6 million claim.
John Howard Jr., East Orange's Superintendent of Schools, said the purchase, financed from surplus funds, would enable the district to expand its magnet-school program of specialized courses in various academic areas.
Dr. Howard said that the campus was a bargain. He estimated that buying the site with school buildings already on it could be "a $200 million-plus savings" for the district and meet its land needs well into the future.
Despite the loss of tax revenue, which East Orange sorely needs, the city also wins, said Lorna K. Johnson, director of its department of policy planning and development. "Improving the city's education system improves the city," she said.
And should the sale of the west campus to the city for $1 be realized? Ms. Johnson said its redevelopment, including leasing or selling the land for a mix of uses to generate revenue would compliment that of the east campus.
"The redevelopment of the campus is not going to cure East Orange's ills," she said. "But it is in a neighborhood that is the heart and soul of the city's middle class that we want to preserve."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The former campus of Northeastern Bible College in Essex Fells, N.J., which was bought by the town for $4.75 million to stave off the 12.5-acre campus's redevelopment as an 80-bed rehabilitation center. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Charles M. Forman, left, bankruptcy trustee, sold the former Upsala College campus to the East Orange, N.J., Board of Education with the help of a real-estate consultant, George H. Jacobs, right. With them is John Howard Jr., East Orange's superintendent of schools. (Sam D'Amico for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Yonkers has converted a dormitory on the old Iona College branch campus into an adult education building. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UPSALA COLLEGE KESSLER INSTITUTE FOR REHABILITATION INC (63%); NEW YORK (64%); UPSALA COLLEGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UPSALA COLLEGE NEW YORK (64%); UPSALA COLLEGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST ORANGE (NJ); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CITIES (75%); ZONING (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); ACCREDITATION (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ROBERT BURCHELL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



188 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Office Space Is Again Drawing a Crowd of Investors

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
THESE are good times for northern New Jersey's office sector, prompting a steady flow of investors who are returning to the market with an increased appetite for acquisition.
Tenant demand for offices is strengthening, causing vacancy rates to decline and rents to creep up. A level of comfort is also returning in the aftermath of AT&T's announcement last year that it would split into three companies and lay off 6,000 people. So far, that move has had a less harsh effect on the real-estate market than expected. 
 Moreover, capital for purchases is available, mostly from institutional sources, including pension funds and real estate investment trusts, known as REITs. And with new construction limited and the cost of buying an existing building averaging 25 percent less than the cost of constructing a new one, brokers say, both investors and building owners are benefiting from the increasingly active market.
"Suburban office buildings have moved into the target area for investors," said Mark Twentyman, a vice president at the Morristown office of Galbreath/Summer, a commercial real estate firm.
As much as buyers are buying, sellers are peddling their wares. Some 9 million square feet of space worth $1 billion is up for sale in the 11-county northern New Jersey market.
"There is a record number of sellers reacting to the favorable capital market, resulting in the competitive buying activity that hasn't been seen since the peak of the market in the late 80s," said David Bernhaut, director of the financial services department at the East Rutherford office of Cushman & Wakefield.
Norman B. Baker, senior managing director at Edward S. Gordon of New Jersey, a brokerage in Saddle Brook, added: "Some properties even attract multiple bids, which is something very new to the marketplace."
So far this year eight buildings of 95,000 square feet or more in northern New Jersey, totaling 1.5 million square feet -- along with some smaller ones -- have been sold to investors. They range from REITs and pension funds to local developers, some in partnership with institutions. Cushman & Wakefield, which tracked the sales, puts the buildings' total value at $215 million.
Among them were a two-building, 540,000-square-foot campus in Parsippany, a 197,350-square-foot building in Bernards Township and a 95,000-square-foot structure in West Windsor.
The average per-square-foot sale price for those buildings, most at least half occupied, was $141, up from the $100 a square foot investors were willing to pay a year ago, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
That also makes now a good time for sellers. Among them are developers -- particularly those whose loans are coming due -- who want to cash out at today's prices. The same is true for pension funds and insurance companies, which want to reposition their real estate portfolios.
The nine million square feet of space now on the market includes six properties of 500,000 square feet or more, many of them under contract or letter of intent.
The largest is the Harborside Financial Center, 1.84 million square feet of space on the Hudson River waterfront in Jersey City. The owner is US Pension Trust, a division of US West Inc., a telecommunications company in Englewood, Colo. Stephen J. Furnary, managing director of Jones Lang Wootton Realty Advisers, which is the investment manager to US West, confirmed that the complex was on the market.
"We owned the asset for 10 years," he said. "The complex is leased up and we're out of the recession. It's timely to look at a sale." He declined to give the asking price.
Among the others is the 600,000-square-foot, six-building Metropolitan Corporate Plaza on Route 1 in Woodbridge that the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is selling. It is one of four properties, together totaling some 1 million square feet, that Met Life is hoping to liquidate from its portfolio.
"We have a bit of overexposure in real estate," said Catherine Peters, a spokeswoman for the company. "And we are timing our selling effort to be opportunistic, to take advantage of a growing market."
Indeed, the market's vacancy rate in the second quarter dipped to 17.9 percent -- the lowest since 1987, according to Cushman & Wakefield. In turn, average asking rents inched up to $19.38 a square foot, from $18.94a year ago, and concessions such as free-rent periods are vanishing.
WITH no sign that investor interest is about to fade, brokers expect most of the $1 billion worth of space to be sold by year's end. If attained, that total would equal more than the combined total of $846 million done in the previous two years, Mr. Bernhaut said. "That dollar amount would be difficult to repeat because of the significant number of large properties that came on the market," he added.
Meanwhile, deals are being made because suburban office buildings offer a higher return than ever before, said Matthew Schnurr, a senior associate at the Teaneck office of CB Commercial. He added that purchase prices were at or below replacement cost, insulatng the purchase.
Investors are also buying properties, with Class A buildings most in demand, on the theory that rents can be raised as the market continues to improve. So far this year, SJP Properties of Parsippany, which started buying in 1991, has bought, alone or with partners, three properties totaling 802,350 square feet. The company's largest purchase was two buildings with 540,000 square feet within the Morris Corporate Center in Parsippany, which it developed and manages; its partner in that deal was the Prudential Reality Group, a subsidiary of the Newark-based insurer. Brokers said that the cost was in the mid-$130's-a-square-foot range, which would price the deal at more than $70 million.
SJP's president, Steven J. Pozycki, said the company expected to close on another 110,000-square-foot property this month.
"We only bought in markets that we saw were tightening, and better quality buildings with good access that we could invest some additional money and move up rents over time," Mr. Poszycki said. That is the intent for the 197,350-square-foot, fully occupied building at 110 Allen Road in Bernards Township, known as Bernards 78. Together with the Equitable Life Assurance Society of America, SJP purchased the building for $138 a square foot from Johill Associates, a development partnership in Manhattan. The company's acquisition focus this year has been in the Interstate 287 corridor in Somerset and Morris Counties, among the state's strongest markets.
The Cali Realty Corporation in Cranford, which has raised about $350 million since it converted to a REIT two years ago and began selling stock in its ventures, has among the heartiest appetites for space. This year it bought 470,000 square feet of space worth $50 million in five buildings. Reports are circulating within the brokerage community that Cali is in the running to buy Harborside and that it is expected to sell for just under $300 million. Neither Thomas A. Rizk, president and chief financial officer at Cali, nor Mr. Furnary of Jones Lang Wootton would comment on those reports.
But of his company's purchases, Mr. Rizk said: "We are not buying anything we can find. But we are buying worthwhile investments where rents are at or below the market and value can be added." He said his company also looks "to take advantage of markets that are changing." An example is the 95,000-square-foot building within the larger Carnegie Center business park on Route 1 in West Windsor that the company bought for $10.5 million from a local partnership. Mr. Rizk said improvements would be made to the building; because the property has less than 10 percent of its vacant space leased, he said, the rents would be able "to grow with the market."
The current acquisitions bring to 33 the number of buildings, together totaling 2.2 million square feet of space worth $250 million, that Cali has bought since it went public two years ago, nearly doubling its entire holdings. Only two buildings are outside the state: one in Montebello, N.Y., the other in Media, Pa.
"We made a quarter-of-a-billion-dollar bet two years ago that the market would improve," Mr. Rizk said, "and it is now proving out."

GRAPHIC: Photo: SJP Properties has purchased Bernards 78 (left) in Bernards Township. MetLife is marketing Metropolitan Corporate Plaza in Woodbridge. (Alan Schindler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (84%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); SUBURBS (53%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



189 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 16; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: THE ARTS;
A Master Plan for the State Seeks to Put the Individual at Its Center

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
AS THE State Council on the Arts prepares for public hearings this month on the future of the arts in New Jersey, it could point to 17-year-old Johe Guerrero as an example of how art can be a vital part of everyday life.
Until this summer, Johe (pronounced JO-hee), a senior at Dickinson High School here, never thought much about his artwork. He liked to draw, but despite encouragement from his parents and friends, he didn't see much of a future in it or realize the ripple effect his efforts could have on his community. 
 Now, as a result of a work-study program in which he participated over the summer under the auspices of the Jersey City Museum and augmented by a network of disparate benefactors, one of his drawings is to be featured on a billboard in an anti-drug campaign. And the experience of working on the project with other teen-agers in the program, seeing it through from brainstorming ideas to computer reproduction, has made him want to go to art school after graduation.
"Now I know, if I keep working at it and practicing, I can get better," he said.
M AKING the arts integral to the lives of New Jerseyans is one of six goals outlined in the statewide Arts Plan that has been evolving over the last two years under the guidance of the Council of the Arts.
The other goals call for insuring better access to the arts throughout the state, strengthening arts education at all levels, supporting individual artists, fostering collaborations and building resources.
Public hearings to gather suggestions from the general population are scheduled for 7 to 10 P.M. on three nights: Sept. 24 at the Glassboro Center for the Arts at Rowan College in Glassboro; Sept. 25 at the Crossroads Theater on Livingston Street in New Brunswick, and Sept. 26 at Drew University in Madison. Anyone interested in speaking should call the Arts Council in advance at (609) 292-6130 to set up a time and obtain a copy of the plan.
More than 47,000 professional artists live in New Jersey, which has more than 600 arts groups. David Miller, deputy director of the Arts Council, said the state is No. 3, after New York and California, in numbers of artists and arts groups per capita.
Last year the non-profit arts attracted more than 15 million people and provided thousands of jobs. But there are still significant areas, mainly in south and northwest New Jersey, where the arts are sparse. And although a survey in February indicated most residents think the arts are important, many do not see them as affecting their lives.
Cuts in Federal and state support for the arts have raised concerns about survival, an issue the Arts Plan addresses by listing more creative ways to obtain money.
Lillian Levy, chairwoman of the State Council, said the Arts Plan called for broadened partnerships among arts groups, philanthropic groups, corporations and government at all levels.
"We would like this document to be at home not just in the arts community, but in the corporate boardroom, the tourism industry and economic development agencies," Ms. Levy said.
The plan has its roots when the Arts Council's planning committee began long-range planning, only to realize that conditions in the state demanded a larger view. A two-day retreat for members of the council's board and staff was held in October 1994.
"The issue that came up most frequently in the retreat in 1994 was the changing environment for the arts," Ms. Levy said. It was an environment being shaped by budget cuts, advances in technology, and increased pressure on corporations and foundations for support.
"We felt we had to stop and look at where New Jersey is going and figure out what role the Council on the Arts would play in that changing environment," Ms. Levy said.
Officials add that the Arts Plan is not a plan for the Arts Council, but one in which a broad range of people -- artists, educators, business people, government officials, private citizens, and members of civic, social and religious groups -- must participate to make it a success.
"There was the feeling that this was broader, greater and deeper than just the council, and that something was needed to serve the state," said Elizabeth G. Christopherson, the executive director of the New Jersey Network and a former head of the State Council on the Arts.
Last September, the Arts Council and the New Jersey Network Foundation sponsored the three-day Governor's conference, "Arts in Focus III: Taking Hold of Our Future." Some 450 people brainstormed on advancing the arts.
The conference produced a draft statement that was further refined by eight focus groups in November and January. In February, to broaden response, the Arts Council mailed a survey to 9,000 people and received 1,300 responses. Finally, in April, representatives of the arts community took part in five round-table discussions on ways to implement the plan.
Among these steps are the establishment of a New Jersey Arts Trust to support financially pressed groups; setting up a New Jersey Arts Marketing Campaign to stimulate participation by residents in cultural activities, and tying the campaign into cultural tourism.
The plan also calls for new collaborations by corporations and foundations to meet regional and statewide needs. It would develop arts education programs for all ages; expand services to artists; increase the use of artists and designers in public construction projects, and develop a New Jersey Cultural Districts program to connect the arts to economic and community development.
T HE Jersey City Museum's Public A.R.T. (Art-Related Training) Program, now in its fourth year, seems to be fulfilling the council's admonition to make art an integral part of New Jersey life while collaborating with a diverse group of benefactors.
The $90,000 program provided six weeks of summer employment to 28 students working under five professional artists. One group created a mural on the wall of a store on Central Avenue at Lincoln Street; the other, Johe Guerrero's group, did the billboard, which is to appear in 24 locations in Jersey City in October and in 30 other urban areas throughout the state.
The Jersey City Alliance to Combat Drug and Alcohol Abuse provided money for artists' salaries and supplies. The Private Industry Council/Jersey City Employment and Training Program acted as a conduit for Federal and state financing for student salaries of $5.05 an hour. Corporate sponsors included Gannett Outdoor of New Jersey, which provided billboards. The Art Department at Jersey City College lent its computer facilities for creating the billboard.
For Johe Guerrero and colleagues like Filip Slusarczyk, 18, and Rashid Butler, 17, who reviewed their billboard mockup at the museum last week, the experience has provided a new vision of the role the arts play in their lives.
"Art is almost everything around us," Johe said. "It's like this building. It had to be an artist who did it. Everything is art. It's around us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Johe Guerrero, at head of table, and his peers reviewing their design for the anti-drug billboard they are creating under the Jersey City Museum's Art-Related Training Program. Top, other students in the program painting their mural on a store on Central Avenue. (Jose R. Lopez for The New York Times; Jersey City Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON THE ARTS (NJ) ARTS COUNCIL (96%); STATE COUNCIL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON THE ARTS (NJ) ARTS COUNCIL (96%); STATE COUNCIL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); DRUG POLICY (53%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE LILLIAN LEVY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



190 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Karaoke Crackdown Stirs Ethnic Anger in Palisades Park

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: PALISADES PARK

 BODY:
On Broad Avenue, the aptly named main drag of this working-class borough, there is a nocturnal world that most of its 16,000 residents never see: a world of Korean businesses that hum until the wee hours.
There are three karaoke lounges, six all-night restaurants, a parlor where patrons can play the Japanese game go. These establishments draw Koreans not just from Palisades Park itself, where the Korean population has swelled to more than 20 percent, from 6 percent in 1980, but from elsewhere in Bergen County and even New York City. The changes have transformed a sleepy thoroughfare into a bustling, high-rent one where cars compete for parking spaces and neon blazes at all hours. 
 "Many of the Koreans work very late hours," said Regina Yoo of Fort Lee, a regular at Woo-Jung, a 24-hour restaurant that is often full at 4 A.M. "So a way for them to relax is to enjoy Korean culture and food."
Last month this nighttime world was suddenly thrown into sharp focus when the Palisades Park Council adopted an ordinance requiring retail businesses like karaoke lounges to close at 9 P.M. and restaurants to close at 3 A.M. It excluded "premises commonly known as 'diners,' " a clause that allows the borough's one 24-hour diner, owned by a Greek-American, to stay open.
For now, the ordinance is not being enforced because of legal challenges and public outcry, although merchants say that mere news of it has already driven customers away. But whatever its intent, it has stirred bitter arguments in a borough that has had more than its share of ethnic tension.
Opponents say it discriminates against Korean establishments. Andy Nam, owner of Grand Furniture and one of the first Korean merchants in town, likened it to "martial law."
Supporters say it merely reflects a desire to maintain the borough's "tranquil residential character," in the words of the ordinance. "We never, ever -- and no one will believe us -- intended this to be a racial issue," said an exasperated Mayor Susan Spohn. "It's an issue of business versus quality of life. We want our town to become much more residential; this isn't New York, the city that never sleeps."
Still, Korean merchants and residents say the new ordinance is just the latest in a long string of slights and insults. In 1994, the borough required businesses with Korean signs to put up English signs with letters of equal size. In July, the wife of a former councilman was arrested for defacing a truck with a key, erroneously thinking that the truck was Korean-owned. Last month, vandals hurled tomatoes at a pizza shop with signs in Korean and English.
"All these serious incidents, as much as I know, are not related to each other," said Jason Kim, a Palisades Park school board member. "But the Koreans see all these things, and ask themselves, 'What's going on in this town?' "
Non-Koreans on the residential blocks on either side of Broad Avenue have complained about double parking, U-turns, late-night rowdiness, urination on their lawns. "The avenue has changed, and it's a shame," said a man on East Homestead Avenue who would give his name only as Sonny. "It gets loud, because they party all night. And you go into some Korean stores, they ignore you."
Still, even some non-Korean residents and merchants are unhappy with the all-night ordinance. Martin A. Gobbo, president of the Palisades Park Homeowners Association, said the ordinance, which his group had long wanted, was done sloppily and hastily, perhaps because three council seats are up for grabs in November. And two Sunoco gas stations on Route 46 have sued the borough, upset at the possible economic impact.
Now, some officials think revisions may be in order.
"We looked at it from a selfish, American point of view," said councilman J. Luis Vidal, who voted for an ordinance that he felt was a good, but flawed, idea. "Obviously it was a mistake, and we have to go back to the bargaining table and think this over."
Joseph J. Rotolo, the borough attorney, said future exemptions were possible for several late-night Korean businesses, like comic book stores, that officials were not even aware of. The Golden Eagle Diner, by contrast, was exempted because it was a known quantity.
"A diner is a diner is a diner: everyone knows what it is," Mr. Rotolo said. "The fact that nobody really knew what those other places did, or that people had suspicions about what they did -- that was probably part of the consideration for the ordinance."
A recent tour of Broad Avenue's night life, led by Daniel Copp, owner of the Fort Lee Sign Company on Broad Avenue, and Chuck No, a Palisades Park interior designer, shed light on some of those questions.
In a second-floor club on the site of former Chevrolet dealership, about a dozen men were playing go, which resembles chess and is as raucous as, well, chess. The manager, Jung P. Lee, said that under the new ordinance, the club would probably go under because many patrons do not arrive until 8 or 9 P.M.
Then there are the karaoke studios, which, with their blackened windows and late hours, have generated rumors of prostitution. Nonsense, say the Koreans. On this night, the only people singing at the New Jersey Music Studio at 11:30 P.M., in a comfortable, carpeted room with leather sofas and a music system as big as a refrigerator, were two families, children included, warbling Korean children's songs and "Stand by Me."
At the Dolce Music Studio, a block south, Myung Sun Lee and Dae Young Park of Fort Lee belted out "Sad Promise," a Billy Joel-style Korean ballad with cranked-up, wailing electric guitars, then took a moment out to talk about the new ordinance.
"It's really sad," Ms. Lee said. "This is good recreation for everyone to enjoy. I don't understand why they are doing this."
Margaret Lee, a Manhattan resident who occasionally comes to Palisades Park to eat a late dinner and sing karaoke, said: "I think a lot of Americans are shy about singing, but Koreans are not. Your parents make you stand up and sing in front of people when you're young, and music variety shows are popular in Korea. It's a clean and fun activity."
Koreans say some patrons may surreptitiously bring alcohol into the karaokes and come out at 4 A.M. with a song in their hearts and alcohol on their breath. But they say they are willing to work with borough officials.
"The tension has been there for quite some time, but what is happening is that the tension is coming out, which is good," said Mr. Copp, a veteran of the Persian Gulf war, who is married to a Korean. "The more it's exposed, the more likely it is to be corrected. The more you let it boil under, the more likely there will be an explosion. And no one wants an explosion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Palisades Park ordinance would force karaoke lounges like the New Jersey Music Studio to close at 9 P.M. Above, members of the Wan family sang at 11:30 one recent evening. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "Transformation of a Town" shows the location of Korean merchants on Broad Ave in Palisades Park.
 
Map of Bergen County, New Jersey highlighting Broad Ave in Palisades Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALISADES PARK HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALISADES PARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION; KOREAN-AMERICANS; GREEK-AMERICANS; RESTAURANTS; DINERS (EATING PLACES); NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; KARAOKE RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



191 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Defer Capital Gains on Stock Sales? Here's the Catch

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT 

 BODY:
IN studying the tax code for his financial-planner exam, Damian Gallina was drawn to a rule that allows people to defer capital-gains taxes. All that taxpayers had to do was to reinvest money from stock sales in a way that helped businesses run by women, members of minority groups, Vietnam veterans and others hampered by social or economic disadvantages.
"Avoid taxes? Neat!" Mr. Gallina said. Indeed, the rule -- known as the S.S.B.I.C. provision, for the Specialized Small Business Investment Companies to which it pertains -- has no doubt caught the eye of many people. "It's in all of the textbooks," Mr. Galina said, and investors routinely find the option in popular tax and investing guides. 
 With the stock market having surged 1,000 points since July 1995, this tax tip may be particularly mouth-watering as investors look for ways to shelter fat taxable gains.
But the rule may be much easier to read about than to use. According to experts, the tax-favored investments that are the centerpiece of the program are few and hard to find. And while investors can gain satisfaction from helping the disadvantaged, the profit-minded may be dismayed by the investments' often-low returns.
"I have never seen it used in real life," said Mr. Gallina, who has been a planner for five years. "Not once."
Dave Mangefrida, a senior tax manager at Ernst & Young in Washington, agreed. "I have never even heard of such a transaction," he said.
Nevertheless, persistent or socially conscious investors, or those desperate to shelter big stock gains, may find the idea worth pursuing.
The S.S.B.I.C. plan is rooted in the Small Business Investment Companies program, established in 1958 to provide cheap capital to small venture funds investing in emerging businesses. In 1967, the specialized S.B.I.C.'s were set up to provide even cheaper capital to venture funds who aid business owners hampered by disadvantages. If such a lender can raise a minimum of $1.5 million in private capital, and is licensed by the Small Business Administration as fulfilling the program's social goals, the agency will supply it with low-interest capital of up to three times the private sum raised.
Then, in 1993, Congress gave investors an incentive to support these specialized investment companies. Under the new rule, effective in May of that year, investors who sell stock and reinvest the proceeds in S.S.B.I.C.'s -- but not in S.B.I.C.'s -- can then defer any taxes on the stock gains.
To earn the deferral, the investor must put all of the cash from the stock sale -- not just the gains -- into the investment company. Up to $50,000 in gains can be deferred each year in this way, which translates into a savings of $19,800 in Federal taxes for an investor in the top Federal bracket. Over a lifetime, an investor can shelter up to $500,000 in gains, and need not pay the deferred taxes until the S.S.B.I.C. investment is sold.
There is, however, only a short menu from which investors can choose if they are seeking this tax advantage. Because of the difficulty of raising the $1.5 million that is required under the program, the Small Business Administration currently licenses just 88 S.S.B.I.C.'s. Some states, like Hawaii and Kentucky, have only one apiece. And some of them focus on just one industry -- radios, say -- or on one geographic area that may not be of interest to an investor. Others may finance only early-stage ventures, or those of a particular size.
AND investing in these companies, which taxpayers must do within 60 days of the stock sale, is not easy. "Virtually all S.S.B.I.C.'s are private, and to invest in a private company in 60 days is very difficult to do," said Don A. Christensen, the S.B.A.'s associate administrator for investment. Unlike stock purchases, which are routine transactions and involve companies about which much is known, private investments can require fact-finding and negotiation.
Moreover, the specialized investment companies generally have not performed well. In 1995, they earned an average return of 3.57 percent, according to Federal statistics, versus 4.46 percent in 1994. Over the last 10 years, S.B.I.C.'s garnered average annual returns of 10 percent, while their specialized cousins earned just 4.5 percent.
The tax advantage and the political gratification, of course, are added benefits to investing in S.S.B.I.C.'s. And some of them do have a strong return on investment. The Medallion Funding Corporation, which finances the purchase of taxi medallions, has earned an average annual return of 18 percent in recent years, said Andy Murstein, president and chief operating officer of Medallion Financial, the parent company.
Investors who wish to pursue these companies can call the S.B.A.'s investment division at (202) 205-7583 for a directory of current S.S.B.I.C.'s. The directory, which is free, contains thumbnail sketches of each company, a list of its officers and a description of the kinds of ventures it finances.
But investors may have to act fast. In part because of the low returns for the companies, the Senate Committee on Small Business has approved the Small Business Investment Company Improvement Act of 1996. The bill would do away with the S.S.B.I.C. designation and the tax-deferral program, as well as raise standards for S.B.I.C.'s. "The program was kicking out some big losses and bad publicity," said Paul Cooksey, deputy chief counsel to the committee.
A similar bill is due for markup in the House, perhaps as early as this week.
Some say the program's fate, at least for investors, may be inconsequential. Mr. Gallina said he had learned one thing about the current form of this tax-deferral rule. "Basically, it's useless," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ETHICAL INVESTING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (75%); RELIGION (74%); VETERANS (57%); 

PERSON: FURCHGOTT, ROY DAMIAN GALLINA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



192 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: The Z-Car, From A to Zzzzz

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB 

 BODY:
ROADSTERS have caught the public's fancy, at least for the moment, and there is enough demand to justify new designs for high-priced grand-touring cars like the Jaguar XK8 and the Aston Martin DB7. But the conventional, affordable, enclosed sports car seems increasingly endangered. The latest casualty was the Nissan 300ZX, put to rest last month, ending a 26-year run for the widely acclaimed "Z car."
When the Datsun 240Z was introduced in October 1969, it was a sensation, offering sleek styling, taut handling and comfortable accommodations for two people at a sticker price of $3,526. Buyers waited months for delivery, including enthusiasts who would never have previously considered any car not made in Europe. Race drivers came aboard, and the Z went on to win 18 major professional championships and 29 Sports Car Club of America national titles. For Nissan, the 240Z and its successors helped to establish a performance image that spread to the company's economy cars, like the Sentra SE-R, and family sedans like the Maxima. 
 Over the years, the Z changed and grew. There were extensive redesigns for '79, '83 and '90, when an all-new 300ZX arrived to general acclaim. The last 300ZX sent to the United States has been added to the collection of the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles.
The father of the Z-car, Yutaka Katayama, founder and former president of the Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A., took part in the induction. "To attract the people's eye, I thought it would be nice to bring a sports car to the United States," Mr. Katayama, 86, said in a telephone interview. With nearly 1.1 million Z-cars sold, he clearly got Americans' attention. JAMES G. COBB

GRAPHIC: Photo: 1984 Nissan 300ZX 2+2 GS; 1995 Nissan 300ZX Turbo; 1970 Datsun 240Z; 1979 Nissan 280ZX (Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN HAWAII LTD (54%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN GUAM (54%); SPORTS CAR CLUB OF AMERICA (56%); SPORTS CAR CLUB OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO SPORTS CAR CLUB OF AMERICA (56%); SPORTS CAR CLUB OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES SPORTS CARS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SEDANS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); AUTO RACING (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); 

PERSON: COBB, JAMES G YUTAKA KATAYAMA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



193 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
It Walks Like Vanguard, but It Talks With a Different Accent

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY MIDDLETON 

 BODY:
WHEN John Wandell tried to sell some of his no-load mutual funds six months ago, the fund company talked him out of it. He said he was glad it did.
"They explained to me that the capital gains would be horrendous," said Mr. Wandell, a retired chief warrant officer in the Navy who lives in Weed, Calif. He didn't need the proceeds from the sale of long-held state municipal bond funds. He was planning to reinvest them later, when he felt interest rates would be higher and the price of the shares lower. 
 "I was going to get out at the high and come back lower, but they told me that was not a good idea, so I didn't -- and that was a good idea on their part" he said, because taxes would have erased his profits.
Offering investment advice, not to mention shrewd tax counsel, is what full-service brokerage firms are supposed to offer, not no-load mutual fund complexes. Traditionally, they take the orders of customers and provide general information. But Mr. Wandell, 75, who lives in a retirement community near the Oregon border, is a member of the USAA Group, the financial services organization in San Antonio, and USAA funds operate differently.
"I've been Mr. Wandell's representative for five years, and I don't hesitate to tell him what I think," said Pat Anderson, a senior account representative at USAA Investment Management, which runs the group's funds. A licensed mutual fund adviser and a 15-year veteran of USAA Group, the last 10 of them with the fund subsidiary, Miss Anderson extends to shareholders the same high level of service that members, those who hold USAA auto and homeowners insurance, have come to expect.
USAA has one of the lowest profiles in the fund industry because it markets its funds and other products only to its 2.9 million members, all of whom are active or retired military officers and their families. Originally named the United States Automobile Association, the company was started in 1922 by a group of Army officers unable to find affordable auto insurance because they moved around so much. Today, only the members may buy USAA's auto and homeowner's insurance, but its 33 funds are open to the public. The funds, however, haven't been headliners because their performance has generally been middle of the road.
"They clearly don't monitor expenses as closely as Vanguard does, but they tend to have a good crop," said John Rekenthaler, publisher of the Morningstar Mutual Funds newsletter in Chicago. "They're not great -- and this is often said of Vanguard, too -- but they are good, clean, honest citizens."
Mr. Rekenthaler compares USAA with the Vanguard Group, of Valley Forge, Pa., because that is the fund complex it most closely resembles. USAA, in fact, has recently gone head to head with Vanguard. Ever catering to its members, USAA in May started a Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fund with an even lower expense ratio than the Vanguard Index 500 fund: 18 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, compared with 20 basis points at Vanguard.
"This was probably the most asked-for type of fund we didn't already have," said Michael J. C. Roth, president of USAA Investment Management. Despite the low fee, he said, "this will be a profitable venture."
Fund expenses are crucial in the index style of investing because the goal is to match the benchmark, minus expenses. Only one other fund, the Seven Seas S.& P. 500 Index, is cheaper than the Vanguard 500 fund, and it carries a 25-basis-point marketing fee that is only partly factored into the fund's 19-point expense ratio.
Even without advertising, the USAA fund has already attracted more than $100 million in assets.
"We were looking to break even in the third year of operation, and that's moved up considerably because of the track that we're on," Mr. Roth said. He estimated that break-even assets would be $250 million.
SINCE the S.& P.'s dazzling 37.5 percent total return in 1995 caught the public's attention, index funds have been hot. The 25 S.& P. index funds followed by Morningstar have attracted $5.9 billion in net new cash flow since the beginning of 1996, an increase of 27.9 percent. By contrast, equity funds have grown by 10.65 percent in new money this year.
In no small part because of its famously low fees, Vanguard has been a prime beneficiary. Assets of the Vanguard Index Trust 500 Portfolio, as it is formally known, have risen 17.3 percent this year, including investment returns, to $24.70 billion. "We use Vanguard's S.& P. 500 Index fund quite a bit," said John S. Scarborough, a principal of Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough, financial advisers in San Francisco. "We manage about $300 million, and probably 5 percent is in that one fund."
Brian Mattes, a principal of Vanguard, said it was not possible for anyone to index more cheaply than does his company, which is mutually owned and returns profits to investors. "Twenty basis points is the cost of managing a retail S.& P. 500 index fund," he said. The USAA prospectus itself notes that, absent a subsidy from the management unit that is only guaranteed for one year, the fund's total operating expenses in the first year are expected to be 43 basis points.
USAA officials say they can hold to an 18-point expense ratio beyond the first year. But while not a conventional profit-making business, USAA is not a mutual, either. It is a reciprocal interinsurance exchange, meaning that owners of its insurance policies own the company, and most of the profits -- which totaled $815 million in the first half of this year, a 38 percent increase on revenue of $3.5 billion -- are distributed to them in the form of dividends. While only military officers, their dependents and USAA employees can buy the insurance, only the military members, who number 1.7 million, receive the dividends. Fund shareholders do not share this wealth, but merely help create it.
USAA also imposes an expense on fund ownership that many other complexes do not: a $10 annual account fee, no matter the size of the account. Like many complexes, Vanguard imposes that fee only on accounts of less than $10,000. So an investment of $10,000 in the two funds would generate annual costs of $28 at USAA ($18 in expenses plus the fee) and $20 at Vanguard.
Even in indexing, all funds do not perform equally. Small funds cannot economically buy the appropriate number of shares in all 500 companies in the index, and even huge ones like Vanguard's use derivatives like index futures to invest new money and hedge against redemptions.
USAA's portfolio is larger than it seems because the 500 index fund is what the fund industry calls a "spoke," and its "hub" is the $18 billion BT Institutional Equity 500 Index fund; each spoke offers a different way to market the main fund. Like Vanguard, BT specializes in indexing, and has an excellent track record. From its inception on Dec. 31, 1992, through August, the institutional fund generated annualized total returns of 14.53 percent. That is only 8 basis points less than the S.& P. index itself, and 42 points more than the average S.& P. index fund, according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc. in Summit, N.J.
The institutional fund's expense ratio is 10 basis points, meaning that the 8 points USAA tacks on would have reduced the return of its fund correspondingly. Including compounding, it would have been slightly less than 14.45 percent. By comparison, the Vanguard 500 fund actually delivered 14.46 percent.
It is not likely that shareholders of the Vanguard fund will switch to the USAA fund to save 2 basis points in expenses. "I have such a high comfort level with Vanguard being able to deliver, I might be reluctant to move," Mr. Rekenthaler said. But new investors might be attracted not only by lower costs, at least on accounts between the $3,000 minimum each fund imposes and the $10,000 cutoff on account fees at Vanguard, but also by USAA's service.
Some 150 of the fund company's 600 employees take orders over the telephone and offer investment advice. "We try to match funds to the investor's objectives, time frame and risk tolerance," Miss Anderson said. "Based on those factors, we say, 'Here are the funds we think will meet those needs.' "
Customers don't have to rely on whoever happens to answer the toll-free number. Each is assigned to a team of personal representatives and can always choose to deal with the same person, as Mr. Wandell does.
USAA also has plans to make its customer service even more appealing. "We are just on the verge of starting up a financial planning function," Mr. Roth said. "It will be piloting soon. This would be more than just investment planning. We'd sit down with our customers and go over everything: wills, trusts, college and retirement planning, long-term care needs, down payment for a house, the whole shtick." At least initially, he said, the services would be offered free.
Of course, unlike independent financial planners, the USAA agents would be selling the group's own products. And unlike planners' clients, USAA customers can anticipate a deluge of mail from their adviser. USAA says it is the nation's largest direct marketer, with a total staff of 16,000, which also makes it San Antonio's largest private employer.
It will, however, have advisers like Miss Anderson standing by to occasionally undercut the company's own promotions. Several times Mr. Wandell has received mailings promoting a USAA fund and called Miss Anderson for advice. "Because I know him, and the level of risk he's willing to take," she said, "I'll tell him it's something I would consider or something I'd walk away from."
Imagine if your broker at Charles Schwab or Fidelity Investments -- or even Vanguard -- told you that.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Service is emphasized at USAA, where Pat Anderson, an adviser, held a snapshot of a favorite client, John Wandell. Michael J. C. Roth, right, is president of the parent company. (Bill Albrecht for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Keeping Costs Down" lists the 10 S.&.P 500 index funds with the lowest expenses and their average annual return this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: USAA GROUP; VANGUARD GROUP INC UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION INC (96%); USAA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (91%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (74%); US NAVY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAA GROUP; VANGUARD GROUP INC US NAVY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY PERSONNEL MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BONDS (89%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (86%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (86%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); ARMIES (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (62%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: MIDDLETON, TIMOTHY JOHN WANDELL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



194 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN;
So Far, Jobs Are Hot Item At New Mall

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Each day for two weeks, in a line that snaked around a city block in downtown Brooklyn, hundreds of men and women stood under the hot August sun vying for the first jobs at the Atlantic Center, the mammoth mall slated to open this fall on Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues. By Labor Day, some 375 had landed jobs as cashiers, stock clerks and sales representatives at the Caldor's store.
It was a stark snapshot of the hunger for work in a borough where more than 1 of every 10 working-age adults is unemployed -- about one percentage point higher than the citywide average in July, according to the State Department of Labor. 
 And it was the first sign of things to come at Atlantic Center, the $85 million, 380,000-square-foot mall that holds the promise of about 1,250 new retail jobs, according to the developer, Forest City Ratner. In the next two to six weeks, Pathmark, the supermarket chain, will take applications for about 200 to 250 mostly part-time jobs, most of them starting at the new minimum wage of $5.15 per hour, said a Pathmark spokesman, Stan Sorkin.
Over the last five years, Brooklyn has gained about 8,500 private-sector jobs, according to the State Department of Labor, though most have been transfers from Manhattan to the Metrotech office and retail tower in downtown Brooklyn. Coming on the heels of several small factory closures in the area and the loss of 900 jobs at the A & S flagship store, which closed last year in Fulton Mall, Atlantic Center holds out no small promise. The project is subsidized by $8 million in Federal funds, $10.5 million in city funds and a 23-year tax-abatement package.
"Downtown Brooklyn has really suffered over the years because it hasn't had a major investment in retailing until now," said Mitchell Moss, director of the New York University Urban Research Center. Jobs at Atlantic Center, he said, are "new jobs as opposed to imported jobs."
But even as Brooklynites are eyeing the mall for job opportunities, others are angry. Over the last two weeks, members of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or Acorn, have demonstrated in front of the giant mall under construction and argued before the City Council against approving "big box" stores like Caldor and the Sports Authority in the neighborhood.
Bertha Lewis, an Acorn organizer, argued that minimum-wage jobs would be of little benefit and that developers that benefit from government subsidies should be required to insure that local residents -- in this case, from all over Brooklyn -- are hired.
"Someone's got to be responsible," she said.
Neither the developer nor the retailers are legally or contractually obligated to reserve jobs for Brooklyn residents. Joyce Baumgarten, a spokeswoman for Forest City Ratner, said that each store is responsible for its own hiring, and that while there are no guarantees, retailers generally hire from surrounding areas.
At Metrotech, which was also built by Forest City Ratner, Ms. Baumgarten said, several security guards were hired from the nearby community. SOMINI SENGUPTA

GRAPHIC: Photo: Job-seekers lined up at Atlantic Center mall for positions at Caldor. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC CENTER (BROOKLYN SHOPPING MALL) CITY RATNER (74%); FULTON MALL (64%); ATLANTIC CENTER (88%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY URBAN RESEARCH CENTER (64%); STATE DEPARTMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC CENTER (BROOKLYN SHOPPING MALL) ATLANTIC CENTER (88%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY URBAN RESEARCH CENTER (64%); STATE DEPARTMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); SALES FORCE (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI JOYCE BAUMGARTEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



195 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JAMAICA;
Multiplex, by Magic Johnson

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII 

 BODY:
In decades past, Jamaica Avenue was a center of shopping and entertainment. There were major department stores like Gertz and a string of first-run movie theaters. But the stores were gradually replaced by the discounters and small retailers that now line the commercial strip, and the movie houses went dark.
Now, the movies are about to return. Earvin Johnson, the basketball star, plans to open Magic Johnson Theaters, a multiscreen cinema, at Jamaica Avenue and Parsons Boulevard in partnership with Sony Retail Entertainment. The project is expected to be completed by 1998. 
 The theater, which will have at least 11 screens, will be the anchor tenant in an $80 million entertainment and commercial complex developed by the Mattone Group of Whitestone, Queens. Local business leaders say that as empty storefronts along Jamaica Avenue are reoccupied by family businesses and national chain stores, redeveloping the block's night life is the next step.
"Household income in southeast Queens is higher than the average in Queens," said F. Carlisle Towery, executive director of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, "and it's increasing at a faster rate than the rest of the borough. The theater is a good thing because it would not only provide a much-needed service but will also have good multiplier effects on commerce in the area."
Business leaders are hoping that the new theater, on the third floor of a seven-story building with nearly 200,000 square feet of office and commercial space, will duplicate the success of Mr. Johnson's first theater venture, in the Crenshaw district of Los Angeles, which some skeptics thought could not support such an enterprise. Ken Lombard, president of the Magic Johnson Theaters, said the 12-screen theater was one of the highest grossing among Sony theaters.
Mark Ridley-Thomas, a Los Angeles Councilman who represents the Crenshaw district, said that the theater itself had generated 100 new jobs and that business at the Baldwin Hills-Crenshaw Plaza, a shopping complex that includes the theater, had increased in some cases by as much as 40 percent after the cinema opened last October.
"It became the economic hub of South L.A. in a way that had been hoped for and then some," Mr. Ridley-Thomas said.
Economic aspects aside, some Jamaica residents say they are glad movies will be available in the neighborhood. Many of them have to travel to theaters at the Green Acres Mall in Valley Stream, L.I., or the Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City, L.I.
Because of the distance, Iana Dennis, 17, said she missed out on many movies.
"I saw 'Supercop,' " said Ms. Dennis, recalling a recent trip to one of the Long Island theaters. "But I really wanted to see 'Independence Day.' I couldn't go because it started really late." JANE H. LII

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Magic Johnson Theaters will anchor an $80 million complex. (Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron Architects)
 
Map shows site of planned multi-screen cinema.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MAGIC JOHNSON THEATERS; SONY RETAIL ENTERTAINMENT; MATTONE GROUP SONY RETAIL ENTERTAINMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAGIC JOHNSON THEATERS; SONY RETAIL ENTERTAINMENT; MATTONE GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) RETAILERS (92%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); FILM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FAMILY (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); JOB CREATION (62%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H; JOHNSON, EARVIN (MAGIC) EARVIN 'MAGIC' JOHNSON (96%); DAVID DAVIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



196 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Bridges for Both Parties;
Requiem for a Metaphor Too Far

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AS political metaphors go, it's a humble one. It's not a shining city, or a new frontier or anything as sparkling as a point of light -- just a bridge. But since President Clinton turned it against Bob Dole in his acceptance speech at the Democratic convention last month, that particular item of infrastructure has become the dominant oratorical image of the 1996 campaign.
Over and over on the stump, Mr. Clinton vows to be a "bridge to the future," while complaining that Mr. Dole wants to build a bridge to the past. Mr. Dole, visibly frustrated at his opponent's tactic, won't let the image go, accusing Mr. Clinton of plotting to build a "bridge to the future of higher taxes, more teen-agers using drugs, a Government-run health care system, more liberal judges, America defenseless against incoming ballistic missiles, an economy producing too few jobs and on and on and on." 
 Everybody has got into the act. In describing Mr. Clinton's decision to postpone a stop in Pittsburgh last week because he was too tired after a week of campaigning, the White House press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, said with an almost-straight face that, for the moment, Pennsylvania would be "a bridge too far."

 
 
He Was There
 It all started mildly enough. At the Republican Convention in San Diego, Mr. Dole beseeched the delegates: "Let me be the bridge to an America that only the unknowing call myth. Let me be the bridge to a time of tranquillity, faith and confidence in action. To those who say it was never so, that America has not been better, I say, you're wrong, and I know, because I was there and I have seen it and I remember."
Democrats, and more than a few Republicans, immediately seized on that passage as a backward-looking paean to the past. In fact, Mr. Dole seems not to have meant it to sound so musty. In his new campaign video, taped before the convention speech, he pitches the metaphor forward, saying, "I want to be a bridge from my generation to younger generations."
But as it happened, Mr. Clinton's speech writers were already looking for a metaphor to sum up what they saw as a transitional Presidency, straddling old liberal orthodoxies and a future of unsettling prospects and promise.
Mr. Clinton had even tried out a bridge of his own, in a Fourth of July address in Youngstown, Ohio, where he declared: "For decades, Youngstown milled the steel that built the bridges that spanned our great rivers and linked our great cities. Now, your values must build the bridges to carry us all into a new century."
On the Saturday before the Democratic Convention, Mr. Clinton held a brainstorming session in the Oval Office to go over the draft of his acceptance speech, which already had a bridge reference in it, aides recalled. They said the President stayed up alone that night until 2 or 3 A.M., reworking the speech to make the bridge a leitmotif on topics from education to crime to the economy, family values and national defense.

 
 
Foreshadowing by Gore
 Vice President Al Gore teased the idea in his convention speech on Wednesday night, and Mr. Clinton unleashed it full force in his acceptance speech the next night and on the two-day bus trip that followed. It may not have been especially original, but it was effective.
"I've found as a speechwriter for many years that junk works, and that elevated and sophisticated rhetoric usually flies over the head of the electorate," said Joseph E. Persico, a former speechwriter for Nelson A. Rockefeller who helped Colin Powell with his speech at the Republican convention.
Mr. Persico said the finely wrought passages in Mr. Dole's speech sounded forced and highfalutin delivered by such a plain-spoken man, while punchier, less lovely sections about cutting taxes rang truer.
In the 1960's, William Safire writes in his "New Political Dictionary" (Random House, 1993), bridge-building became the dominant metaphor for East-West cooperation in the cold war, but the term fell into disfavor after Senator Edward M. Kennedy's accident on the bridge at Chappaquiddick in 1969. After that, "dialogue" took over as the main cliche.
And even then, there were skeptics, like the Soviet premier, Nikita S. Khrushchev, who complained: "Politicians are the same all over. They promise to build a bridge even when there is no river."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton crossed this bridge when he came to it, going from Missouri to Thebes, Ill., on his bus tour. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); JUDGES (53%); RIVERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



197 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
How to Land a Promising 'Huge Cap' Stock

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
TRYING to catch a whale surely isn't like other kinds of fishing, and the same holds true for picking stocks. When investors choose among behemoths like AT&T, Coca-Cola and General Electric, many of the traditional yardsticks don't seem to work. Very low-priced stocks, for example, frequently perform more poorly than expensive ones, and the fastest growers are not always rewarded handsomely.
"They seem to be a breed apart," said Melissa R. Brown, an analyst for Prudential Securities, who has looked into the behavior of what she calls "huge cap" companies. The paradox, of course, is that so much mystery surrounds these giants, even though their every thud is heard by dozens of analysts. 
 But a recent study by Ms. Brown suggests at least one strategy that may be useful in helping investors land winners: picking stocks with high dividend yields. After analyzing the returns of the 50 largest domestic stocks from 1967 through 1995, Ms. Brown found that the stocks with the highest yields easily bested the stocks with little or no yields. The 10 or so highest yielders had an average return of 15.3 percent annually, the lowest yielders gained 10 percent and stocks with no yield returned just 3.1 percent.
When Ms. Brown studied other strategies, like picking huge caps with low price-to-earnings ratios or those whose earnings estimates had been raised, she found less consistent results. The dividend yield, which represents a company's annual dividend as a percentage of its stock price, was "the best indicator of the three," she said.
Betting on high-yielding stocks has long been a popular strategy, of course. The Dogs of the Dow theory, for example, recommends that investors buy the 10 highest-yielding stocks among the 30 that make up the Dow Jones industrials. But investors have a more limited universe under that approach than under Ms. Brown's, noted Brian C. Rogers, a portfolio manager for T. Rowe Price. Also, some of the Dow stocks may be riskier investments.
But both the Dow and Ms. Brown's theory have the virtue of focusing on large companies, and dividend-yield strategies work best with them, said James P. O'Shaughnessy, president of O'Shaughnessy Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn.
Among smaller companies, Mr. O'Shaughnessy said, a high dividend yield is frequently a warning that the outfit is in serious trouble. But with a bigger enterprise, investors are often simply getting a little extra when it is out of favor on Wall Street. That's because the giants "can weather any kind of storm," Mr. O'Shaughnessy said.
To be sure, investors have no guarantee that they will reel in a winner if they choose highest yielders only from huge caps. Since dividends tend to be steady, the reason for a high yield is often a low stock price that reflects -- perhaps validly -- the market's low opinion. The market may also value fast growth more than fat dividends for certain periods, like the late 1980's and early 1990's. Or the companies may be embroiled in lawsuits or other worrisome events.
To find the highest-yielding huge caps, Ms. Brown searched her data base of the 50 largest domestic stocks, which excludes limited partnerships and American depository receipts. As of Sept. 4, the 10 highest yielders -- all well-known names -- were in autos, energy and other mature industries, where growth can be slow, where there is less need to plow money back into the businesses and where shareholders get large dividends.
Combined with frequently low stock prices, these high dividends make for big dividend yields: while the average dividend yield for a company in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is 2.2, for example, the lowest-yielding of the 10, Chevron, has a 3.6 percent dividend yield. (None of these stocks rival the electric utilities, like Boston Edison, which yields 8.1 percent.)
Among the 10 companies, the highest-yielding is Philip Morris. It recently raised its annual dividend by a not-too-shabby 20 percent, and the stock has also dropped 16 percent in the last few months. As a result, its yield has risen to 5.3 percent.
"That's a cheap stock -- and it's cheap for a reason," said Steven Colton, a portfolio manager for Twentieth Century and Benham funds. Shunned by investors worried about tobacco litigation and government regulation or the ethics of selling cigarettes, the stock trades at just 13 times its earnings per share over the last 12 months, compared with a 19 multiple for the S.& P. 500. "There's a lot of event risk," conceded Mr. Colton, who does hold the stock. "It's not for the faint of heart."
Half of the 10 highest yielders are telephone companies: GTE, the local-telephone giant, and four Baby Bells -- Bell Atlantic, Ameritech, BellSouth and SBC Communications. The stocks have received less than a ringing endorsement on Wall Street because of the new telecommunications law. Many investors fear the law will lead to intense competition. Since February, when the bill was passed, telephone stocks have fallen an average of 22 percent.
Investors are also worried about rising interest rates, which would make any dividend-yielding stock less attractive, and are uncertain about the effect of the announced mergers between Bell Atlantic and Nynex, and Pacific Telesis and SBC Communications.
But these fears can spell opportunity. "People run from one side of the boat to the other," said William H. Reaves, who runs the Strong American Utilities fund and his own money management firm. Investor dislike of the stocks makes most of them "extremely attractively priced in relation to the market." Mr. Reaves, who looks for companies with a tradition of raising their dividends, is optimistic that many of the telephone companies that have done so, like Ameritech and SBC Communications, will continue to make such moves.
Mr. Rogers also is bullish on GTE, which has already entered the long-distance market, and many of the Baby Bells. "My hope is that investors will find in the new environment that these companies have quite good name recognition and service reputations," he said.
Ford, which has a yield of 4.8 percent and has raised its dividend five times over the last three years, is another stock bedeviled by uncertainty. Because of the fear of an economic slowdown or recession, the stock trades at just $31.875, or 11 times earnings per share over the last 12 months. Mr. Colton, who also owns General Motors and Chrysler, thinks that auto stocks are attractively priced and will fare much better in the next downturn than they have historically. "They're in much better shape than they were in the 1970's and 1980's," he said. "They're not making Pintos and Gremlins anymore."
A third of the 10 stocks are energy producers: Exxon, Amoco and Chevron. "They're very traditional and relatively safe yield vehicles," Mr. Rogers said. While the short-term volatility of oil and gas prices can affect the industry's stocks -- all of them rose briefly on the recent news about Iraq -- Mr. Rogers thinks they are good long-term holdings that offer investors some protection against inflation and market downturns.
It is easy to be intimidated by these giant companies, Ms. Brown acknowledged, but investors should not ignore them. "If you're not buying these stocks at all," she said, "you're making a big bet against the market." Instead of giving up, investors might try changing their bait.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Fat Check Is In Thee Mail" lists the top dividend yielders among the 50 biggest domestic corporations. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Prudential Securities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (51%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DIVIDENDS DIVIDENDS (89%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: BROWN, MELISSA R; ABELSON, REED MELISSA R BROWN (91%); JAMES P O'SHAUGHNESSY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



198 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
Big Stores Invite Mega-Sparring

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
A new proposal that would allow the giant box-shaped stores that have proliferated in the suburbs to open in New York City's waning industrial areas was debated last week at a packed public hearing held by the City Planning Commission.
Proponents called the stores "superstores" and said they would create jobs for the city, bring new life to manufacturing areas and keep shoppers from driving to the suburbs in search of bargains. 
 Opponents called them "big boxes" and "category killers" and said they would drain business from the commercial strips that are the lifeblood of many neighborhoods, create traffic hazards and cut citizens out of the public review process.
The plan would reverse 22 years of urban policy: current zoning, which restricts most stores larger than 10,000 square feet from opening in industrial areas, was passed in 1974 in an effort to preserve the city's dwindling manufacturing base. But industry has continued to leave, and suburban shopping malls have grown in popularity.
So the city developed a plan the would allow stores as large as 200,000 square feet to open "as of right," on wide streets in areas zoned for light and medium manufacturing. "As of right" means they would not have to go through a public review process.
The hearing Wednesday at City Hall certainly roused more passion than is usually seen at zoning hearings. Korean grocers held a loud demonstration outside, saying they would lose business. Neighborhood activists inside wore red-white-and-blue pins with slogans like "Keep Land Use Review," and complained the proposal would cut them out of the approval process. And more than 100 people signed up to speak, though many left, discouraged, when the meeting lasted longer than seven hours.
Mayoral politics took a front seat. The plan, which is supported by the Giuliani administration, was presented by Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter, who said it would keep New Yorkers from spending their money -- and sales tax dollars -- elsewhere.
"They are voting with their wheels, so to speak, by taking their business, worth billions of dollars, to suburban shopping malls," Ms. Reiter said. "There are those who say this is how it should be: suburban-style shopping belongs in the suburbs. But we say that the city cannot afford to send its business elsewhere."
Several of Mr. Giuliani's likely challengers, including Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer and Councilman Sal F. Albanese -- condemned the plan.
"If we pass these amendments," Ms. Messinger said, "it will be like firing a starter pistol for an 'Oklahoma land rush' for superstores in New York. The likely result is to invite new superstores that will take many more customers away from existing neighborhood stores than from suburban competitors."
Another public hearing is scheduled for Sept. 25. The planning commission will then vote to recommend that the Council ratify the plan, amend it or turn it down.
"Change is always difficult," said the Planning Commission chairman, Joseph B. Rose. "I believe that this plan has enough built-in protections that with some potential modifications at the margins, it will result in something that gets approved and will ultimately be of great benefit to the city." MICHAEL COOPER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "PUBLIC DISCOURSE: Super or Not?" lists arguments, pro and con, made at a public hearing on a City Planning Commission proposal to allow superstores to open in areas zoned for light and medium manufacturing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ZONING CITIES (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBURBS (90%); MAYORS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); POLITICS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); SALES TAX (61%); JOB CREATION (57%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL RUTH W MESSINGER (70%); FRAN REITER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



199 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Decision Time in Bosnia

BYLINE: By Misha Glenny; Misha Glenny, author of "The Fall of Yugoslavia," is writing a history of Balkan nationalism.

DATELINE: BRIGHTON, England

 BODY:
The king has deployed all his horses and all his men throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. The 55,000-strong, NATO-led military force will be joined this week by 1,200 election supervisors and 850 observers for the national election on Saturday. There are already countless nongovernmental organizations and freelance do-gooders also bracing themselves for the latest stage in the byzantine task of putting Humpty-Dumpty together again.
If successful, the countrywide elections should form what Richard C. Holbrooke, the architect of the Dayton agreement, has called the "connective tissue" that will once again bind Bosnia together. 
 Mr. Holbrooke is not the only one to have expressed high hopes for these elections. All the major European and American diplomats and politicians involved have insisted that despite criticism of the electoral process, the main vote must go ahead.
That criticism has been vigorous. Editorial writers have joined forces with such influential commentators as the financier and philanthropist George Soros and former Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic of Bosnia. All say roughly the same thing: that holding the elections will guarantee that Humpty remains dismembered and that the results of ethnic cleansing will be sanctioned by what is a bogus democratic gesture.
So who is right? The answer is neither or, if you prefer it, both.
Provided they do not collapse in administrative chaos, the elections will have some positive impact. They will confer a degree of democratic legitimacy on representatives of all communities. At present, after four and a half years of bloody war, no Bosnian politicians can claim to enjoy a popular mandate. In addition, the elections will lead to the establishment of joint institutions in which all three communities are committed to participate. This is the good side.
The bad side is that the minimum conditions as set down by the Dayton agreement for the holding of free elections do not yet exist. The absence of freedom of movement both between and inside the two entities in Bosnia will discourage people from voting in places whence they were forcibly expelled. Not even the most passionate advocates of the elections consider them "free and fair." Or if they say they do, they are either lying or politically illiterate.
But in reality, the election is neither good nor bad but a large red herring, trussed up at considerable expense to look like the choicest Scottish smoked salmon.
As the thousands of electoral observers and journalists are descending on Bosnia and Herzegovina in droves, they are in danger of overlooking the most significant political event since the disintegration of Yugoslavia turned violent in June 1991.
This took place on Aug. 23, when Croatia and the rump Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) signed an agreement recognizing each other and establishing full diplomatic relations. This document lays to rest the central dispute that originally provoked violence in the former Yugoslavia. The wars in both Croatia and Bosnia were attempts by the Serbs and Croats to establish their new nation-states by force. The Bosnian Muslims were, to their great misfortune, squeezed in between the two dominant nations and, additionally, ill-served by their leaders.
The Aug. 23 treaty means that Croatia and Serbia are no longer locked in a territorial dispute. Moreover, in the Dayton agreement, the international community granted them a controlling interest over large areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Seen from this angle, Humpty's prospects for reconstruction are bleak. This has but one great advantage: The big war in Bosnia is over because neither the Serbs nor the Croats want it, and because the Bosnian Muslims cannot wage war to regain territory in the light of that Serbo-Croat consensus.
This does not necessarily mean that we have witnessed the last of armed conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The map drawn up at Dayton, which split the country into two entities, includes several boundaries that remain hotly contentious and that could easily turn nasty. If they did, they would provoke vicious minor wars aimed at ironing out creases in the Dayton map and pressing the seams of territorial partition.
The alternative is to promote a process that is generally anathema to Western politicians -- a gradual stabilization of the country that would encourage first commercial cooperation between the communities and then economic integration. This is a decidedly unglamorous solution for a problem that has generated such passion as has Bosnia. Worse still, it requires a long-term military commitment from NATO.
This is not a Cyprus solution, as some critics would say. The topography of Bosnia insures that the three communities are much more dependent on one another's good will if they are to survive economically than are the Greeks and Turks of Cyprus.
Carl Bildt, the official responsible for carrying out the Dayton accord on the ground, told me in an interview last week that in order for integration to stand a chance, the West would need a force, with American ground troops, "at least until September 1998," which is when Bosnia's second postwar elections are due. The military presence would, of course, be much reduced from the 55,000 currently engaged in Bosnia, but it would be a serious commitment nonetheless. This assessment is substantially greater than anything President Clinton has been prepared to consider until now.
But that is the choice facing the Western world. If a complete pullout takes place within, say, a year, then the fate of Bosnia will be partition. The Bosnian Muslims will be in the weakest position, probably as an economic vassal of Croatia. Or the West can stay longer, diverting more financial and military resources to the region, offering a chance for some degree of integration. This is never likely to be complete, as the influence of both Serbia and Croatia will inevitably go beyond that normally associated with neighboring states.
But with support, Bosnia may develop a minimum number of institutions required to act as a coherent, internationally recognized state, enabling it to confront the more substantial question of reconciliation, which holds the final key to the country's long-term future.
If President Clinton and his European allies are committed to Bosnia, they are in for the long haul. Only then would the Bosnian vote make any sense at all. If, on the other hand, the West wants to pack its bags as soon as looks decent after the American Presidential elections in November, then the Bosnian election will be denounced by history as the most cynical manipulation of the democratic process by democratic countries. The tens of thousands of soldiers, civil servants and journalists, not to mention the billions in taxpayers' money, would be pawns in a chess game far more absurd than anything Lewis Carroll could ever have devised.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%); ELECTION MONITORING (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); WRITERS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (73%); GEORGE SOROS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996



200 of 714 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS;
Fishing for Rainbows in Semiprivate Paradise in Montana

BYLINE: By Peter Kaminsky 

 BODY:
The morning air smelled of warm, sweet cinnamon. Maybe it was the aroma of freshly mown hay mingling with the acres of wild mint along the bottom land of the Hanson Ranch on Sheep Creek in south central Montana. The night before, we had fished our way up a mile of lightly pressured stream and kept a few wild fish that I fried up and flaked over hash brown potatoes with peppers and frizzled onions.
Our fishing had been on semiprivate water: There is little truly private water in Montana, whose enlightened access laws allow the angler to wade up any stream bed he or she desires, if he or she feels up to miles of difficult and exhausting wading to get to the prime fishing. The Hansons, like a number of Montana's old ranch families, have begun to allow paying hunters and fishers onto their land. 
 My guide for a recent visit with some of these families was Doug McClelland, who teaches business law at Montana State University and is a former president of Trout Unlimited. He is also director of the fishing program at Off the Beaten Path, a company in Bozeman that specializes in arranging trips for visitors to the Rocky Mountains. Joining us was Laurance Aiuppy of Livingston, Mont., a photographer of life and wildlife in the Rockies.
One would think that a handful of anglers might not figure mightily in the business calculations of ranchers with spreads of 20,000 acres, but in fact, those ranchers who have opened their doors to recreational users for a fee find that their overall income has increased by an average of 5 percent. This is a significant amount in a low-margin business governed by the twin furies of nature and the market price of beef.
Edwin Nelson, whose family owns the fabled Nelson's Spring Creek, is proof that fee fishing can work for both angler and rancher. His is stunning water, full of huge fish that glow like red and gold ghosts against the rich green grass beds.
"Cattle ranching is great, but you can't make a living at it," he said. "If you're a rancher you need to have fishing, bird hunting or big-game hunting."
Across the river from Nelson, floods from the same Yellowstone that nourishes his springs have destroyed the four miles of water that made up Armstrong and Depuy's spring creeks, two trout-fishing jewels that provided precious spawning habitat for the rainbows and cutthroats on the mid Yellowstone. Young Todd O'Hair feels that his family's ranch will not survive if he is not allowed to restore the stream bed by erecting a levee across the encroaching side channel of the Yellowstone.
"To raise a cow costs about $360," he said. "This year, we will be lucky to get $350 for an animal. This ranch needs the spring creek, and the fishermen, to stay afloat. It's basic economics." O'Hair's restoration application is currently up before the Army Corps of Engineers.
But there are also a number of fly fishermen who oppose any channeling of any part of the Yellowstone, even though they agree that a great fishing resource is at stake.
From Paradise Valley, we drove north to the Hanson Ranch. The Hansons have taken in paying guests for about five years and they, too, report a stabilizing effect on the family economy. The guest book recorded reported 26-inch trout and grizzly bears. I saw neither. Still, we had Sheep Creek to ourselves and the pleasure of an old cabin all alone.
Following the morning of the cinnamon-scented air, we headed north, 50 miles along the gravel-surfaced Milligan Road. We came upon a missile silo guarded by a number of fierce-looking armored vehicles and fully armed soldiers.
Having just seen "Independence Day," I was sure they were battling some alien or at least vacuuming a warhead. I addressed the sergeant in command.
"I can't say," he advised. "But there is one thing I can say."
"What's that?" I asked.
"You have a flat tire."
The sergeant, Gene Kelly of Stony Point, N.Y., offered assistance, but Larry and Doug had things under control, so Kelly and I talked about trout fishing in the Missouri and crabbing in the Hudson while they worked away.
We moved on to a stream that I'll call Kitty Creek (the rancher preferred to stay out of the newspaper). Having been warned to keep an eye out for the rattlesnakes who have come down from the parched hills, we fished the smaller upper reaches of Kitty.
An Ausable Wulff produced three or four little trout. At that point, McClelland returned from an upper pool and advised me to put on a hopper. I did and instantly caught a half dozen rainbows. The biggest was 16 inches and the smallest not much smaller. For the next hour, I experienced glorious Montana fishing that included two fat brown trout of 15 and 17 inches.
We made our way to the challenging (and public) tailwaters of the Missouri, which were alive with impressive rises to teeny flies. Aiuppy, McClelland and I -- with a hundred years of collective flyrod experience -- cast a thousand times and we each succeeded in hooking, but not landing, one fish. It was a humbling counterpoint to the ingenues of the ranch streams.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fisherman netting rainbow trout on Depuy's Spring Creek in Montana. (Aiuppy Photographs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (98%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); 

COMPANY: OFF THE BEATEN PATH LLC (55%); MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); TROUT UNLIMITED (55%); TROUT UNLIMITED (55%); MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); TROUT UNLIMITED (55%); TROUT UNLIMITED (55%); MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MONTANA, USA (98%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TROUT; FISHING, SPORT SPORT FISHING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); FISHES (90%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); FAMILY (88%); WILDLIFE (78%); RIVERS (77%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); BEEF (69%); MOUNTAINS (66%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (63%); 

PERSON: KAMINSKY, PETER DOUG MCCLELLAND (61%); EDWIN NELSON (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996

 
