

1 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2978 words

HEADLINE: Susanna Clarke's Magic Book

BYLINE: By John Hodgman. 
John Hodgman is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
'I wanted to write about magicians,'' Susanna Clarke said as we climbed a high moor in Derbyshire. ''I really like magicians,'' she went on, with a wry, apologetic dignity, as if it were an affliction she was born with. ''But there was no reason to suppose anyone else would.''
 It was a cool, gray evening, and Clarke's luminous silver hair was still damp from a sudden rain that had come and passed. Her partner, the science-fiction and fantasy novelist and critic Colin Greenland, had gotten far ahead of us. They have been vacationing here for six years, hiking these steep hills and wooded cloughs in the very south of the north of England. They are both beer enthusiasts and punctuate their ramblings with long digressions in local pubs. Normally they live together in Cambridge, where Clarke worked as a cookbook editor for many years. But now she wore the comfortable clothes and comfortable air of someone who has left her day job forever. Because after 10 years, she has finally finished her novel, ''Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell,'' and it will be published this September. 
 It follows the friendship of two gentleman sorcerers in London in the early 19th century: the bookish Mr. Norrell and his pupil, the dilettante Jonathan Strange, who come to the aid of England in the Napoleonic Wars by, for example, moving Brussels to America. And it is about a third magician, the Raven King, a human brought up by fairies who came to rule Northern England through much of the Middle Ages before suddenly disappearing, taking magic away from England and closing the fairy roads behind him.
 The novel is being compared with abandon in the press to the ''Harry Potter'' books, but it is not for children, unless they are children who really, really love footnotes. It is nearly 800 pages long, but in some ways that number feels arbitrary, as if the novel consisted of just those pages Clarke chose to show, and that she might have easily chosen another 800 from those she kept in reserve. She has lived in the world of the novel for more than a decade after all, carefully charting the false history of English magic and documenting it with citations from a fastidiously false bibliography. What did not make it into the main story is alluded to in copious notes that make up sort of a second novel at the bottom of its pages (when they do not take over the pages altogether).
 Clarke is equally meticulous in the research she has not made up, which has produced an observant and often very funny comment on the stiff mores of regency England: when Mr. Norrell comes to restore magic to England and becomes a reluctant celebrity, it is not so much that London is enthralled with magic as it is enthralled with the same old spells -- the lure of notoriety, the cultivation of social status.
 In short, it is a patient, grown-up novel of dueling wizards. As much as this spells crowd-pleaser to me, I would have considered this something for a niche crowd. But Bloomsbury is betting I am wrong, publishing some 250,000 hardcover copies simultaneously in the United States, Britain and Germany, with 17 foreign publishers currently finishing their translations. 
 ''What happened when I was writing 'Strange & Norrell,''' Clarke said on the moor, ''was the world kind of changed in my favor.''
When Clarke's first story was published, she almost didn't know about it. In 1993, she had just turned 33 and had returned to England after a stint teaching English in Italy and Spain with a mind to write a novel about magicians. And being a serious, responsible person, she signed up for a five-day residential course in writing fantasy and science fiction. The co-instructor, Colin Greenland, was a renowned critic and champion of the genre who had long argued that it be taken seriously as literature, which Clarke appreciated. She also liked that in his novel ''Harm's Way,'' he had written about satellites made of wrought iron and so might have a feel for what she was doing.
 But he wanted all the students to submit short stories before the course began, ''which annoyed me,'' she said when they picked me up at the train station, apparently unconcerned about offending Greenland. ''I wasn't working on short stories. I was working on a novel.''
 At the time, she wrote, and still does, in fragments: bits of dialogue and sketches of scenes that come to her as if they were overheard. (Sometimes she will be sitting in a pub and start scribbling in notebooks as Greenland waits.) Even by then she had amassed ''great bundles'' of material.
 But being diligent, she didn't complain. So she culled from the bundles something resembling a short story, and she called it ''The Ladies of Grace Adieu.'' It was about three otherwise respectable women who secretly practiced magic -- including the governess, Miss Tobias, who was ''too tall, too fond of books, too grave and -- a curious thing -- never smiled unless there was some thing to smile at'' -- and are discovered by the famous magician of London Jonathan Strange.
 Greenland liked the story so much that he sent part of it to his friend Neil Gaiman, the fantasy novelist and comic-book writer. Greenland helped Gaiman publish his first short story many years before, and now he wanted to share another exciting new writer with the world. He didn't tell Clarke. He was afraid that she might have stopped him, because Gaiman was one of her favorite writers. 
 ''It was terrifying from my point of view to read this first short story that had so much assurance,'' Gaiman recalled. ''It was like watching someone sit down to play the piano for the first time and she plays a sonata.''
 But Clarke's life had prepared her for her work. Reared by Methodist ministers, she grew up moving from congregation to congregation, from Glasgow to Staffordshire to Yorkshire to Nottinghamshire. And because she was not really of any particular place, she chose one: the wilder landscape and poverty-born practicality of the north, which she preferred to the cosmopolitan southern cities, where, she recalled, when she went to Oxford to study philosophy, politics and economics, some people actually owned two pairs of boots. 
 She read the historical fiction of Rosemary Sutcliff and the fantasies of Ursula Le Guin and Alan Garner and especially came to love Jane Austen. In secondary school, the headmaster asked her what she wanted to do, and she told him she wanted to be a writer. ''Apparently that was not what he meant,'' she said. ''He meant, What do you want to do in the next three minutes?''
 By the time she reached Greenland's class, she had worked in publishing and written most of two novels, one about angels who visit Liverpool wearing black suits and white shoes (it was the New Romantic period of the 80's, she explained sheepishly) and the other a detective novel. And she had long been dreaming of the arrogant young magician who would first appear as Jonathan Strange in ''The Ladies of Grace Adieu.'' 
 After Gaiman received the story, he showed it to his friend Patrick Nielsen Hayden, who in the mid-90's was assembling a highly anticipated anthology of new science fiction and fantasy called ''Starlight 1.'' Clarke did not hear about any of this until she came home one day and heard Hayden's voice on her machine, offering to publish her.
 Clarke called back and said she would consider it. She was concerned that it might hinder her main goal: the novel, which she had started in earnest just before enrolling in Greenland's class. Finally, ''I made poor Patrick Nielsen Hayden write this letter saying that if I did want to put this story in the novel, I could.'' Then she agreed. 
 In the anthology's contributors' notes, Clarke wrote that she ''spends most of her time editing cookbooks and watching people take photographs of food.'' In fact, she had joined in ''Starlight 1'' a group of accomplished science-fiction and fantasy writers (including one Nebula award winner and one woman who had written more than 170 books) and, as well, a larger community of magician lovers: the passionate, prolific, happily weird and somewhat self-contained otherworld of ''the genre.''
 She contributed to several other anthologies, including ''Starlight 2'' and ''Starlight 3,'' and was discussed and praised on Internet bulletin boards devoted to fantasy fiction in general and fairy-tale fiction specifically. She fell in love with Greenland and coaxed him up to Cambridge from London, where he had been living for years in a house known for having no heating and being a sort of colony for science-fiction writers. And she went back to working on her novel. 
 This is a happy ending for a fantasy writer, I would think. But it wasn't to be her ending. 
'The two most successful commercial franchises that have come into the book and entertainment worlds over the last five years are 'Harry Potter' and 'Lord of the Rings,''' the literary agent Simon Lipskar said. ''Anyone who's going to be honest about that is going to see a marketplace that's rewarding fantasy.'' 
 Fantasy has not, of course, been absent from literary fiction, but it has been admitted to the mainstream generally only when pedigreed (Martin Amis's ''Time's Arrow''), political (Margaret Atwood's ''Handmaid's Tale'') or exotic (which is to say, Latin American). Fantasy and science fiction as a capital G genre, meanwhile, has largely been shelved separately from the rest of the culture, in part because of the genre's mania for self-classification into ever-narrower niches (high fantasy versus alternate history, hard science fiction versus space opera, cyberpunk versus steampunk) and in part because of pure snobbery.
 Still, it is hard to deny a sense that the boundaries between genre and literary fiction are slipping. Gaiman's ''American Gods,'' in which an ex-con joins the Norse god Odin on a road trip, was marketed as a mainstream thriller. Philip Roth is just about to publish his alternate history novel, ''The Plot Against America.'' And Kelly Link's self-published ''Stranger Things Happen,'' with its ghosts and giant dogs and men with tin noses, was named among the best books of the year by Salon at the end of 2001.
 Around this time, Susanna Clarke had begun to despair. She had been working on the book for several years, and, as she wrote to me, ''Colin and I agreed the time was right to find an agent when the whole burden of carrying this huge unfinished book became too heavy for just the two of us.''
 Giles Gordon took her on and in early 2003 sold the still unfinished manuscript to Bloomsbury, which quickly snapped up world rights based largely on a reader's report that Bloomsbury would later circulate at the London Book Fair and that began, ''This book so captivated and riveted me that I'm charging half the full fee.'' 
 When Bloomsbury acquired the rights to publish ''Harry Potter,'' its division in the United States did not yet exist, so the American market -- and the fortune it generated -- went to Scholastic instead. Clarke's book will be the first novel Bloomsbury will publish in a coordinated worldwide campaign across its three branches in Britain, the United States and Germany.
 Clarke's acquiring editors in Britain and America weren't particular fans of magic. As Karen Rinaldi, publisher at Bloomsbury U.S.A., said, ''You just read it and say, 'Damn, it's great, it's long, it's fantasy and I'm going to publish it.'''
 A fantasy novel used to be able to rely on perhaps 7,500 dedicated hardcover readers. Nearly that many advanced readers' copies have been circulated already, a select number of them wrapped in paper and sealed in wax with an image of a raven. They have been selling for more than $100 on eBay in England, a fact noted with some awed amusement by Greenland. 
 This sort of push by a publisher is not so unusual for a big first novel. But it is curious for a big first novel about dueling magicians that is uncompromisingly literary without being shy about taking the genre seriously. And her novel is being published with none of the fantasy trappings, none of the comforting camouflage that it is for children. It is being published, well, like a regular book.
 ''We are now in the conditions that a lot of us spent the 80's working for and demanding,'' Greenland said, ''which is a very large crossover between adult and children's fiction, genre and mainstream fiction.''
 On the other hand, he said, there is some apprehension as well. As Kelly Link said of Clarke's success: ''It makes me very, very glad, and also a bit worried. It's too close to my idea of the way things ought to be.''
 Greenland told me, ''Somebody actually said on a Web site, 'I hope this novel lives up to all the hype, because if not, it's going to be a big setback for all fantastic historical crossover writers.'''
 He raised his eyebrows, waiting for me to complete the joke. ''Both of them?''
You learn a lot of things when you are writing a book for 10 years. At a pub called the Three Stags' Heads, Clarke easily switched between conversations on ''The X-Files'' and Wellington's cavalry. When we were shown the preserved cat that was said to have been found in the pub's wall, where it had been bricked in generations before to ward off evil spirits, Clarke pointed out that in East Anglia, it would have been far more likely to find a horse's head: ''Horse magic had much more of a hold there.''
 Later, she said, ''One way of grounding the magic is by putting in lots of stuff about street lamps, carriages and how difficult it is to get good servants.'' So her apartment is challenged by bookcases full of soldiers' accounts of Waterloo, the social anthropology of George Ewart Evans and dozens of slim books on such subjects as styles of visiting cards and mausoleums.
 ''I love books about very small things,'' she said. When a certain character draws a knife from a well-laid table near the end of the novel and holds it to a man's throat, ''I had to restrain myself from buying a book on 19th-century fruit knives.''
 This makes Clarke a great person to share a pint with. She can also be disarming in her candor and her kindness, evidenced by the fact that she invited me on vacation with her and Greenland and constantly inquired as to my ability to keep up with them on the moors and gave me a hot water bottle at night. 
 Sometimes when I talked about her writing, though, her face grew calm as stone, and I felt like a very unsmiled-at thing. And when I complimented her on how plausibly she had conjured the idea that England was ruled for hundreds of years by a mysterious vanished magician king, her reaction made me wonder if I had read the wrong book, and she looked concerned, as though she were trying to come up with a polite way of telling me that that was true. Later she told me that she was gauging my reaction against her intent: to wrap the surreal in the mundane. But I also knew she had written the book alone, over countless early mornings before going to work. And while I did not get the impression that she didn't appreciate praise, it did seem that she was one of those rare writers who no longer required it. 
After our beer at the Stags', we walked through a deep valley, called, appropriately, Ravensdale, that was full of shadow and sharp-smelling wild garlic and had a tiny hamlet at the bottom that seemed almost to be abandoned. In a few weeks, Clarke would go to Chicago for BookExpo America, the big annual trade show. It would be only the second time she had been to America, and perhaps because Greenland was once again far ahead of us, she explained that the only thing she was ambivalent about was being there without the person who knows her best in the world.
 Otherwise, she seemed eerily prepared for her moment. I asked her how she felt when it became clear that this was to be a worldwide publishing event. At first it was surprising, she said, ''but when you hear that they've sold Sweden, and then you hear that they've sold Finland, suddenly you say, 'What about Norway!'''
 Now Clarke told us we would climb to the top, and the three of us attacked the valley's steep side. I was frankly shocked by the effort: it felt like walking up a mossy, earthy wall. Greenland also seemed overwhelmed, falling back with me as Clarke moved indomitably upward. Finally we reached the sunny top. Greenland and I each took a puff off my asthma inhaler, and Clarke said, ''I am very proud of you both.'' 
 Earlier, Greenland told me that he felt he had accomplished two things in life: discovering Neil Gaiman and discovering Susanna Clarke. To which Clarke scoffed, ''You discovered both of us by the difficult process of having us put our work in front of you and saying, 'Read this.'''
 ''My job here was to open two envelopes and read the contents,'' he said. ''And I did it.''
 I then asked Clarke whether she ever thought of herself as fantasy's flag bearer, sent out by Greenland and Gaiman and all those others to conquer the mainstream.
 ''No,'' she said, laughing. ''And I'll thank you not to suggest it.''
 In the fall, she will undertake a punishing tour of the United States and Canada and then Germany, and then return to the United States. But at this moment, she was relaxing, reading about Egypt, its gods and antiquities, and pondering her next book, which will be set in the same world as ''Strange & Norell'' and will need to be written in much less time than a decade. ''I have a bit of a problem now that the fairy roads are all open,'' she confessed. ''What do I do with them?''
 Back at the top of Ravensdale, we climbed over another wall and set out over another field. The farmers here are charged with keeping a public path clear for hikers, and in front of us, diagonally across the sun-battered field, was a great luminous green stripe of turf. Greenland and I were hesitating before the path. But now Clarke was ahead of us, and we followed her.



GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Polly Borland)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (88%); FANTASY LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (75%); LITERATURE (75%); LITERARY CRITICISM (70%); BEER & ALE (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%) Books and Literature; Biographical Information

PERSON: John Hodgman; Susanna Clarke

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



2 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Ballpark Hums, but Not the Neighborhood; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: Coney Island, Once a Wonderland of Whimsy, Is Still Waiting for a Rebirth

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
It was the bottom of the ninth of a scoreless game under a canopy of threatening black clouds, but the thousands of fans who had traveled from throughout New York City to Coney Island to watch the Brooklyn Cyclones play the Williamsport Crosscutters did not seem to mind. The 7,500-seat stadium was about three-quarters full, and when outfielder Ambiorix Concepcion sneaked in a run, stealing two bases and making it home on a wild pitch, the crowd erupted. 
 When the game was over, most fans filed to their cars, in a vast parking lot west of the stadium, though some stopped at Nathan's for a hot dog on the way to the subway. 
 ''People come here for the ballgame, and then they leave,'' said Heshy Wiederman, who lives in Seagate, a gated community at the western end of Coney Island. ''It's like Yankee Stadium. You go to a game, and then you go home.'' 
 From a sports perspective, the Cyclones are clearly a huge success. By the middle of this season, its fourth, the team had sold a million tickets, making it one of the most successful teams in minor league baseball. And psychologically, the stadium has given a flagging neighborhood a big boost, prompting talk of a Coney Island revival and drawing thousands of new visitors who not long ago might have written off the fabled resort as a crime-ridden, filthy place, which for many years it was. 
 ''This was one of the biggest July Fourths we have seen in a long time'' said Carol Hill-Albert, who along with her husband owns Astroland, one of two amusement parks that are the legacy of the 1920's and 30's, when such parks dominated the peninsula and thrilled 15 million visitors a season. ''The Boardwalk was literally jammed, you could barely walk on it. Something is changing, something is happening. There is an excitement I haven't seen in a long time.'' 
 But from an economic development point of view, the return on the city's $39 million investment in the Cyclones is less clear. When the stadium was being built, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani predicted that the team would ''serve as a catalyst to the revitalization of Coney Island, much as Disney's investment on 42nd Street helped turn Times Square around.'' 
 That has not happened. The Cyclones have given the existing amusements at Coney Island a leg up -- the number of riders on the Cyclone roller coaster shoots up by about 30 percent after a win by the Cyclones, but by only about 15 percent when they lose, Ms. Hill-Albert said, and the hot-dog lines at Nathan's can be daunting. 
 But one look at the empty buildings and vacant lots along Surf Avenue reveals that the stadium has yet to spark a wholesale revitalization of Coney Island or to create a significant number of jobs. 
 Indeed, much of Coney Island, the ragged thumb to Brooklyn's patchwork mitten for half a century, remains in the same state of suspended animation it has been stuck in since the 1970's, when the bottom dropped so far that part of Coney Island's bombed-out streetscape became a set for ''The Warriors,'' a violent film tale of a bloodthirsty New York street gang ruling ruthlessly over an urban wasteland. Those days are long gone -- crime is down more than 70 percent from a decade ago, a drop mirrored throughout the city. But the barren streetscape remains, owing at least in part to a handful of property owners who have held vacant land and buildings in the neighborhood for decades. 
 ''There are a lot of obstacles to development in Coney Island,'' said Charles Denson, whose book, ''Coney Island: Lost and Found,'' chronicles the rise, fall and nascent rebirth of the neighborhood where he grew up. ''There is a lot of unused land, but it is very tightly controlled by a few property owners, some of whom are rational and others who are not. Some have good intentions and others are just waiting for a big payday.''
 Peter Agrapides, the 68-year-old owner of Pete's Clam Stop, a local institution, gestured at the empty Shore Theater opposite his store, part of a row of derelict structures on the north side of Surf Avenue. ''They have been empty for many, many years,'' he said. ''I hope I'll live long enough to see it all rebuilt again like it used to be.'' In the old days, Kister's Carousel whirled, the towers of Luna Park glittered, and mile-long roller coasters climbed to the heavens, a spectacle that prompted one visitor to write in 1904, ''Verily this is Dreamland, and one rubs one's eyes and pinches one's arm to see if one be really awake.''
 Public investment has flooded the neighborhood. The grim portal that was the Stillwell Avenue subway terminal will become, when it is completed next year, one of the grandest subway stations in the city, with a price tag of about a quarter-billion dollars. It will be the first major new building on the north side of Surf Avenue, giving the street a much needed face-lift. The Boardwalk has new bathrooms from the Parks Department, and the New York Aquarium is working on an expansion with a shark exhibit. 
 But private investment in the neighborhood has been harder to come by. Despite whispers that Disney is looking at one vacant lot, or that a hotel might rise on another, no shovels are close to hitting the dirt.
 ''We read in the newspaper that Coney Island has a big future,'' said Vladimir Zats, who has been selling antiques and bric-a-brac on Surf Avenue for more then 20 years and hears each new plan to revitalize Coney Island with a little more skepticism. ''But it isn't here yet.'' 
 In September 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg formed the Coney Island Development Corporation, to spark ideas and attract investment to the neighborhood, and he put one of the city's top economic development officials at its helm. The corporation is now meeting with residents, businesses and community groups to come up with a master plan for the neighborhood.
 It is not the first time city officials have set their sights on remaking this corner of Brooklyn. In the 1930's, New York's controversial master builder, Robert Moses, who hated Coney Island's honky-tonk atmosphere, set his sights on making it more like his beloved Jones Beach, a tranquil resort on Long Island that he had completed the decade before. He tore down ornate restaurants and bathhouses to make room for more beach, and over the next two decades the city rezoned much of the vast amusement district for low-income housing and erected glowering towers of drab brick that still dominate. With few jobs to support the huge influx of poor people, the neighborhood that had once amused millions quickly descended into despair, becoming a place of violent drug gangs and prostitution. 
 This time the city hopes to get it right. It has hired a battery of consultants to develop a master plan that they hope will transform a still seedy, seasonal destination that relies on nostalgia to draw visitors to a small set of attractions, into a shining year-round entertainment mecca.
 ''Coney Island is an extraordinary resource that frankly can be doing much more than it is,'' said Joshua Sirefman, chairman of the development corporation and chief operating officer of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. ''We are trying to figure out what the right kind of development is, how to increase economic activity and make it a year-round destination by enhancing what's there and making a place that can both serve as regional attraction but also work well with the neighborhood around it.''
 The corporation hopes to build on the baseball stadium's popularity and find ways to link it to the slow but steady revival already taking place here -- among the hordes of magenta-haired hipsters who came for a recent alternative rock festival, dozens of sets of twins who came for what was billed as the world's largest gathering of twins, and thousands of families from across the city wanting to taste a little bit of that old carnival magic. 
 For these visitors, Coney Island has slowly become what it once was -- a wonderland by the sea, just a subway ride from the stifling heat of the city, packed with whimsy that can be found nowhere else but on this oddball peninsula. 
 ''To me, Coney Island is magical,'' said Roman Macia, a preschool teacher from Dallas who rode the subway from the Upper West Side to eat a Nathan's hot dog and stroll on the Boardwalk on a drizzly Tuesday afternoon. When he was a little boy growing up in Camaguey, Cuba, he said, his grandmother would regale him with tales of visiting the Boardwalk in the 1930's. He never forgot the stories, and comes back whenever he can. ''I always come here when I am in New York, no matter what.''
 Some people credit the Cyclones for putting for Coney Island back on the map. But many in the neighborhood say that other factors also played a role, including the drastic drop in crime and the overall improvement in the economy, which gave the working-class families that are the mainstay of Coney Island's amusement industry the cash to spend on a day at the beach and on the Boardwalk. 
 ''I'm glad that they are here because they forced the city to pay attention to Coney Island,'' said Dick Zigun, artistic director of Coney Island USA, a nonprofit arts group that runs Sideshows by the Seashore and a museum and organizes the annual Mermaid Parade. ''With their short season, they draw about 300,000 people, which is hardly a drop in the bucket. We get that many people in a day at the Mermaid Parade.''
 And Coney Island's rebirth will have to contend with the social ills that cling to its seashore. Public housing still dominates the neighborhood and crime has not disappeared entirely. Last month, a notorious drug dealer was gunned down at the corner of Mermaid Avenue and 24th Street. Standing at the desolate corner near a street tribute to the dealer, who was known as Dada, Verzon Fonville, a 35-year-old former drug dealer and felon turned community activist, said change had come slowly to the western, most populated end of Coney Island. 
 ''They talk about rebuilding, but west of Stillwell it is a very different story,'' Mr. Fonville said, gesturing at the knots of teenagers congregated on Mermaid Avenue's litter-strewn corners. ''The kids around here have nowhere to go. There are no jobs for the people who live here. The revival hasn't gotten here yet.'' 
 Still, longtime Coney Island residents and business people say the neighborhood's current upswing differs from the nostalgia-fueled hope that opens each sunshiny season, only to be dashed when Labor Day rolls around and the receipts are counted. 
 ''Right now there is a lot of optimism,'' said Judi Orlando, director of Astella Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization that has built low cost single-family houses in Coney Island for 25 years. ''People believe that this could be it, the moment they have been waiting for.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cyclones bring thousands to KeySpan Park, but most fans don't linger in Coney Island -- or spend their money there. Desolation marks the end of 16th Street near the stadium. (Photographs by Michelle Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 25)
 ''The revival hasn't gotten here yet,'' said Verzon Fonville, above, a former drug dealer who is now a community activist. Sideshows by the Seashore, on Surf Avenue, right, is striving for revival -- of business. (Photographs by Michelle Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 28)Map of Brooklyn highlighting Coney Island: Coney Island, the thumb to the mitten of Brooklyn, used to draw millions to its spectacles: ocean beaches, roller coasters and carousels. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BASEBALL (91%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ATHLETES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Baseball; Stadiums and Arenas; Minor Leagues

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Brooklyn Cyclones; New York Aquarium; Coney Island Development Corp

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (57%) Michael Brick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Coney Island (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



3 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: All Those Profits Were Good News for Stocks

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Buoyed by strong corporate earnings, the stock market rose last week despite soaring oil prices and a report on Friday that economic growth in the second quarter had slowed unexpectedly.
 The Commerce Department reported on Friday that the gross domestic product rose at a 3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, lower than expected. 
Also on Friday, the price of crude oil reached $43.85 a barrel in New York. But none of this news dented the mood of investors. The three major industrial averages closed higher for the day and for the week.
 Boston Scientific, the maker of stents for arteries, rose 14 percent for the week, the best performer in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. It said second-quarter profit nearly tripled. JDS Uniphase and United States Steel were also among companies whose stocks rose after they reported strong earnings. 
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 rose 15.52 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 1,101.72. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 177.49 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 10,139.71. The Nasdaq composite index gained 38.27 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 1,887.36. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.47 percent from 4.43 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Krispy KremeNYSE: KKDShares of the doughnut maker sank more than 15 percent Thursday after the company said federal regulators were looking into its franchise repurchases and its recent profit warning.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.74WEEK'S CHANGE: -13.56%EST. '04 P/E: 15.92Coca-Cola EnterprisesNYSE: CCEThe biggest bottler for Coke missed second-quarter earnings goals due to higher costs and poor summer weather in Europe, and it warned of a difficult third quarter.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.40WEEK'S CHANGE: -18.89%EST. '04 P/E: 13.78BrunswickNYSE: BCThe maker of bowling, billiards and fitness equipment said its quarterly profit soared 68 percent, and it also raised its full-year earnings estimates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.03WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.99%EST. '04 P/E: 14.85ConneticsNNM: CNCTThe dermatology-focused pharmaceutical maker said its revenue nearly doubled in the second quarter, far surpassing Wall Street's estimates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.53WEEK'S CHANGE: +22.74%EST. '04 P/E: 53.25Gilead SciencesNNM: GILDThe biopharmaceutical company reported an 11 percent jump in net income, primarily driven by robust sales of Viread, a drug that is used to treat H.I.V. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $64.64WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.08%EST. '04 P/E: 42.14U.S. SteelNYSE: XThe Pittsburgh company swung to a profit in the second quarter and said that it expected strong results through the end of the year on surging demand and higher prices.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.14WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.57%EST. '04 P/E: 7.17Nu SkinNYSE: NUSThe direct seller of personal-care products raised its earnings outlook for the year after reporting strong growth, especially in China, where sales nearly doubled in its latest period.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.31WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.46%EST. '04 P/E: 24.00AvayaNYSE: AVThe largest maker of Internet telephone equipment said its net income was up sevenfold in its fiscal third quarter.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $14.65WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.57%EST. '04 P/E: 29.60(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%) Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (57%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (56%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (57%); X (NYSE) (56%); JDU (TSX) (56%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



4 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2514 words

HEADLINE: Coulda, Woulda, Shoulda

BYLINE: By JIM RASENBERGER. 
Jim Rasenberger is the author of ''High Steel: The Daring Men Who Built the World's Greatest Skyline,'' published earlier this year by HarperCollins.

 BODY:
AT the far end of West 57th Street, across the West Side Highway from the car dealerships and construction sites, a Department of Sanitation pier stretches out into the Hudson River. The garbage trucks parked along the edge of the highway emit a rank, slightly fruity odor that assumes an almost material thickness on warm summer days. Small birds dart among the trucks, pecking at scraps.
 The pier is not especially picturesque, but it's an ideal perspective from which to contemplate the fate of once-grand schemes discarded into the dustbin of history. It was here, in the 1920's, that the structural engineer Gustav Lindenthal came close to building the greatest bridge in the world.
 Mr. Lindenthal's bridge would have crossed the Hudson River from West 57th Street to Weehawken, N.J., a 7,460-foot double-decked structure with a center span of 3,240 feet, far longer than any span raised at the time. It would have provided 16 lanes for automobiles on the top deck and 12 rail tracks on the lower deck and would have been supported by two immense towers, each taller than the Woolworth Building, then the world's tallest skyscraper. The bridge would have been a structure of such record-breaking enormity, it would have instantly ranked as a defining icon of New York. 
 But the bridge was never built. And now, instead of a view of an icon, the western end of 57th Street offers a parking lot for garbage trucks.
 At a time when New York City is awash in big plans -- from the billion-dollar Freedom Tower to the $6.5 billion overhaul of Manhattan's West Side; from the revived Second Avenue subway line to the rail tunnel that Governor Pataki hopes to bore under the East River -- it is both illuminating and instructive to consider the fate of earlier big plans that arrived with much fanfare and promise, only to fizzle. 
 Collectively, these unrealized blueprints form a Manhattan of the imagination, a phantom metropolis of breathtaking and, in some cases, rash constructions that make even Mr. Lindenthal's bridge, not to mention a little thing like a football stadium, appear modest by comparison. The unbuilt city hovers alongside present-day New York, existing only in the subjunctive tense: the city that coulda-woulda-shoulda been. 

Elevated Sidewalks of New York
 Any appreciation of the subjunctive city must begin in the 1920's, the booming decade that spawned so many extravagant plans for New York. Some of these plans were brilliant; others seemed to have been hatched during a champagne binge. Several, such as the Empire State Building and the George Washington Bridge, were realized. Most were not.
 In 1924, the influential architect Harvey Wiley Corbett announced a plan to transform all of Midtown Manhattan into a multitiered grid, in which sidewalks would be elevated a full story off the ground and streets would be given over entirely to automobile traffic. The plan was not just practical, Mr. Corbett insisted, but necessary. Segregating cars and pedestrians was the only sensible solution to the overwhelming problem of traffic congestion. As an additional benefit, the terraced city would be a more beautiful and beguiling place, according to a report issued by Mr. Corbett and others: ''a modernized Venice, a city of arcades, piazzas and bridges, with canals for streets, only the canals will not be filled with water but with freely flowing motor traffic.'' 
 A year later, Raymond Hood, the architect who had already designed the American Radiator Building and would soon design much of Rockefeller Center, conceived a plan to hang apartment houses from the cables of the city's suspension bridges. 
 As rendered by the illustrator Hugh Ferriss in his 1929 classic of visionary architecture, ''The Metropolis of Tomorrow,'' these ''bridge apartment houses'' remain among the most wonderfully outlandish of New York's hypothetical structures. Like Mr. Corbett before him, though, Hood maintained that his ideas were sound both economically and structurally. ''The moment one begins to speculate on the possibility of erecting apartment houses on our bridges,'' Mr. Hood told The New York Times, ''the thought comes that it is strange we have not always had them.'' 
 The Times agreed that Mr. Hood's plan had much to recommend it. ''From the standpoint of sheer beauty, of startling picturesqueness, nobody can deny the fascination of these bridge communities,'' the newspaper mused, admiring, among other aspects of the plan, the possibilities for water sports. ''Facilities could easily be provided for descending to the water level, attired in bathing suits for the daily dip.'' 

Far-Fetched but Nearly Realized
 In retrospect, it may seem obvious that the ambitions of both Mr. Corbett and Mr. Hood were too grandiose to succeed. Then again, if grandiosity were an impediment to development in New York, there would be no Rockefeller Center, no Brooklyn Bridge, no Central Park, no subway system. New York, for better or worse, is all about grandiosity.
 There is no evidence that anyone ever seriously considered erecting such a bridge as Hood envisioned or undertaking Corbett's multitiered city. But plenty of far-fetched schemes have earned the attention of serious minds and powerful wills.
 In 1923, the Rev. Christian Reisner of the Methodist Church in Washington Heights, convinced that he was complying with the will of God Himself, unfurled plans to build a 40-story church at Broadway and West 173rd Street. Plans for the so-called Broadway Temple specified a 2,000-seat nave, a five-story basement complete with swimming pool and bowling alley, and a 75-foot-high rotating cross on its summit. In addition to divine inspiration, Mr. Reisner received $100,000 from John D. Rockefeller Jr. for the church's construction. Only the Depression quashed the plan. 
 Another man of the cloth to try his hand at development in the 1920's was the Rev. William Norman Guthrie of St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery in the East Village. Mr. Guthrie commissioned Frank Lloyd Wright to design a residential tower on church grounds at Second Avenue and 10th Street. Wright, whose ambitions were seldom modest, came back with a plan for four identical towers. 
 Just 13 stories apiece, the buildings would not have raised the skyline, but they would surely have raised eyebrows. Wright modeled his buildings on trees, each floor cantilevering out from a central core like branches from a trunk. At a time when tall buildings in New York were almost exclusively post-and-beam structures, the idea of dispensing with exterior columns was near heresy. So, too, was Wright's intention to build in reinforced concrete when virtually every tall building was supported by steel.
 ''It was an entirely new structure,'' said Hillary Ballon, professor of art history at Columbia University and curator of a Frank Lloyd Wright exhibit that will open at the Skyscraper Museum in October. ''American progress was embodied by the steel frame building. And here's someone who comes along and says: 'That's not the way to build. It makes no sense.'''
 Whatever chance Wright had of overcoming concerns about his design disappeared, like so many architectural dreams, when money for the project evaporated in the stock market crash of 1929.

On Broadway
 Soaring skyscrapers and sweeping bridges have long provided the most visually striking designs for the city, but nothing inspires urban visionaries so dependably as the conundrum of rapid transit: namely, how to get millions of people from one place to another quickly. A 1900 plan for the Williamsburg Bridge featured a ''moving sidewalk'' to carry pedestrians across the steel-ribbed span from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to Hanover Square in Lower Manhattan in less than 15 minutes. 
 And in 1951, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company lobbied -- unsuccessfully -- to build a conveyor between Times Square and Grand Central that would have whisked passengers under Midtown in translucent six-seater ''transfer cars,'' station to station, in two minutes. 
 The most tantalizing human conveyor of all was the ''Endless Traveling or Railway Sidewalk,'' an elevated loop proposed in 1873 by the inventor Alfred Speer for operation on lower Broadway. According to Mr. Speer's plan, passengers would climb stairs to a platform and step into a small car, which would then deposit them onto a continuously moving promenade. In fair weather, they could stand on the promenade and take in the bustle of the traffic below; in more inclement weather, they might seek shelter in the numerous drawing rooms (for women) and smoking rooms (for men) at convenient intervals along the promenade. 
 Mr. Speer's fanciful contraption might seem more suitable to a Jules Verne novel than Downtown Manhattan, but many of the city's best minds favored its construction. In the end, though, Gov. John Dix nixed Mr. Speer's plan. The governor explained that while he could accept the idea of the loop passing over Broadway once, he could not abide it passing over Broadway twice. 

Twists and Shouts
 As Rebecca Read Shanor points out in her 1988 survey of New York's unbuilt structures, ''The City That Never Was'' (Viking-Penguin), the difference between projects that get built and those that don't often comes down to whim and luck. Of course, whim and luck can cut both ways, killing worthwhile projects but also halting terrible ones. 
 Among the alarming revelations in Ms. Read Shanor's book and other architectural histories of New York is how narrowly the city has averted blunders. For every proposal that might have enhanced the city's charms, there is another that would have ravaged them. 
 In 1910, Mayor William Jay Gaynor, exasperated by traffic congestion, resolved to cut an entirely new thoroughfare through Midtown. Gaynor's street, running north-south between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, would have been 2.5 miles long and would have required the sacrifice of hundreds of buildings and the paving over of Bryant Park. 
 A man of great determination, Mayor Gaynor might well have accomplished his goal were it not for the bullet a would-be assassin shot into his throat in 1910. The mayor did not die for another three years, but he was depleted of his once prodigious energy and abandoned his ambitious plan. 
 The most infamous near-disaster of urban planning of 20th-century New York was Robert Moses' Lower Manhattan Expressway. The expressway, a six-lane elevated road, would have crossed Manhattan just north or south of Canal Street, plowing through thousands of apartments, hundreds of businesses and the now landmark buildings of the cast-iron district. 
 Mr. Moses first proposed the expressway in 1940 and quickly won the support of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and the New York City Planning Commission. Through three decades and five mayors, through cycles of opposition and support, Mr. Moses, who almost always got what he wanted, pushed his plan.
 What finally defeated him was public outrage. A coalition, led by the urban activist Jane Jacobs and supported by Assemblyman Louis DeSalvio, organized against the expressway in 1962. Testifying before the city's Board of Estimate, Mr. DeSalvio voiced what many New Yorkers had come to believe about Moses, that he was a ''stubborn old man'' and his expressway ''a mad visionary's dream.'' Even as opposition consolidated against it, the expressway staggered on menacingly for another nine years, like a bullet-riddled Hollywood villain who refuses to keel over. Finally, in 1971, Gov. Nelson Rockefeller declared the project truly dead.
 Looking back over New York's history, Ms. Read Shanor is struck by the impact of public opinion on the outcome of big plans. ''It's a confluence of things,'' Ms. Read Shanor said. ''But if New Yorkers don't like something, and they yell loud enough, boy, it doesn't happen.''

Flashes of Common Sense
 The Lower Manhattan Expressway would surely have doomed SoHo, through whose heart it would have sliced. Paradoxically, though, the 30-year threat of such a project probably did more to preserve SoHo than the good deeds of any preservationist. No developer wanted to invest money in a neighborhood that was slated for the wrecking ball, so little new construction, or demolition, occurred in SoHo for three decades. As a result, by the 1970's, SoHo was tattered but intact, still displaying the 19th-century charms that would soon transform it into a mecca for galleries, boutiques, restaurants and tourists. It's the sort of twist that makes the impact of never-realized projects so difficult to assess.
 Consider Mr. Lindenthal's bridge at West 57th Street. After decades of planning and years of near-misses, the span was rejected in 1929 by the War Department (which held jurisdiction over the Hudson). Had Mr. Lindenthal been permitted to build his bridge, would New York be better or worse off for it? 
 The thought of such an extraordinary bridge still ''stirs the imagination,'' as a New York Times editorial put it in 1931, but the specter of thousands more cars pouring into Midtown every morning is a grim one. ''It is not too much to say that a bridge of this capacity would transform the whole midtown area of Manhattan,'' The Times pointed out 73 years ago. ''Its present streets are not exactly empty.'' 
 Perhaps all that can be predicted with certainty is that the city, because it is run by human beings -- politicians, builders, architects, citizens -- will make mistakes, and with any luck, these mistakes will be balanced by flashes of common sense. 
 The tragic demolition of the old Pennsylvania Station in the early 1960's is offset, somewhat, by the salvation of Carnegie Hall, nearly leveled to make way for a high rise in 1956. The replacement of the lovely Singer Building by the unlovely U.S. Steel building in 1972 is unfortunate; on the plus side of the equation, though, owners of the Empire State Building did not carry out a plan conceived that year to remove their building's famous spire and add 11 unsightly stories to its height. 
 New Yorkers might be disappointed that the Metropolitan Museum of Art rejected a 1968 plan to set the Temple of Dendur on the southern tip of Roosevelt Island, just across the East River from Midtown. Then again, they might be grateful that Consolidated Edison did not build a nuclear power plant there, a possibility the utility had considered a few years earlier. 
 Ultimately, the measure of a great city is not only how flawlessly it advances the causes of good taste and intelligent urban planning, but also how well it accommodates its mistakes. When the twin towers of the World Trade Center topped out in 1972, they were, as Business Week put it, ''the colossus nobody seems to love.'' Architecture critics derided them as ugly and dull. Real estate executives warned that they would glut the market with office space, while television executives worried they would disrupt transmission signals to the suburbs. Somehow, the city managed to survive the presence of these two monoliths, and even came to love them. 
 And then, in a final twist, learned to survive all over again without them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: RIV VU INDEED -- An architect proposed ''bridge apartment houses'' for the city in 1925. One big benefit: the chance for a daily dip in the river. (Photos by Top, Avery Library, Columbia University
above, Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN EL OF SORTS -- The ''Endless Traveling or Railway Sidewalk'' was a raised, moving promenade for pedestrians above Broadway. Proposed in 1873, the plan envisioned rooms where pedestrians could watch the traffic below. (Photo by Avery Library, Columbia University)
SIX-SEATERS -- In 1951, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company urged the building of a conveyor between Times Square and Grand Central, left, that relied on small, translucent cars, below. (Photographs from Popular Science Magazine/Time4 Media)
SCREEN SCHEMES -- Visionaries plied their trade on film, too. Above, a view of a future city courtesy of Fritz Lang's ''Metropolis'' (1926). (Photo by Photofest)
 VENICE IN MIDTOWN -- Champions of a plan to separate cars from pedestrians said it would create ''a city of arcades, piazzas and bridges, with canals for streets.'' (Photo by Avery Library, Columbia University)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%) Bridges and Tunnels; Streets; Housing; Religion and Churches; Williamsburg Bridge (NYC); Railroads; Grand Central Terminal (NYC); Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: Jim Rasenberger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Hudson River; Times Square (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



5 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; THE GOODS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Frozen Stroganoff in Just 10 Hours

BYLINE: By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
THE Slow Food movement, based in Italy, is renowned among lovers of fine dining for its denunciations of Chicken McNuggets and other mass-produced cuisine. Its 65,000 members celebrate the simple pleasures of artisanal cheeses, handcrafted beers and meals that are lovingly, painstakingly prepared.
 So what would these epicures make of a product like Banquet Crock-Pot Classics, the latest frozen offering from ConAgra Foods of Omaha? On the one hand, the entrees are designed to simmer for 8 to 10 hours in a slow cooker, a beloved device of foodies who delight in the way it infuses hunks of meat and vegetables with flavor. 
 On the other hand, Banquet Crock-Pot Classics, which first shipped in June, require just five minutes of actual human involvement -- about the same effort it takes to heat up a TV dinner. 
 ConAgra, of course, is not aiming its new fare at the tiny sliver of consumers who would sooner eat dirt than a microwaved burrito. The six hearty items in the Banquet Crock-Pot Classics line -- like chicken and dumplings or stroganoff with beef and noodles -- are meant to appeal to working parents who are too tired to cook, but who still want to offer their family some semblance of home cooking rather than takeout.
 ''Mom just doesn't have enough homemade solutions'' to this dining quandary, said John Hanson, vice president of marketing for Con-Agra's Banquet brand. He described the Crock-Pot as ''a very good delivery system for homemade food,'' given its reputation for churning out gut-filling stews and casseroles.
 Slow cookers have experienced a renaissance over the last few years, a trend that ConAgra noted during its preproduction research. At the Rival Corporation, the owner of the Crock-Pot trademark, slow-cooker sales grew 20 percent from 2001 to 2003. (Crock-Pots account for about 80 percent of the slow cookers in America, according to Rival, a division of the Holmes Group of Milford, Mass.) 
 Two cookbooks -- ''Biggest Book of Slow Cooker Recipes'' and the ''Fix-It and Forget-It Cookbook: Feasting With Your Slow Cooker'' -- have sold well; the latter made the paperback best-seller list last year. And according to NFO WorldGroup, a market-research firm, 80 percent of American households own a slow cooker.
 Though slow cookers can be left unattended for long stretches, they usually require a modicum of prep work: garlic must be peeled, onions chopped, chicken de-skinned. But anyone who has mastered the art of opening a plastic bag can cook a $5.99 Banquet Crock-Pot Classic. 
 ConAgra's vision is that a chef dumps the package's contents, except for the starch component, into a slow cooker before heading to work. When the cook returns in the evening, only the contents of the potato or pasta bag must be added, about 30 minutes before serving.
 Perfecting the dinners took Con-Agra six months. ''Our big business has been food that is cooked in the microwave,'' Mr. Hanson said. ''It took us a while to understand specifically how you get the best crispiness of the vegetables, how you get the right texture of the meats, the right texture of the pasta.''
 CONAGRA test-marketed the line last winter in three cities known for buying frozen entrees in large quantity: Grand Junction, Colo.; Eau Claire, Wis.; and Cedar Rapids, Iowa. In each market, Banquet Crock-Pot Classics sold 2.5 times faster than any other family-size frozen meal.
 A nationwide ad campaign is planned for September, which will portray Banquet Crock-Pot Classics as a more homespun -- albeit equally convenient -- alternative to microwaveable competitors. A verdict from the Slow Food movement and slow-cooking devotees should follow shortly thereafter. It seems unlikely, though, that they will ever fully embrace a product line whose beef stew offering lists ''sauce cube'' as its third ingredient.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (85%); CHEESE (78%); FROZEN FOODS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); FOOD MFG (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); TRENDS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); BEER & ALE (72%); PARENTS (71%); BESTSELLERS (67%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (62%) Cooking and Cookbooks

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (97%); TNS NORTH AMERICA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Conagra Foods Inc

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (97%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (97%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (97%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (97%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Brendan I Koerner

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (72%) NEBRASKA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



6 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Ringwood, N.J.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: An Oasis Within Commuting Distance

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
THE borough of Ringwood stands out in densely populated northern New Jersey as an oasis of water, rocky outcrops and hardwood-forested ridges, laced with hiking and biking trails and winding, undulating roads. Situated in the foothills of the Ramapo Mountains, just south of the New York border, the borough has no streetlamps, sidewalks or traffic lights, and is 70 percent open space -- public parkland, lakes and reservoirs.
 ''We are the core of the highlands,'' said Mayor Wenke Taule, an avid hiker who was elected on an open-space platform.
 The highlands stretches across 500,000 acres of seven northern New Jersey counties and provides half of the state's drinking water. Under a bill that was passed by the New Jersey Legislature in June, development is to be constricted on 395,000 sensitive acres of the highlands and channeled toward the more highly developed 145,000 peripheral acres. ''Because we are environmentally sensitive, we will have virtually no new development,'' Ms. Taule said. 
 Ringwood, however, is also no stranger to environmental abuses. It is still dealing with the aftermath of the dumping of more than 700 tons of paint sludge, car parts and toxic chemicals by the Ford Motor Company on a 500-acre area off Margaret King Avenue, a couple of miles from the municipal building, in the 1960's.
 In 1994, after Ford spent more than $2 million on a cleanup, the area was removed from the federal Superfund site lists. Nevertheless, paint sludge keeps turning up in the yards of residents of the area, a pocket inhabited mainly by Ramapough Mountain Indians, who report a high incidence of skin ailments. 
 ''These people have been shafted by Ford, by the borough and by the federal Environmental Protection Agency,'' Mayor Taule said. ''We are trying to get the E.P.A. to bring Ford back to complete the cleanup.'' A statement issued by the company said that Ford would work with the E.P.A. to address residents' concerns, but, Ms. Taule added, ''the borough has yet to see a plan for it.''
 The mayor stresses that residents of the area are now served by the municipal water system and that whatever is in the ground is not leaching into the public water supply. ''Our wells are monitored on a regular basis and the reservoir is monitored, and they are clean,'' she said.
 Orly Steinberg, a broker at Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, said that the houses in the Superfund area almost never come on the market. ''They are owned by people who have lived there for hundreds of years and have shown no intention of leaving,'' she said. ''Sometimes, people buying elsewhere ask about the Superfund site, but it has no impact on our sales.''
 Most of Ringwood's residents live in two fingers of land that run parallel to Wanaque Reservoir, which provides water for nearly two million Newark and Jersey City residents. 
 The housing stock in Ringwood, which is in Passaic County, is mainly single family, with no apartment houses or condominiums. Styles range from simple winterized cabins to sprawling modern homes, with a mix of split-levels, ranches, Cape Cods and colonials in between. 
 In the middle of July, 68 homes in Ringwood were offered through the Multiple Listing Service. They started at $199,900 for a small 50-year-old two-bedroom ranch on C Street near the southwestern tip of the borough, and went up to $1,570,000 for a sprawling 7,000-square-foot contemporary on Conklintown Road on the southeastern side.
 Much of the housing is concentrated around four private lakes -- Cupsaw, Erskine, Skyline and Riconda -- that were created by the Ringwood Company in the 1920's and 1930's to promote the borough as a hunting and fishing retreat and a summer resort. Today, each of those lakes is the core of a private beach club for the surrounding homes. Ms. Steinberg says family memberships in the clubs cost an average of about $375 annually, with a $400 initiation fee. 
 Many of the original chestnut and cedar log cabins, built around the lakes from locally cut trees, are still in use. A three-bedroom, two-bath lakefront cabin on Cupsaw Drive recently sold for $499,000. ''On the other side of the road, not fronting on the lake, the same house would have been worth $100,000 less,'' she explained.
 Three years ago, Karen and Michael Murphy and their two daughters moved to a three-bedroom lakefront split-level on Cupsaw Drive from a smaller three-bedroom Cape in New Milford, Bergen County. ''We wanted a bigger and better house,'' Mrs. Murphy said. ''But we couldn't find anything we liked in Bergen County for under $450,000, which was beyond our budget.''
 Mrs. Murphy said they bought the three-bedroom, three-bath split-level, with a great room and floor-to-ceiling windows in all of the rooms that face Cupsaw Lake, for $340,000. ''We traded the congestion of Bergen County for a lakefront lifestyle,'' Mrs. Murphy said, ''with a canoe, a rowboat and a kayak, and hiking trails where my husband enjoys walking the dogs.'' 
 Surrounding the lakefront communities are several 1970's and 1980's developments of Cape Cods, ranches, split-levels, bilevels and colonials. The Capes start in the mid-$200,000's.
 One of the largest developments is Greenwood Acres, off Skyline Drive, the main thoroughfare in the southwestern section. Prices there range from about $360,000 for a three-bedroom bilevel to about $450,000 for a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half bath colonial on a one-acre lot.
 Many of the larger, more expensive homes are to the north and west of the Wanaque Reservoir, in the Stonetown area, where 3,000-square-foot, five-bedroom colonials built in the 1970's and 1980's on two-acre lots can sell for up to $700,000, according to Ms. Steinberg.
 Several new housing developments that were approved before the highlands legislation are now being built. Kenneth L. Hetrick, the municipal manager, said there are 50 permits for new housing outstanding. Because of the steep, rocky terrain and the requirement that all new homes must have septic systems, the lots are large, ranging from one to six acres, and houses on them sell for $600,000 to more than $1 million. 
 The 1,445-student Ringwood Public School system consists of two kindergarten-to-third-grade schools, a school for fourth and fifth graders and the Martin J. Ryerson Middle School for Grades 6 through 8.
 Graduates go on to Lakeland Regional High School, in neighboring Wanaque, whose students had a combined average score of 1,021 on the mathematical and verbal sections of the SAT reasoning test last year, compared with a state average of 1,018. The school offers 11 advanced placement courses in the sciences, economics, English, Spanish, music, history and government.
 Twenty miles of the borough's hiking trails are in Ringwood State Park, a 4,034-acre tract that includes the New Jersey Botanical Gardens, Shepherd Lake (used for swimming, boating and fishing) and two historic mansions, which are on the National and New Jersey Registers of Historic Places. 
 Beginning in 1807, Ringwood Manor, the older of the two homes, served as the headquarters of an iron mining and smelting empire that was started in 1742 with the construction of a blast furnace in the area by the Ogden family. In 1765, a Prussian ironmaster named Peter Hasenclever, who headed a British conglomerate named the American Iron Company, made Ringwood the center of a 150,000-acre empire in New Jersey, New York and Nova Scotia, claiming to produce the ''best iron in the American colonies.'' 
 During the American Revolution, the mines and forges were managed by Robert Erskine, who served as George Washington's cartographer and produced military camp stoves and the iron for the chain stretched across the Hudson River to prevent a British naval invasion. Washington was a frequent visitor to the area and brought his wife, Martha, along on one occasion. 
 Another attraction in Ringwood is the 160-acre Weis Ecology Center, on Snake Den Road. It is owned by the New Jersey Audubon Society as part of its statewide wildlife sanctuary system. It includes an educational center, nature trails, an aviary and a garden specially planted to attract songbirds and butterflies.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WATERFRONT PROPERTY -- Log cabins dot Cupsaw Lake in Ringwood. Houses on the lake are worth 25 percent more than ones on the other side of the road, according to a local real estate broker. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
On the Market: SKYLINE LAKES DRIVE -- House at 162 Skyline Lakes Drive has three bedrooms and one bath. $289,000. Information: (973) 696-1111.
KENT ROAD -- This house, a center-hall colonial at 10 Kent Road, has four bedrooms and two baths. $429,888. Information: (973) 962-7007.
 CONKLINTOWN ROAD -- This house, at 166 Conklintown Road, has five bedrooms and five baths. $1,570,000. Information: (973) 962-1300.Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 14,000MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $81,636AREA: 27 square milesMEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $330,000MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $325,000MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $215,000TAX ON MEDIAN HOME: $8,120GOVERNMENT: Seven-member borough council that includes the mayor as first among equals. Council members serve staggered three-year terms. Mayor is chosen by council members to serve a one-year term.SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $10,670DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN: 37 milesCOMMUTE TO MIDTOWN: 70 minutes to Port Authority via New Jersey Transit bus, $7.20 one-way, $48 10-trip, $171 monthly.Map of New Jersey highlighting Ringwood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); HIKING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); SUPERFUND (89%); MAYORS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (87%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (86%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); LAKES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); WATER QUALITY (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); AQUANTIVE INC (54%); COLDWELL BANKER RESIDENTIAL BROKERAGE CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (51%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

PERSON: Jerry Cheslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Ringwood (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



7 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK OBSERVED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Maxwell and Me

BYLINE: By FRANCES KIERNAN. 
Frances Kiernan is the author of ''Seeing Mary Plain: A Life of Mary McCarthy.''

 BODY:
IN December 1966, long before secretaries were called assistants, I began working for William Maxwell, a New Yorker editor much admired for his own novels and stories as well as his talent for bringing out the best in his writers. Now, four years after his death, he is revered not only for his literary gifts but also for his generous spirit and great aptitude for friendship, two qualities not easy to come by in the world of New York letters. ''A William Maxwell Portrait (Memories and Appreciations),'' a collection of essays by fellow writers that will be published this month by W.W. Norton, makes much of this point. 
 What I saw the first day I was ushered into Mr. Maxwell's office was a middle-aged man whose face was utterly unremarkable save for brown eyes that seemed to take in everything. I saw him as old, although in fact he was in his 50's. I had no idea who he was. All I knew was that he, along with Roger Angell, was the editor I'd be working for.
 That December, the Vietnam War was heating up, and the women's movement had yet to catch fire. I was 21, with a degree in English literature from Barnard, and had been earning $90 a week as The New Yorker's 20th-floor receptionist. 
 My pay was not unusual for a young woman with a liberal arts degree who could type reasonably well. I had been warned that receptionists and secretaries did not go on to more glamorous jobs at The New Yorker, but I was engaged to marry a young doctor, and after a few years I planned to retire anyway. I think, in fact, that I was promoted from receptionist to secretary as a sort of engagement present. 
 William Maxwell's office was at the north end of the 20th floor in the magazine's old building on West 43rd Street, just off Fifth Avenue. It was large enough to easily accommodate an old-fashioned desk, a long library table, several chairs and a couch covered in beige ticking. 
 The secretary I was replacing was retiring to the suburbs with her new husband, the way I was planning to retire one day. Her cramped office served as an anteroom to Mr. Maxwell's. In one corner were a couple of wire baskets overflowing with manuscripts. Above the desk was a shelf with a dictionary, a thesaurus, some packets of restaurant sugar, an electric kettle, a stack of blue and white cups and saucers, a tin of shortbread biscuits and a box of Twinings English Breakfast tea. 
 Official hours were 10 to 6. Often Mr. Maxwell was at his desk by the time I arrived, and always his desk was piled high with manuscripts, galleys and letters waiting to be answered. At noon he headed off for a quick lunch at the Century Club, two doors down the street. By 12:30 he was back again. From 12:30 to 2, he napped on his couch, during which time I was free to do whatever I wanted. Mostly, I went shopping. 
 Ordinarily the door to Mr. Maxwell's office was open by 2. If it remained shut, it was my duty to knock. My next task was to make tea, which was served to him and any visitors he might have, with the tea bag still in its cup and two shortbread biscuits. It never occurred to me to resent this part of my job. If pressed, I would have said that I could happily work for William Maxwell forever. 
 That June, my two bosses joined forces and bought me a wedding gift from Tiffany's. By fall, however, my new husband had been drafted and sent to a base in California. There was no way I could stay behind. After enduring 23 months of Tupperware parties and friends' baby showers, I returned to find that by some miracle my old job was once again vacant. The secretary who had replaced me had gone back to school. I, too, would be going to school, but only two nights a week, with the hope of earning a graduate degree in English. 
 For two years Mr. Maxwell and I jogged along nicely. By example, he taught me what it meant to write a good sentence and to edit with a light pencil. He also taught me that a gentle manner does not necessarily imply weakness. The only part of my job I found burdensome was keeping track of half the unsolicited fiction, carefully noting each story's arrival and departure in a black loose-leaf notebook. Submissions were sorted by the author's last name; I had A to K. After the reader who took care of my half of the alphabet was let go for reasons of economy, I sometimes had up to four overflowing wire baskets in my office. 
 By 1972 my attitude toward being a secretary was changing. Although I had mixed feelings about the women's movement, I was hardly indifferent to its demands for equal work for equal pay. My best friend had become a radiologist. All the young women who had arrived at the magazine with me had long since left for better jobs elsewhere. 
 FINALLY, one Monday morning, I arrived at work to learn that a fiction secretary down the hall, a woman younger than I, was being promoted to a job in the checking department. I had no desire to follow in her footsteps. But that afternoon, as the clock approached six, I got up my courage and ventured into Mr. Maxwell's to ask if perhaps I could help with the unsolicited reading, at least until the reader who was doing double duty got caught up. He paused for a moment, then replied, ''I don't see why not.'' 
 Over the next few weeks I found one publishable story and then another. Any story that was actually taken, I was allowed to edit, with Mr. Maxwell's assistance. Soon I was passing along promising writers to Mr. Angell as well. 
 As far as I was concerned, this state of affairs could have continued indefinitely. The day came, though, when the magazine's vice president insisted that my two bosses go to William Shawn, The New Yorker's editor, and make my de facto position official. My guess is he thought that would put a stop to what was going on before other secretaries got ideas. 
 An appointment with Mr. Shawn was set up; a meeting took place; and when Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Angell returned half an hour later, both men were shaking their heads. Anticipating their arguments, Mr. Shawn had announced that he saw no need to hire a second reader. Instead, he proposed making me an editor. While I was being trained for this new position, I would continue to read half the unsolicited fiction. 
 But there was one last question Mr. Shawn had insisted they ask. Both men looked embarrassed; clearly they knew better. Did I plan on having a baby soon? Not so far as I knew, I said. 
 Where I had least expected it, I had found a job with a future. The trouble was, Mr. Shawn was insisting I move down the hall to an office of my own. He had a point. No editor could possibly work as another editor's secretary. Of course I would still be seeing Mr. Maxwell. I could even buy my own tin of shortbread biscuits. But I was going to have to give up the electric kettle and the ticking-covered couch. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The author, pictured above in 1967 on Riverside Drive, said that William Maxwell, left, taught her what it meant to write a good sentence and to edit with a light pencil. He also told her that a gentle manner does not necessarily imply weakness. (Photo by Anthony Loew/''Over by the River and Other Stories'' [Knopf, 1977])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); WOMEN (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); RESTAURANTS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (52%) Magazines; Secretaries, Stenographers and Typists; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: New Yorker (Magazine)

PERSON: William Maxwell; Frances Kiernan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



8 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 3; Education Life Supplement; College and Money; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Now, the Poor Don't Need to Mortgage Their Future

BYLINE: By Scott Jaschik. 
Scott Jaschik is editor of Higher Ed Today, a Web publication to appear later this year.

 BODY:
IN the competitive early 90's, many colleges increased their aid to talented students regardless of whether they actually needed financial help. Now, facing widening economic disparity, colleges are refocusing on low-income students. In the last year, five major universities have announced broad new aid programs.
 While the plans are not identical, most eliminate the need for the poorest students to borrow to afford college. 
 No student likes to borrow. But loans are believed to be a bigger barrier for the poor. Middle-class students -- whose parents borrowed for college themselves or have home mortgages -- are far more comfortable with debt. 
 Princeton led the way, starting in the 2001-2 academic year -- and not just for those at the bottom of the income bracket. Princeton has dropped loans for all students in favor of grants. ''The loan obstacle was the biggest reason students weren't including a college like Princeton in their schools to apply to, or why, if they were admitted, they were picking another college,'' says Don M. Betterton, director of financial aid at the university. Results were notable: 52 percent of undergraduates now qualify for aid, up from 38 percent six years ago.
 The universities that acted in the last year -- Harvard, the University of Maryland at College Park, the University of Nebraska, the University of Virginia and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill -- are hoping for similar results.
 Chapel Hill has steadily increased spending on student aid for a decade, but that hasn't closed the gap in college-going rates, says Shirley Ort, associate provost and director of scholarships and student aid. Only 8 percent of those admitted last year were ''highest-need students'' -- that is, from a family of four earning about $28,000 (150 percent of the federal poverty level of $18,850). But 13 percent of the state is at the poverty level, meaning a much larger percentage meets the university's criteria but fails to take advantage of the program. 
 To eliminate the complicated combination of loans and grants -- ''so many formulas, so many acronyms,'' Ms. Ort says -- Chapel Hill's plan and the others set a simple, straightforward income cutoff for eligibility.
 Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation and author of ''The Remedy: Class, Race and Affirmative Action,'' sees these new programs as ''a wave'' that will spread to other universities. ''What the elites do filters through the rest of the academy,'' Mr. Kahlenberg says. He agrees with their thrust -- a focus on helping low-income students rather than on developing racial and ethnic diversity. Minorities will benefit most from these aid efforts, he says, adding that groups opposed to affirmative action won't be able to mount successful legal challenges to them. 
 Some experts on student aid are less optimistic. Thomas G. Mortenson, a senior scholar at the Pell Institute for the Study of Opportunity in Higher Education, says admissions policies that emphasize standardized tests will continue to severely limit the number of low-income students admitted to top universities. Low-income students do not do as well, on average, as wealthier students. 
 Chapel Hill, however, is already seeing an impact. Preliminary numbers indicate that this fall's freshmen class will have 20 percent more low-income students than the previous year.
 James Moeser, chancellor at Chapel Hill, reports that the university has heard from other institutions that want to replicate the program. ''Many universities had been moving aid away from need and toward merit,'' Mr. Moeser says. ''We wanted to redirect that trend. And we see this as a movement.

Aid Programs That Shun Loans
 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Students from families with income up to 150 percent of the federal poverty level (that's about $28,000 for a family of four) will receive grants covering tuition and expenses. They must agree to a work-study job of about 10 hours a week (officials believe such requirements increase graduation rates, although other universities have eliminated the programs to ensure more time to study). About 300 students are expected to benefit in the fall.

University of Virginia -- Families with income up to 150 percent of the federal poverty level will not have to pay for anything. About 80 students are expected to benefit this fall.

University of Nebraska -- The university pays tuition costs not covered by Pell Grants or other scholarships (income levels vary, but almost all qualifying students have family income under $40,000). In this plan, students still may have to borrow for living expenses, and it is the only one that requires maintenance of a minimum grade point average, in this case 2.5. About 450 freshmen are expected to benefit in the fall.

University of Maryland at College Park -- Students with limited resources (income of $21,000 for a family of four) no longer have to take out loans. Costs will be covered by grants as long as the student holds a work-study job. Another new program provides aid to students who lose their Pell Grants because a job pushes them over the income-eligibility level. About 500 freshmen are expected to benefit in the fall.

Harvard -- This plan doesn't eliminate loans per se but drops the family contribution that is standard at most institutions. Up to now, Harvard has asked parents who earn under $40,000 to contribute $2,300 on average toward their child's cost of attendance, with the remainder paid through loans, jobs and grants. Come fall, the university will absorb that cost. Parents with incomes of $40,000 to $60,000 will contribute about $2,250, or $1,250 less than they would have previously. About 220 freshmen are expected to benefit this fall.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jeff Koegel) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (77%); ETHNICITY (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Student Loans

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

PERSON: Scott Jaschik

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



9 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; College Prep; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Trouble in the Ranks

BYLINE: By Abigail Sullivan Moore. 
Abigail Sullivan Moore is a contributor to the Connecticut section of The Times.

DATELINE: West Hartford, Conn. 

 BODY:
JOSHUA WAITZMAN, a sophomore at Brown University, recalls the nasty competition as students scratched their way up in class rank at William H. Hall High School here. Two friends come to mind. They were both near the top of the class in grade point average. ''One got a C on her test,'' he says. ''The other, after consoling her, turned around behind her back and was laughing at her because his class rank would go up.'' Things eased up after college acceptances rolled in.
 Whether a student ranks in the top 10 percent or the top 20 at a demanding school like Hall can rest on just a hundredth of a point in grade point average. Many classmates with solid B's fall into the bottom half, a difficult position with today's intense competition for selective colleges. Mr. Waitzman was no slouch himself. He graduated in fourth place and might have done better had he not followed his heart with two years of band instead of the weightier A of another advanced placement course (he took 10 all told). 
 ''We had to play the game of being competitive,'' he says. ''There was no way out of it. To be separated by just a tiny little decimal point because of a test in your sophomore year really seems ridiculous.'' 
 Mr. Waitzman was an opponent of class rank in a focus group about the issue for West Hartford public schools. Concerned that ranking was pitting student against student and hurting the chances of lower-ranked students at selective colleges, the district ended class ranking at its two high schools this past school year.
 Students were in a frenzy trying to haggle over grades and manipulate course selection for the highest rank, explains Nancy DePalma, Hall's interim principal. In some schools, grades for advanced placement and honors classes are worth a point or more toward G.P.A. than are grades for standard classes, a practice designed to reward and motivate students to take challenging material. ''But the most important reason for me to drop rank is not so much the students at the top,'' Dr. DePalma says, ''but those students who have a very strong G.P.A. of 3.0 and 3.1 and who were being pushed into the bottom half of the class.'' 
 Most public schools rank students, but college admissions officers and guidance counselors report a growing movement against traditional class rank. School board officials in Hershey, Pa., voted last year to drop rank, beginning with the class of 2005. Eighteen high schools in Fairfax County, Va., and at least 28 in New Jersey have recently eliminated rank. At Millburn High School in New Jersey, students successfully pressed to drop rankings in the late 1990's. ''They saw a cutthroat competition for grades that had less to do with learning and more to do with finding a position in the class,'' says Nancy Siegel, Millburn's head counselor. 
 According to the National Association for College Admission Counseling in Alexandria, Va., schools that opt not to rank tend to have a large population of students bound for four-year colleges. Private schools and those with fewer than 500 students are also less likely to rank.
 ''These schools are so tuned into the college admissions process, they can see class rank isn't going to get their students anything,'' says David Hawkins, director of public policy for the admission counseling association. In fact, they fear the opposite: that it undercuts students who are from the best schools, and gives an advantage in college admissions to students with higher rankings from less-demanding schools. The state university systems in California, Texas and Florida use class rank to try to diversify classrooms in the wake of challenges to affirmative-action plans that are based on race. In California, the public university systems must admit the top 4 percent from every high school in the state; in Texas, it's the top 10 percent; and in Florida, the top 20 percent. 
 Tiny variances in G.P.A. can have profound effects on class rank. In Mr. Waitzman's class, 44 students had G.P.A.'s of 4.0 or higher, but 10 didn't make the top 10 percent. 
 By choosing not to rank, competitive schools are essentially saying their 35th-ranked student did better than most at other high schools, says Patricia McDonough, an education professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and author of ''Choosing Colleges: How Social Class and Schools Structure Opportunity.
 CLEARLY, class rank matters. While it has slipped, it is still the No. 4 factor influencing where a student gets in, according to the National Association for College Admission Counseling. (The others in order of importance: grades in college-prep courses, admissions test scores and overall grades.) Admissions officials insist there is no class-rank cutoff. But at the University of Virginia, where 85 percent of enrolling students who report rank are in their high schools' top 10 percent, a student in the 12th percentile sets off ''a signal to admissions officers,'' says John A. Blackburn, dean of undergraduate admissions. ''It says that in a school with 400 seniors, 11 percent have better grades. That student is not off to a good start with us, and we're going to look very carefully at the rest of the application.'' Mr. Blackburn believes most competitive colleges share Virginia's reaction.
 In addition, he notes, ''colleges want to have high rankings because it generates more top applicants.'' The proportion of a college's freshmen class in the top 10 percent is part of the formula that U.S. News & World Report uses to compute its rankings of universities. 
 To give colleges a sense of a student's achievement in respect to classmates, some schools that have eliminated rank send visual aids along with transcripts. West Hartford's chart shows sixth-semester G.P.A.'s of every student in an applicant's class. Others send grade-distribution charts, showing the number of A's, B's and so on given in every course the student took junior year. Some schools have replaced numerical class rank with broader percentile categories, dividing classes into tenths, quarters or fifths. 
 New Trier High School on Chicago's affluent North Shore divides its class by deciles (grouping students in the 10th percent, 20th percent, etc.). Students receive two rankings: One comes from a weighted G.P.A., giving more points for advanced courses; the other from a nonweighted G.P.A. -- an advantage for students who earn a lot of A's and B's in standard classes. Students choose which to send to colleges.
 The bottom line, of course, is how all this is viewed by college admissions officials, and interviews with almost a dozen suggest an appreciation for class rank. ''It's really imperative to have some sense of a student's relative class placement,'' says Richard H. Shaw, Yale's dean of undergraduate admissions and financial aid. ''Even if they do it by deciles, that's a helpful piece of information.'' 
 At Haverford College in Pennsylvania, where about 25 percent of applications arrive with no ranking or supporting data, admissions officials use a formula they decline to disclose to estimate an applicant's decile ranking -- ''a much less accurate process than we would like,'' says Rob Killion, director of admissions. In fact, officials express frustration when high schools send insufficient information to put a student's achievement in perspective, and worry about having to put more weight on standardized test scores. 
 At Kenyon College in Ohio, where 60 percent of freshmen now arrive without rank, admissions officers have become skilled at interpreting available data. ''I'll look at rigor, grades, scores,'' says Beverly Morse, director of admissions. ''We really, really look at the rigor.'' Additionally, Ms. Morse reviews how other students from the applicant's high school fared at Kenyon, phones guidance counselors for more insight and sifts through teacher recommendations for clues to a student's love of learning. 
 Some admissions officers are skeptical that ending traditional class rank improves acceptance rates; others acknowledge that a certain type of student benefits. Ms. Morse sees advantages for capable students who are pushed down in rank by a cluster of high-powered students. Mr. Blackburn, Virginia's admissions dean, describes a student who takes the most challenging classes but does not earn straight A's, and falls below the top 10 percent. 
 Without the neat indicator of rank, admissions officers may have to look closer at applicants -- their transcripts, talents, activities, passion for education and mitigating factors like a death in the family.
 Indeed, Dr. DePalma sees indications that more students at Hall High are getting into their first-choice school (and that there is less overt student competition). But she and other secondary school officials say they are unsure to what extent eliminating class rank has helped achieve more favorable admissions. Different factors affect each year's acceptance rate -- the economy, competition for acceptance, students' varying academic abilities and students' more realistic aspirations.
 At Millburn, the acceptance rate at top colleges jumped from 25 percent in 1997 to 43 percent in 1998, when the school dropped ranking. But that class was exceptionally talented, Ms. Siegel says. For this fall the rate is 31 percent. In 1996, students who were ranked under a traditional system at Ridgefield High School in Connecticut had an acceptance rate of 24 percent at the most competitive colleges; the next year, without ranking, 38 percent were accepted.
 But as word spread of their success, the number of Ridgefield students applying to elite colleges more than tripled by 2003, helping to cut that rate to 24 percent, says Linda Jaslow, the school's guidance director.
 Nonetheless, she believes that ending rank has helped keep Ridgefield's acceptance rates respectable in a time of intensifying competition. 
 ''There's no question in my mind that providing class rank would have a negative effect on our college admissions,'' she says. ''If we went back to ranking, it would be a disservice to our students.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings: * Grade point averages of applicants, for fall 2004, to the University of Pennsylvania. Not all got in. (Drawings by Scott Menchin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CLASS RANKING (90%); GRADES & GRADING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); RANKINGS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SCHOOL BOARDS (60%) Education and Schools; Ratings and Rating Systems; Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Tests and Testing; Grading of Students; Sat (College Admission Test); Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%) National Assn for College Admission Counseling

PERSON: Abigail Sullivan Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



10 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ENVIRONMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Born-Again Beaches For the Urban Folk

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: Perth Amboy 

 BODY:
ON a recent hazy afternoon in this old industrial city, a struggling sun had beckoned a few beachgoers, who were out collecting shells or strolling along the brownish-colored sand edging the shoreline. Others fished off the piers. In the distance, the century-old Great Beds Lighthouse stood out against the sky.
 Not everyone goes ''down the shore'' in the summer. Instead, some choose to explore urban beaches like this one, along New Jersey's rivers and bays. 
 Waterfronts of cities like Perth Amboy have mainly been linked with industry, not people, and usually consist of bulkheads, not sandy beaches. But a few of these unlikely spots, with a little help, have been reborn. And more are being resurrected, in Hoboken and Harrison, for example, as part of redevelopment projects that focus on restoring public access to the waterways. 
 Perth Amboy's 2,000-foot-long beach overlooks Raritan Bay, where the Raritan River meets the Arthur Kill. After lying fallow for decades, the beach was resurrected two years ago. A similar resurrection took place in neighboring South Amboy.
 But swimmers do not yet ply the blue-gray water at these beaches. The water quality has improved, after years of industrial pollution, but it is still not good enough.
 One recent visitor to Perth Amboy's beach was Anna Fygena, who walked along the shore in her bathing suit while her husband, Michael, fished. The couple, both in their 60's, drive from New Brunswick to the beach several times a week. ''I come to swim and walk,'' Ms. Fygena said while digging her toes into the wet sand. In a mix of English and Russian, she added that they like the solitude of the beach, which they discovered through friends.
 A project in Hoboken centers on a sandy spit that for decades has been hidden from the public -- except for a few intrepid city kids -- behind the old Maxwell House coffee plant on the Hudson River shoreline. In the next few years the beach will be accessible again as part of that site's transformation to housing, stores and offices. 
 Other recreational opportunities are also sprouting along the state's urbanized waterways. Frank Sinatra Park in Hoboken offers kayaking, for example, and Liberty State Park in Jersey City has kayaking as well as fishing and crabbing. 
 Parks edging the Passaic River are part of the future in Newark and Harrison as those cities' waterfronts are revived with housing, commerce and recreation. Ground is to be broken in October on a 25-acre park that is one of several planned in Harrison; it will feature a picnic area, bike paths and an amphitheater, said Joseph R. Romano, executive vice president at Advance Realty Group of Bedminster, which is developing the park and is among a group of companies that will transform the waterfront.
 In the 19th century and through the first half of the 20th, people from New Jersey as well as New York City went to the urban waterfront to swim. That was before industry, sewage and ship traffic soiled the waterways, erosion ate away the beaches and the Parkway and Turnpike made it easy to drive to oceanfront getaways farther south. 
 In the 1930's and 40's, people came to Perth Amboy for a group of mere sandy spots known as Bayard Beach and Knudsen, or Nickel, Beach. They sought ''to escape the heat of New York City,'' said Barbara Booz, a resident and Perth Amboy history buff. They came, and still do, for boating and sailing, added Mrs. Booz, who with her husband runs an antique store on the waterfront.
 In the 1950's the city built the current beach, said Michael Keller, a Perth Amboy native who is now the city's director of economic and community development. Mr. Keller said that when he was in high school in the 1960's it was the place to meet girls but by the late 60's the water quality had worsened, swimming was no longer allowed and the beach had been closed. It remained dormant until the 1990's, when the city began a $1 billion redevelopment plan to bring back its waterfront. 
 With the improvements the beach ''is great and as nice as any down the shore,'' said Avilez Osvaldo, a resident, widely known was Ozzie, who was walking there recently with his 4-year-old son, Jacob. ''It is soothing and like nowhere else around.''
 In South Amboy, local residents frequented a beach along the Raritan Bay through the first half of the last century. Travelers also passed through South Amboy to get to resorts farther south, said Mayor John T. O'Leary, another city native. 
 But in the 1950's, the half-mile-long beach became inaccessible after silt was dredged from the bay and dumped there. Then only the most daring would visit the beach, which, like the rest of the waterfront, ''became a forgotten area,'' said Mayor O'Leary, who recalled riding horses along the beach as a young man.
 Things began to change in 1998 when a 136-acre waterfront park opened as part of an ambitious redevelopment plan that includes new housing and commerce along the shoreline. While the park sprawls across the waterfront of neighboring Sayreville, its entrance is in South Amboy. This summer the city opened the first 1,400-foot phase of its beachfront walkway that connects with the park as well as with a seven-acre surf-fishing beach. Mr. O'Leary said future plans call for the walkway to be extended 2,500 more feet, linking it to a proposed marina and modern boat club.
 In Hoboken, before docks dominated the waterfront it was ''the Jersey Shore for Manhattanites,'' said Daniel Gans, of PT Maxwell, the company redeveloping the former Maxwell House site. The city's northern shoreline also included the fabled Elysian Fields, where the first organized baseball game was played in 1846 and where restaurants and gardens wooed crowds until the 1850's, when industry started to rise at the water's edge. 
 A remnant of that time -- a sandy stretch behind the old coffee plant that is one-third of a city block long and, depending on the tide, 12 to 40 feet wide -- is to be refurbished as part of five acres of open space that will also include riverfront walkways, landscaped picnic areas and wide grassy fields. 
 The developer will also construct a replica of the original New York Yacht Club's clubhouse. John Cox Stevens, a son of Col. John Stevens, Hoboken's founding father, organized the club in 1844 and a year later donated a clubhouse, situated smartly in the shadow of Elysian Fields.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The view from the beach in Perth Amboy is of fuel tanks and a power station across the bay in South Amboy. But still, it's a beach. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (92%); CITIES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (88%); URBANIZATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); STATE PARKS (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); WATER QUALITY (67%) Beaches; Urban Areas ; Rivers

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Perth Amboy (NJ); South Amboy (Nj); Hoboken (NJ); Harrison (Nj)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



11 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: Engines of Economic Progress

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: PLUMSTED TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
JIMMY HORTON was making up for lost time, like Alice's rabbit on its way to Wonderland. His open-wheel, modified stock car stuttered through the turns at New Egypt Speedway, bellowing, then sped up to as fast as 120 miles an hour on the half-mile track's straight-aways. 
 Mr. Horton, one of the top dirt-track drivers in New Jersey, had a miserable qualifying effort for this special Wednesday night race last month. He blew a tire in his heat, then won a consolation race to line up 24th for the 50-lap main event. Not a great place to start, but there was $10,000 to be won, the biggest purse of the season, and charging down into the curves to pass fainter-hearted drivers is a Horton specialty.
 In the stands, watching Mr. Horton and sometimes wincing at the shriek of some three-dozen modifieds, were several thousand spectators, most of them in T-shirts. For $25 a ticket, they also got to see two lesser stars of the big-time Nascar circuit, Greg Biffle and Joe Nemechek, who had come to New Egypt to spread the gospel according to Nascar. 
 It is hard to quantify, but there is a perception that stock car racing, at least at its highest levels, is retro chic. As Bill Clinton and Bob Dole wooed soccer moms in 1996, the ''Nascar dad,'' the stock car-loving middle American, is said to be the swing-vote icon for John Kerry and George W. Bush. There are hundreds of tracks nationwide, and stock car and other kinds of racing continue to grow on television. And Nascar, stock car racing's most visible sanctioning body, represents the country's top spectator sport in average attendance and is the No.2 sport on television.
 But racing in New Jersey is at an odd juncture. There is a proposal in Millville -- that has both local and national business and political backing -- to develop a motor-sports resort, complete with hotel, conference center and oval track. On the other hand, two tracks have closed in the state in the last three years, and New Jersey racetrack managers say they operate on a shoestring, the tracks financed by their owners for love, not money.
 And Nascar's Nextel Cup series aside, local and regional stock car heroes still travel to dirt and asphalt tracks in out-of-the-way places on steamy summer nights. New Egypt Speedway, at the Ocean County-Burlington County line, is closer to the more remote areas of Fort Dix than to any semblance of a town.
 From April through October, though, it is the state's center of dirt-track racing, a place where the next generation of Biffles and Nemecheks and Earnhardts learn their sport and hope someday to zoom and zip before 140,000 fans at Talladega Superspeedway in Alabama, or 170,000 at Daytona.
 But, as Buffy Swanson cautions, ''Nobody is making a living solely from New Egypt Speedway.'' Ms. Swanson is officially New Egypt's public relations director, but handles all sorts of other duties, too. She is a also graphic designer for Republican political campaigns. ''We do this because we love to be around the sport,'' she said. ''I have loved it since growing up in Staten Island.''
 Ms. Swanson said New Egypt, which had run as a ramshackle dirt track since the 1950's, was 15 days from a sheriff's sale in 1997 when the Grosso family, which operates several construction businesses in Belle Mead, took it over. One of the younger Grossos, Rick Jr., races, and the family had an affection for the sport. 
 ''They rebuilt the place from the ground up,'' Ms. Swanson said. ''State-of-the-art sound systems, new electronics, new aluminum seating, a playground, heated restrooms. It was like going up to triple-A baseball, you might say. But it isn't making them rich. It's part time for them, too.''

Reality, and a Visionary
 Even during the Grossos' short tenure, the state's racing fraternity has dwindled. Flemington Speedway went out of business after the 2000 season and East Windsor Speedway called it quits in 2002. In each case, encroaching development and continuing community concerns over pollution, noise and traffic caused the owners to close. The state has three operating drag strips -- Atco Dragway in Atco, Camden County; Island Dragway in Great Meadows, Warren County; and Raceway Park in Old Bridge Township, Middlesex County -- and three ovals: New Egypt, Wall Speedway in Wall Township, Monmouth County; and Bridgeport Speedway, in Bridgeport, Gloucester County. All are surviving, but track managers are skeptical of the alleged boom in fan interest.
 ''Our biggest challenge is to get the Nascar couch potato fan,'' said Joe Lewandowski, who came from Waterford Speed Bowl in Connecticut to take over as operations manager at Wall Speedway earlier this summer. ''There are people out there who think that only Dale Earnhardt Jr. or Michael Waltrip are auto racing. There is a serious disconnect between those new Nascar fans, who seem to be TV fans, and those who are fans of regular, short-track auto racing.''
 Harvey Siegel is betting in the opposite direction. He is calling himself the chief visionary of the potential motor-sports resort in Millville, a down-but-not-yet-out former farming and manufacturing center in Cumberland County, in the belly of New Jersey's relatively poor southwest, a smidgen below the Mason-Dixon line. Mr. Siegel lives in New York, a developer of shopping centers in the Northeast, a sophisticate who loves good meals and good wine. But in his heart, he says, he is a motor head, a guy in love with cars and racing.
 ''I have been watching and racing cars for 25 years, and it has for too long been a hobby that has had no amenities,'' he said. ''The places where people race cars have to be more family friendly.''
 His proposal for Millville is similar to what he has done at Virginia International Speedway. He bought the track in Danville, Va., near the North Carolina border, in 1998, after it had been dormant for 24 years. In its day, from 1957 to 1974, it was one of the main sites on the Southern stock car circuit, but it was one of the many tracks that fell victim to the oil crisis of the early 1970's. Mr. Siegel has rehabbed the 3.27-mile track and is turning the 1,200-acre property into what he says is the first motor-sport resort.
 Virginia International offers all kinds of racing, from sports cars to motorcycles to all-terrain vehicles. It also conducts safety training, motor-sport schools, and has opportunities for visitors to ride at breakneck speeds around the track. There is a vintage car museum, and Mr. Siegel has plans for a lodge and an upscale restaurant in a restored 160-year-old tavern on the property.
 ''I want this to be the poster boy for a motor-sports life-style facility, and I want Millville to be the second one,'' said Mr. Siegel from his New York office. Millville is offering about 700 acres of city-owned land near its municipal airport for Mr. Siegel's proposed development, renaming the property New Jersey Motorsports Park, with the track itself proposed to be called Thunderbolt Speedway.
 The plans are grand, far beyond what New Egypt or Bridgeport offer. Mr. Siegel proposes a 4.1-mile road course; three hotels; a school for drivers, mechanics and anything else connected with motor sports; maybe even a golf course or equestrian area. The city has proposed to sell the land to Mr. Siegel and his financial backers for $3.9 million, contribute $600,000 for water and sewer connections and apply for $10 million in government grants. Mr. Siegel said the entire project would cost $100 million and take at least two years to build.
 Hugh McElroy, who runs Dallas Airmotive, an airplane supply business at the Millville Airport, is enthusiastic. He signed on to be the head of the Green Flag Committee, a group of local politicians and businesspeople who support Mr. Siegel's plan.
 ''It's true, we've had other proposals before that haven't come through, but we think we are a reviving area and want to link our future to tourism,'' Mr. McElroy said. ''We know it's not like some project, say, in Dallas, where you would get 250,000 spectators. But we have an air show every year that draws tens of thousands. We could have 20,000 at some events, but more than that, have year-round activity of some sort.''
 To others, it sounds too pie in the sky. ''I can't speak against anyone's idea, but, like I said, I don't know anyone around here making a big living on motor sports,'' said Ms. Swanson of New Egypt Speedway.

Tourist Center, With Horsepower
 But Dr. Richard Harris, director of the Senator Walter Rand Institute for Public Policy at Rutgers University in Camden, sees at least a glimmer of a possibility. ''All you have to do is go to Delaware and see Dover Downs, and know there is a market for motor sports in this area,'' Dr. Harris said. ''It is a gigantic Nascar facility that can accommodate 100,000 people in an area not unlike Southern New Jersey. There are beach areas nearby, like Rehoboth and Dewey Beach, and they have spill-over attractions. Similarly, if Millville plays it right, it can make this all into a tourist center.'' 
 He noted that Millville has brought artists to its once crumbling downtown. The Wheaton Glass complex, a restored village, is on the outskirts. There is an aviation museum at the airport and the city is trying to restore its waterfront along the Maurice River. ''Unlike other towns around that area, like Bridgeton and even Vineland, Millville is trying to do something to revive itself,'' he said. ''If a project like this is going to be done, and it's hard to evaluate it while it is not really formed, city people have to be enthusiastic, and the people in Millville have worked hard to try to revive the town.''
 Mr. McElroy said he was looking to Daytona Beach as a model. Daytona is a bit faded compared to Florida's other coastal resorts, but it has Daytona International Speedway, one of the premier places for Nascar racing, with a facility that can hold 170,000 people.
 ''But we have a lot of smaller races and use the facility sometimes 200 days a year, whether we rent it out for auto schools or other things like that,'' said Wes Harris, director of investor relations for International Speedway Corporation, which owns Daytona and 11 other tracks around the country. ''This is not Chicago or Los Angeles, so we do have a big effect on the market.''
 Really big, said Laurie Campbell-Baker, a spokeswoman for the Daytona Beach Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''We estimate, when you add all the spectators, the hotels, everything, that the speedway contributes $1.5 billion, yes billion, not million, to our economy,'' she said.
 Nobody's talking ''yes billion'' in Millville, to be sure, but as the Nascar dad has become the talked-about entertainment demographic of the early 21st century, many areas around the country are hoping to capitalize, including some that haven't been associated with racing. Mr. Harris said that International Speedway Corporation's most recent developments have not been in places like Talladega and Daytona, but just outside Kansas City, Mo., and Chicago, where tracks were built in 2001.
 ''In the last 15 years, things have been slowly expanding out of the Southeast,'' Mr. Harris said. His company renovated an old track in Joliet, Ill., but started from scratch in Kansas City. Both have 75,000 seats, and while they only fill up on big race weekends, two or three times a year, they hold races and run other motor-sports activities year round. Still, he was a bit skeptical of going beyond racing itself. ''We aren't into hotels,'' he said. ''It may be a bit too much.''

This Year's (Business) Model
 Mr. Lewandowski at Wall Speedway is hoping to energize some new fans.
 ''We have to have a new business model in racing,'' he said. ''We have to look to what minor league baseball has done. Thirty years ago, minor league baseball was on its way out of business. Now it looks to families, does a million promotions, two-for-ones, everything. I think we have to start marketing aggressively. Six Flags has coupons. We need coupons. But minor league ball teams have six or seven marketing people. We can't do that yet.''
 To use the track grounds more fully, the owners at Wall Speedway tried to have a drive-in movie theater on weeknights this summer, but opposition to the traffic thwarted it. Mr. Lewandowski said the idea is delayed for now, but he hopes the neighbors relent, giving them more entertainment outlets and keeping the track going.
 At New Egypt, Ms. Swanson does what she can to complement the racing. There is a Ralphie the Racer Kids Club, Ralphie being a human in a dog suit and a checkered neckerchief. On Saturday nights, Ralphie takes kids 10 and under up to the pits, where drivers hand them bubble soap and candy before the race. When the races start, the kids are with Ralphie in the playground area, getting their faces painted or doing some arts project.
 ''We're trying to build a base here,'' Ms. Swanson said. ''It's a long-term project.'' Mr. Siegel believes his Millville development plan is just the next phase of that.
 ''Nascar is raising the awareness of motor sport nationally and has planted the seed in American minds that watching alone is not the only option,'' he said. ''They want to race or at least ride in the car, so that is what we can do in a resort -- do safety training, have schools for potential drivers, do simulated races. And then to have them have something else when they are done their day, have restaurants and pools and other amenities they might find at, say, a golf resort.''
 Though officials have been wary of saying just how much money they expect the Millville project to bring to the community, Mr. Siegel has predicted it would bring 1,500 permanent jobs when it is built, not to mention temporary jobs that would come in its construction. All the area's state legislators, State Senator Nicholas Asselta, and both state assembly members who represent the district, Jack Gibson and Jeff Van Drew, have endorsed the project. Mr. Siegel said that Millville, or areas like it, are good because they are out of the way, but still have an airport. He's looking not only for middle-class motor-sports fans, but feels that there will be quite a few with their own planes, too.
 ''Paul Newman races,'' he said, referring to the actor. ''There are a lot of affluent people who aren't being catered to right now who like racing.''
 While he isn't expecting Mr. Newman to show up for next Saturday night's card, Mr. Lewandowski of Wall Speedway is rooting for Mr. Siegel to be right.
 ''If something like that happened, it could only help us,'' he said. ''Racing fans tend to be local, and the more people in New Jersey who come out, the more we will all prosper.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: New Jersey has a long tradition of racing: above, weigh-in at the New Egypt Speedway
below, a feature race earlier this summer at Bridgeport Speedway. (Photographs by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Modified stock cars during a warm-up lap at Bridgeport Speedway, top
Kyle Buck, 10, above, getting into the flagman spirit after a crash at the track. Two New Jersey tracks have closed in recent years, but there's a proposal to get Millville in on the action.
At the New Egypt Speedway, from left: the grandstands
a driver, Freddy Dmuchowski Jr., signing a T-shirt
transmission work between races
a fan's checkered-flag tattoo
 and savoring the races on a summer night. (Photographs by Ryan O'Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (92%); NASCAR RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); COUNTIES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (60%) Automobile Racing; New Egypt Speedway (NJ)

ORGANIZATION: National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (67%); BILL CLINTON (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; Millville (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



12 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: This Bennett's Heart Is in the Recording Studio

BYLINE: By MARGO NASH

DATELINE: Englewood 

 BODY:
THE very thought might have made Cole Porter and his delicate cosmopolitan sensibilities flinch, but the new movie about him, ''De-Lovely,'' is spiced by a pinch of New Jersey. Much of the film's piano and incidental music was recorded here by Gil Goldstein at Bennett Studios, opened about three years ago by Dae Bennett, a recording engineer, and his father, the singer Tony Bennett.
 And though it's nice to hobnob musically with Mr. Porter -- even if it's virtually -- that's not close to being the studio's biggest news of the year. When the Grammy Awards were announced back in February, music recorded at Bennett Studios took home six trophies. 
 ''I was floored by that,'' Dae Bennett said. ''I cannot ask for much more than that, because really that is what we are about here.'' 
 One winner was Tony Bennett and k.d. lang's ''A Wonderful World'' (RPM/Columbia Records), which won for best traditional pop vocal album. The trumpeter Randy Brecker's ''34th N Lex'' (ESC) won best contemporary jazz album; Michael Brecker's quindectet won best large jazz ensemble album for ''Wide Angles'' (Verve); Celia Cruz's posthumous album, ''Regalo del Alma'' (Sony Discos), won the best salsa/merengue album award; Jimmy Sturr's ''Let's Polka 'Round'' (Rounder) won best polka album and Michael Brecker and the arranger Gil Goldstein won best instrumental arrangements for the tune ''Timbuktu'' from ''Wide Angles.''
 But things weren't looking quite so rosy in September 2001 when the 6,500-square-foot studio opened in the venerable, slate-roofed Englewood train station. ''Things were a little rough in 2001,'' Mr. Bennett recalled. The weaker economy that came after the 9/11 terrorist attacks had not been part of his business plan. He wondered whether enough music producers and artists from New York and elsewhere would travel to Bennett Studios? He even fretted that they might find the one train that whizzed by the studio every day annoying.
 But business improved, and the train even became an asset. 
 ''We were worried it was going to be a distraction,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''But everyone is like running and posing and taking pictures.'' The producer Phil Ramone was certainly charmed by it.
 ''I loved it when I first came out here, to see a railroad station'' said Mr. Ramone, a producer who has worked with Sinatra, Dylan and McCartney. He also produced Tony Bennett's next album, ''The Art of Romance,'' recorded live at the nearby John Harms Theater by Bennett Studios a few months ago. 
 ''Two things I look for in a studio,'' Mr. Ramone said. ''Atmosphere, and technology that's always ahead of the curve.'' He said Bennett Studios has both. 
 There are two large recording rooms, an underground fiber-optic connection to the Harms Theater for live recordings and surround-sound production. The studio can also provide audio for television, sound for movies and live video streaming. 
 ''And,'' Mr. Ramone said, ''they know how to treat an artist.'' 
 After all, Dae Bennett, 48, Tony Bennett's youngest son, got to know musicians and their ways early. Dizzy Gillespie, for example, was a neighbor when the family lived in Englewood from 1957 to 1971. And another Englewood friend, the celebrated jazz recording engineer Rudy Van Gelder, put together the Bennetts' home studio.
 Dae Bennett, himself, became a musician, singing and playing drums in a rock band until he was 28. But he never wanted to make it as a singer alone, he said. ''I never would have done the junior thing. It just didn't' make sense to me. To be on his level? Who wants to be compared? You were really talking about the head four guys on the planet.'' He was referring to the days when his father, Sinatra, Dean Martin and Mel Torme were all active. 
 Mr. Bennett saw audio engineering and producing as a way to be in the business that he loved. He opened a small recording studio in his home called Hillside Studio, where his clients included Queen Latifah, George Benson, Mr. Gillespie and others.
 Recording engineers no longer toil with razors and tape to alter bits of sound. They use computers. But the human factor has not changed. ''I'm between the artist and technology and the listener,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''It's an interesting place to be.''
 The atmosphere in a recording session is crucial, he said. ''If everybody is having a good time and relaxed, it all gets recorded. And if we're bummed out, and it's not going well and people are arguing, you couldn't erase it with a computer.''
 Another thing that audio engineers cannot do is work miracles. ''We can make their time better, similar to what a photographer does with an airbrush,'' he said. ''But what I can't do is get a good take when there isn't any. The reason I go airbrush on these things is because I've got a beautiful take.''
 There are the times when he records people, like his father, who get it right the first time. ''That first take you got to be rolling,'' he said. ''No practice takes.'' As for recording his father, his aim is to capture the sound of the live performances that have been the mainstay of his career. That was why they recorded him at John Harms.
 ''He's not particularly a modern recording studio guy,'' Mr. Bennett said of his father. ''He doesn't like wearing headphones. That takes him out of his element.''
 After the session at the Harms Theater, Tony Bennett, Mr. Ramone and the Oscar-winning composer and arranger Johnny Mandel, who arranged and conducted most of the tracks on ''The Art of Romance,'' held a sound-mixing session at Bennett Studios. Dae Bennett engineered. At the end of one session, Tony Bennett looked at his son, smiled, walked over and patted his arm.
 Though Dae Bennett did not get any of those six Grammys specifically, as far as his father is concerned they belong to his son, too. ''What a thrill to have your son do so well,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''I love it.'' 
 He was not surprised his son picked this career. ''I watched Dae from a little boy,'' he said. ''We had all kinds of wonderful artists who would come to the house. So he realized that was our life, became interested -- and always listened very carefully to music.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Bennett, right, recording at the John Harms Theater in Englewood in a session engineered by his son Dae, left, who is with his brother and his father's manager, Danny Bennett, standing, and Phil Ramone. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); SOUND RECORDING STUDIOS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FILM (89%); POP & ROCK (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); TRAINS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); BUSINESS PLANS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Music; Recordings (Audio); Awards, Decorations and Honors; Grammy Awards; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: SONY DISCOS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Bennett Studios

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (54%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (54%)

PERSON: Dae Bennett; Tony Bennett; K D Lang; Margo Nash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



13 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Battling Over Noted Sites in Montclair

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: MONTCLAIR 

 BODY:
HOW does demolition occur in Montclair? First there is a series of explosions -- and then, years later, a building might come down.
 Take the Hahne & Company department store building downtown, which has stood vacant for 15 years. The 45-day appeal period on a demolition plan was set in motion in January, only to be stopped by two lawsuits about parking places and other aspects of the developers' plan.
 One lawsuit was quickly dismissed, and the other was rejected by a judge last month. ''Hopefully, they won't appeal and we can begin work and demolition sometime after Labor Day,'' said Steven Mairella of Pinnacle Communities, the developer. But the opponents said they would probably appeal. 
 The plan by Pinnacle and its partner, Kohl Partners, to build the Esplanade, a 101-unit apartment building with 38,800 square feet of street-level retail space and an open walkway for the display of work by local artists, was approved by the local planning board after years of wrangling and delay. The current plan to redevelop the Hahne's property came only after previous efforts, stretching from 1989 to 2002, to preserve and revitalize the existing building had failed.
 For many years, local artists lobbied passionately for the idea of turning the building into an arts center. Various developers proposed a variety of office uses. A string of township politicians tried to resolve the issue. The Town Council agreed that the decrepit structure needed to come down and approved the Esplanade plan in January. 
 The new council, which took office last month with four new members and three old ones, is avowedly pro-development, and all for building up the tax base. Still, dreams of the Hahne's building falling by fall may be entirely premature.
 ''I believe that our position is, we'll appeal to the very end,'' said Garrett Morrison, a member of a group of residents and commercial property owners situated near the site, a block south of the major commercial strip, Bloomfield Avenue. 
 ''The parking situation downtown is really bad,'' Mr. Morrison said. 
 The Esplanade plan includes 132 underground and surface parking spaces for tenants and an additional 98 spaces set aside for its retail customers at a municipal deck that the developers will put up on what is now a municipal parking lot. Critics point out that the 390-space deck will incorporate the 179 existing spaces. A property owner, Neil Cohen, who is financing the legal action but refuses to discuss the issue, has previously questioned why the Esplanade should get allotted spaces when other businesses may increasingly suffer parking problems as the neighborhood gets busier.
 The Esplanade's developers cannot move ahead until all legal questions are resolved, because construction financing is not made available by lenders until that happens. 
 Meanwhile, a half-mile north of downtown, at Watchung Avenue and Grove Street -- the so-called gateway to Montclair for cars coming off the Garden State Parkway -- the saga of the historic Marlboro Inn has begun to unfold with eerie echoes of the Hahne's controversy.
 Last week, Steven D. Plofker, a locally prominent developer who bought the property last year and proposes to build 10 houses on the site, was denied a permit to demolish the Marlboro. The bid was rejected because Mr. Plofker had not yet disconnected power lines and utilities; he can do so later and reapply.
 In the face of fierce opposition from neighbors and preservationists, Mr. Plofker has so far steadily pressed ahead in his quest to bring down the faded inn and build a project that makes ''maximum use'' of its residential location.
 The fight to save the Tudor-style inn, built in the 1840's and graced over the years by the likes of Bette Davis, Arnold Palmer and the crown prince of Liechtenstein, has been waged since Mr. Plofker acquired it last June. The New York Giants defensive end Michael Strahan, a resident of the town, joined the battle, delivering some fiery speeches about architectural history.
 The previous mayor, Robert Russo, enshrined the issue in his campaign slogan -- ''Preserve and Protect Montclair'' -- but then failed to preserve his seat in town government in last spring's election.
 Many residents also actively support Mr. Plofker's plan, saying it is time to let go of a building with no future. As one put it at a public hearing: ''The last thing I want is a big fight'' that would end with a vacant building like Hahne's ''across the street'' from his house.
 The issue of whether another buyer could turn the inn into a viable enterprise remains unresolved. Preservationists won a promise from Mr. Plofker last spring to entertain any reasonable offers. At least one offer from a local couple is known to be pending. Mr. Plofker will not talk about specifics, but did say it is not just a matter of recouping a profit on the $2.25 million he laid out.
 ''More importantly, I'd be looking to someone who could put the resources in the building to bring it up to the required level,'' he said.
 He dismissed a proposal to turn the inn into a nonprofit biblical history museum as economically unrealistic.
 Mr. Plofker, who lives in Montclair with his wife, Bobbi Brown, who is famous for her line of makeups, and their children, has completed a number of other projects in town, including one in which he renovated a historic Victorian home and built condos on three sides of its lot.
 Friends of Marlboro Park, a residents' group, mounted a yearlong effort to have the Marlboro Inn declared a local landmark, which could have ensured its preservation. But on July 13, within two weeks of taking office, the new council rejected a proposed ordinance to do so, which the previous council had supported.
 The action enraged the inn's supporters, who booed the council after the vote. One supporter called the mayor and the deputy mayor ''waterboys for Plofker's interests,'' according to The Montclair Times.
 Mr. Plofker, known to be a generous political contributor, insisted that such claims are ridiculous -- and added that he hoped to make a final decision about demolition versus a sale within the next 60 days.
 And already, a potential sequel may be taking shape: the owner of the Georgian Inn, a 1920's mansion long used as a hotel, on North Mountain Avenue, has quietly let local developers know he is ready to sell.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BETTE DAVIS SLEPT HERE -- Ten houses are proposed for the site of the 1840's Marlboro Inn. (Photo by Richard Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITIES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%) Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Historic Buildings and Sites; Apartment Houses

ORGANIZATION: montclair inn (montclair, nj)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



14 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Shelby Oppel, Nathan Wood

 BODY:
Shelby Reid Oppel, the daughter of Carol V. Oppel and Richard A. Oppel of Austin, Tex., was married yesterday to Nathan James Wood, a son of Warren E. Wood of Alexandria Bay, N.Y., and the late Marilyn T. Wood. The Rev. 
Melissa C. Stewart, a minister of the United Church of Christ, officiated at a home rented for the occasion in Alexandria Bay. The Rev. Randall L. Prior, an Episcopal priest and an uncle of the bride, took part in the ceremony.
 The bride, 31, will continue to use her name professionally. She is an education reporter at The Oregonian, the daily newspaper in Portland. She graduated from Duke University. Her father is the editor of The Austin American-Statesman, the daily, and is a member of the Pulitzer Prize board. He was the president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors in 2000 and 2001. The bride's mother is a freelance writer specializing in religious topics. 
 The bridegroom, 33, is a research geographer in Portland for the United States Geological Survey, studying the social, cultural and economic effects of natural hazards. He is also a Duke graduate and received a master's degree in marine science from the University of South Florida and a doctoral degree in geography from Oregon State. His mother retired as a special education teacher at Joseph C. Wilson Magnet High School in Rochester. His father retired as a director of the management services division of Eastman Kodak, also in Rochester. The bridegroom is a stepson of Elaine M. Wood. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (90%); RELIGION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (75%); WRITERS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); OCEANOGRAPHY (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA (55%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (87%) TEXAS, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



15 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: BAILOUT FEARED IF AIRLINES SHED THEIR PENSIONS

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
In an echo of the savings and loan industry collapse of the 1980's, the federal agency that insures company pensions is facing a possible cascade of bankruptcies and pension defaults in the airline industry that some experts fear could lead to another multibillion-dollar taxpayer bailout.
 ''The similarities are incredible,'' said George J. Benston, a finance professor at Emory University in Atlanta who has written extensively on the regulatory failures that led to the costly savings and loan bailout. 
 Deposits in savings institutions are, like pensions, guaranteed by a federal insurance program. The savings industry first sickened because changes in market conditions made the traditional way savings and loans operated unprofitable, but government delays and policy missteps then made the situation much worse. In the end taxpayers bailed out the industry -- at a cost, according to various estimates, of $150 billion to $200 billion. 
 Now experts say they see similar forces gathering in the pension sector, with United Airlines perhaps the first to go down the path. Operating in bankruptcy, United is striving to attract the lenders and investors it needs to survive. It said last month that it would no longer contribute to its pension plans; United also seems intent on shedding some or all of its $13 billion in pension obligations as the only way to succeed in emerging from bankruptcy proceedings.
 If United manages to cut itself loose from the costly burden of its pension plans, it might force others determined to keep their costs similarly under control to emulate its move. ''Rivals may feel they are at a competitive disadvantage and follow suit, raising the specter of a domino effect in the industry,'' said Bradley D. Belt, the executive director of the government's Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures pensions. If every airline with a traditional pension plan were ultimately to default, the government would be on the hook for an estimated $31 billion. Its insurance coverage is limited, so some employees would have their benefits reduced.
 ''The pension insurance program is there to protect workers' benefits,'' said Mr. Belt, who took over the agency in April. ''It shouldn't be used as a piggy bank to help companies restructure.''
 Already, some airline employees are taking steps to protect themselves against future pension losses.
 Each month, for example, about 30 pilots normally retire from Delta Air Lines. But in June, almost 300 did.
 Andrew Dean, one of the new retirees, said he and his colleagues watched in dismay as the financial debacle unfolded at United. He said that he and many of his fellow pilots decided they had better grab their pensions right away -- while the money was still there.
 ''These are very scary times right now for someone in my position,'' said Mr. Dean, who at 58 walked away from his job just as he was reaching the peak earning period of his career. His pension was also reduced because he retired early.
 But his decision now looks prescient. On Friday, Delta asked its pilots for a 35 percent pay cut and proposed a smaller pension plan.
 Foremost on the minds of the departing pilots, Mr. Dean said, were arcane pension rules that can offer advantages to workers who quit before a pension plan fails. At Delta, for example, as long as the pension plan stays afloat, pilots are allowed to take half of their benefit in a single check when they retire. But if the plan fails, the pilots lose their chance to take a big payout. 
 ''What I've managed to do is secure half of my retirement,'' Mr. Dean said. He may still lose the rest if the government takes over the program and limits future payouts. ''I really lose sleep over that,'' he said. 
 The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is already hobbled by debt, having picked up the pieces of more than 3,200 failed pension plans in its 30-year life. The scale of the failures has risen sharply in the last three years, but the agency has few tools at its disposal to prevent the situation from becoming worse.
 Now it faces a possible $5 billion default by United -- which would be a record -- and the possibility of more big airline defaults after that.
 ''The agency can't take a lot of $5 billion hits, multiple times per year, year after year, and survive,'' said Steven A. Kandarian, the pension agency's immediate past director. ''Eventually, you'll run out of money.''
 It is impossible to predict the exact size of any pension bailout, although economic projections by the agency suggest that in the worst case, a bailout within the next decade involving failures beyond the airlines could cost taxpayers up to $110 billion.
 But because pension obligations, unlike bank deposits, do not have to be paid off all at once, it is difficult to raise alarms about the threat. 
 ''The real blowup doesn't happen right away; it happens over time,'' Mr. Kandarian said. ''You've got to address it now, but it doesn't look like a crisis now. The crisis is always over the next hill.''
 The risk is that the longer the problems are avoided, the worse they can get.
 ''With the S.&L.'s, what was a relatively small problem in the early 1980's became over a $100 billion problem in the late 1980's,'' said Mr. Kandarian, who fears the same thing will happen to the pension system. 
 United, the nation's second-largest carrier behind American, is one of the worst off of the airlines. The entire industry has been coping with high fuel prices and flagging demand, particularly since the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
 But United and the other five remaining major carriers that grew up in a world of regulated routes and ticket prices -- American, Continental, Delta, Northwest and US Airways -- face even more fundamental problems. In recent years, all of them have struggled to compete with the new, low-cost carriers like Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran that have much lower overhead. 
 United has been operating in bankruptcy proceedings since December 2002. Already, it has negotiated significant concessions from its workers, suppliers, landlords and others. United says it is still analyzing what to do with its pension plans.
 In June, the Air Transportation Stabilization Board turned down United's request for federal loan guarantees, saying it believed the airline could get financing without government help. So far, United has not been able to. Until it does, it cannot emerge from bankruptcy proceedings. 
 It is an open secret that prospective financiers are turned off by the roughly $13 billion of pension debt United is carrying on its books -- the one big block of debt that the airline has left untouched so far. That figure is the value, in today's dollars, of the pensions that United's pilots, flight attendants and other workers and retirees have earned. Once a pension has been earned, it cannot legally be taken away. 
 By law, this debt to the work force is to be secured by the money United sets aside in its four big pension funds. But as things have turned out, United had only about $7 billion in the pension funds as of last December.
 The remaining $6 billion is unsecured debt. Pension law and bankruptcy law differ on the implications of this: pension law says the $13 billion owed to the workers cannot be taken away, while bankruptcy law says the workers are unsecured creditors with respect to the $6 billion shortfall. And unsecured creditors usually lose in a bankruptcy case.
 If, in the coming months, United persuades its bankruptcy judge that it cannot survive without canceling its pension debts, then the airline will be allowed to unload some or all of its $13 billion obligation, helping it line up the financing it needs to emerge from bankruptcy proceedings.
 The pension debt, and the $7 billion United has already set aside in pension assets, will go to the federal pension agency, which will pay the airline's retirees their benefits, but only up to certain limits.
 Hard as that would be on the employees of United, it is also an alarming prospect to the employees of the other major carriers.
 ''Things start to set a precedent,'' Mr. Dean, the retired Delta pilot, said. ''If a bankruptcy court allows a company to terminate its pensions, then that becomes a very tempting business tool.'' 
 That is what happened in the steel industry. LTV Steel's pension fund fell to the government in March 2002, and its unencumbered assets -- steel mills, coke and lime plants, railroads and other properties -- were snapped up at once. That put pressure on other tottering steel companies to shed their pension plans as well. 
 Seven more failing steel plans went to the government before the year was out, including the current record-holder among pension defaults, the Bethlehem Steel plan, which cost the pension agency $3.9 billion to take over.
 It wasn't supposed to be this way. In 1974, Congress responded to an ugly string of pension failures in the auto industry by passing landmark legislation. From then on, any company that promised pensions to its workers would be required to set aside enough money to pay them. Rules were written to determine how much money was enough. To weave the retirement safety net even more tightly, Congress also created the pension insurance program.
 Those protections were hailed as ''the greatest development in the life of the American worker since Social Security'' by Senator Jacob K. Javits, the New York Republican who died in 1986. 
 But for many workers, those protections no longer look so secure.
 ''You see that the whole thing could really be a house of cards that could come crashing down,'' Mr. Dean said.
 United's pension plan developed its multibillion-dollar shortfall, in part, because pension law allows companies to fund their plans with the assets that any prudent investor would select. Over time, that has meant a shift away from the very conservative bonds that companies used to secure pensions before the 1974 law, in favor of more aggressive investments.
 Stocks have become the investment of choice, but today many pension funds seek to bolster their returns even more by adding relatively small amounts of hedge funds, junk bonds and other risky assets. This investment approach can produce attractive returns over time, but can be very volatile and much more dangerous if companies are forced to pay off some of their pension obligations in a down market. 
 As the pension system has weakened, some specialists have called for measures that would discourage the riskiest investments. As director of the pension agency, Mr. Kandarian proposed charging higher insurance premiums to companies that invested their pension funds in riskier assets, particularly companies that were in bad shape themselves. No one paid attention.
 ''I was naive,'' Mr. Kandarian said.
 Along with Mr. Kandarian, current officials at the pension agency and at the Treasury Department have also been calling for a tightening of the rules requiring pensions to set aside enough money to meet their obligations. In April, Congress loosened the rules instead. The biggest flexibility was given to the most troubled industries, making their pension funds look healthier.
 ''Doctoring the numbers is all they're doing, and they're especially doing it for steel and airlines,'' Mr. Benston said. ''Shades of the savings and loan crisis. Same darn thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bradley D. Belt, executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, says his agency is not ''a piggy bank to help companies.'' (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. 20)Graph: ''Surging Claims''In the last three years, the federal agency that insures pensions has been forced to take on much larger debt from failed corporate pension plans.Graph tracks gross claims, in billions, adjusted for inflation from 1985 - 2003.(Source by Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%) Airlines and Airplanes; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Defaulting; Bankruptcies; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (65%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp; United Airlines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; Bradley D Belt

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



16 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KIPS BAY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Tenants Battle for Low Rents, and a Diverse Building

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GWERTZMAN

 BODY:
Mary Ann Kalambay describes her community, the eight residential towers of Phipps Plaza West, as Camelot, a mosaic of supportive residents that she says is impossible to find in New York City these days. 
 But Camelot is coming to an end. After 28-years as a Mitchell-Lama building, housing thousands of low- and middle-income tenants, the development has become a market-rate rental, and was recently christened Kips Bay Court. 
 ''We are a community that is completely diverse, by age, by race, by economic status,'' says Ms. Kalambay, a 21-year tenant of Phipps Plaza West, which spans First and Second Avenues from 26th Street to 29th Street and includes about 900 units. ''When these apartments become luxury high rises, do you think we'll still have the same ethnic diversity? I doubt it.'' 
 Ms. Kalambay is one of about 80 tenants who have fought tooth and nail over the past two years to preserve their community and hang on to their low rents. Her group refused to join a February settlement with the landlord, Phipps Houses, electing to continue a lawsuit challenging the rent increases, which went into effect in October. 
 But a judge dismissed the lawsuit in May, and if they lose their appeal, they will be forced to pay market rents or face eviction over nonpayment. According to Phipps management, three-bedroom apartments that rented for $1,500 under Mitchell-Lama are now priced around $4,000, with studios around $1,700. 
 The tenants of Phipps Plaza West sued the landlord to block any rent increases in 2003, when Phipps Houses took the option to buy out of Mitchell-Lama. The suit argued that a Land Disposition Agreement required the land to be kept as low- and moderate-income housing for 40 years, superseding any Mitchell-Lama obligations.
 While Justice Sherry Klein Heitler of State Supreme Court ruled that the tenants had no standing to enforce the 40-year contract, she also wrote that the land agreement did prevent the landlords from increasing the rent beyond Mitchell-Lama levels until Sept. 10. 
 Based on the justice's ruling, the smaller tenant group is claiming that the rent increases are invalid, and that the landlord has been improperly accepting federal subsidies for tenants eligible for vouchers under the settlement. The tenants' lawyer, Tom Monaghan, says the landlord has been receiving $2 million in subsidies every month. He has been pushing state, local and federal officials to investigate, but says few have been willing to get involved.
 Adam Weinstein, president of Phipps Houses, says there is no wrongdoing regarding the vouchers. He says he is willing to reoffer the settlement rents to the tenants, which he calls an ample concession. He said the nonprofit developer left Mitchell-Lama to satisfy the development's initial investors, but said he felt that all the tenants got a fair deal. ''I think I can say with good conscience,'' he said, ''that the rents we are offering are equivalent to the city's affordable housing program.'' MICHAEL GWERTZMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); EVICTION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); JUDGES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); APPEALS (70%); STANDING TO SUE (66%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Mitchell-Lama Projects

PERSON: Michael Gwertzman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



17 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: Seniority

BYLINE: By Naomi Schaefer Riley. 
Naomi Schaefer Riley is an adjunct fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a research institution in Washington. She is writing a book on religious colleges, to be published by St. Martin's Press in January.

 BODY:
THE administrative offices of Touro College on West 23rd Street in Manhattan could generously be called unassuming. The elevator is a jerky conveyance that does not inspire confidence. The reception area's walls are bare and unevenly painted; the carpet is stained. New technology is scarce: even the bulky two-tone phones seem from another era. The president of Touro, Bernard Lander, often answers them himself, if only to tell people he can't talk right now. 
 In fact, many of Touro's more than 29 campuses, from Manhattan to California to Israel to Moscow, are in need of refreshment. Slowly, Touro is accomplishing this -- it opened a $15 million campus in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn in 1997, and the school of education moved into a new building in Manhattan in early spring. But administrative offices are at the bottom of the list, which speaks as much about Dr. Lander as it does about capital budgets. 
 Having founded Touro in 1970, Bernard Lander is one of the longest-serving college presidents in the country. (Norman C. Francis, president of Xavier University of Louisiana, has been in office since 1968.) But at 89, Dr. Lander is clearly the oldest, and continues to guide the curriculum, budget, hiring decisions and building projects. 
 Dr. Lander pioneered no-frills education when adult education for the working class was in its infancy. He opened his first ''campus'' in an office building on West 44th Street (now a private club of the University of Pennsylvania), with 35 students and the idea that education should be individualized and classes personal. It would be, he said, ''a college which serves the Jewish people and strengthens Jewish heritage, and because of its commitment to Judeo-Christian heritage serves everyone.'' 
 The going was bumpy, but today, Touro has 16,000 students. The college of liberal arts and sciences, with campuses in Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan, offers gender-separated classes for Orthodox students. But less than half the enrollment is Jewish, and the curriculum is primarily secular. Other divisions provide job-oriented education like physical therapy certification and computer-technician training, mostly serving minority communities in Harlem, Brooklyn and Korean- and Chinese-speaking neighborhoods of Queens. Some 6,000 students are pursuing graduate degrees, including M.B.A.'s, doctorates of osteopathic medicine and juris doctorates. Touro's law school has a well-regarded public service program. As for its more vocational offerings, undergraduates consistently score third in the country on C.P.A. exams.
 Last fall, Touro opened a campus in the Berlin villa of a Jewish family forced to flee the Nazis, offering American baccalaureate degrees in business management with the option of taking classes in Hebrew and Jewish studies. Of the 35 students, 75 percent are Jewish. ''I want to help rebuild Jewish life in Berlin,'' said Dr. Lander, noting that the city's 100,000 Jews, many of them Russian immigrants, have little knowledge of their religion. He also sees the college helping young Eastern Europeans become more ''economically and culturally integrated into Europe.'' 
 It's a quixotic notion worthy of Dr. Lander, who was a participant in the early days of the civil rights movement and took on the ultra-Orthodox community of Brooklyn in the 1970's to promote secular education.
 A small, hunched man with a full head of white hair, Dr. Lander sat for an interview with nothing on the table in front of him. He sat in an empty conference area with his executive assistant, Rabbi Elihu Marcus, as other administrators used his office for meetings. For an hour he barely shifted in his seat, and only occasionally lifted a hand to his chin. Most of his movement was facial, especially as he talked about a new project (of which there are always several in the works). 
 If there is some unifying mission, Dr. Lander articulates it through his own long life of diverse interests. ''Touro as it exists today,'' he said, ''reflects my background and my intellectual growth.'' He clearly enjoys reciting his biography. Interrupt him and he'll talk over you or give a brief answer and pick up where he left off. 
 A graduate of Yeshiva College, Dr. Lander was ordained at age 21 and became a rabbi for a congregation in Baltimore. He simultaneously pursued a Ph.D. at Columbia in sociology and wrote his dissertation on how the schools, police and courts deal with juvenile delinquency. The governor of Maryland then tapped him to help remake the state's juvenile delinquency system. 
 In 1944, Dr. Lander returned to New York to serve on one of the nation's first civil rights commissions, the Mayor's Committee on Unity, formed amid citywide concerns about race relations. Fiorello H. La Guardia had appointed him, and the committee, which had no enforcement power, issued reports supporting Jackie Robinson in his bid to play Major League baseball and opposing the segregation of trains to and from the South. 
 But the actions Dr. Lander talks about most today regard education. The commission worked to overturn quotas on the number of Jewish students at colleges and pushed for the creation of a state university system to allow minorities greater access to higher education. ''I am a strong proponent of integration and of being thoroughly part of the larger society,'' said Dr. Lander, who also served on commissions to address poverty for Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and John F. Kennedy. 
 While teaching sociology at Hunter College and serving as dean of Yeshiva University's graduate schools, Dr. Lander was conducting research on poverty for the Center for the Study of Man at Notre Dame University. From 1961 to 1969, he said, ''I spent a large part of my time in what was known as El Barrio, 100th Street between First and Second Avenues. A block is a social microcosm. We studied every aspect of life on that block, and discovered the war against poverty did not work.
 His educational epiphany evolved out of research into the campus riots of the late 1960's. He found, he said, ''a direct correlation between size of school and the extent of the rioting.
 ''My conclusion,'' he said, ''was that the rioting was a reflection of how students were being treated as automatons. There was no relationship between students and university anymore. They were rioting against the depersonalization of American education.'' 
 He decided his college would take an individualized approach to education to bring people on the cultural and economic fringes of society into the mainstream. As a result, the student-teacher ratio is 9 to 1 (compared with 15 to 1 at Pace University and 19 to 1 at St. John's University), scheduling is flexible (including evening and Sunday classes), and locations are central. Tuition is $5,000 a semester -- about $1,000 more than the senior colleges of the City University of New York and almost twice as much as the junior ones. But it is less than some comparable private colleges, like St. Francis in Brooklyn and Marymount Manhattan. Admission is fairly open for many of the branches, and some don't even require SAT scores. Tutoring and mentoring programs help the less prepared catch up.
 Faculty members joke that Dr. Lander dotes on new programs like a child with a new toy, leaving older programs to fend for themselves, but they appreciate the lack of bureaucracy in an administration that is so minimal as to raise comment. In 1998, the accreditation team reviewing the college cited its skeletal infrastructure -- too lean an administration, too few support staff members, too small a library and too little technology. Touro has addressed some of the concerns, and its accreditation was never threatened. The institution is, as the team put it, ''doing what it says it is doing.
 But that wasn't the first time the college has faced problems. The first chairman of the school's board was convicted of Medicaid fraud. In the late 1970's, Touro was fined $500,000 because its adult education program was getting state tuition aid for elderly students who knew little English or who were too incapacitated to attend classes. The fine was dropped when the state decided the regulations were unclear. 
 Dr. Lander called the incident isolated. He is accustomed to rolling a rock uphill. In 1988, he took on the ultra-Orthodox community of Brooklyn. In the 1980's, as Orthodox Judaism turned increasingly insular, it became more common for men to study the Torah all day and receive public assistance for their large families instead of working. Dr. Lander refers to it as ''this separation from the world.
 ''I feel it is proper to study, to live a life of piety and decency but to be thoroughly open to the world outside, contributing to a better world for everybody,'' Dr. Lander said. 
 He decided to establish a college in the heart of Flatbush. ''I was attacked vehemently, with signs throughout the city including in my own neighborhood, saying, 'It's a mitzvah to kill Dr. Lander and whoever does it has a special reward.''' The campaign still riles this elder statesman, though hostilities ceased long ago and the college has gained neighborhood support. 
 Rabbi Marcus, sitting silently by Dr. Lander during the interview, volunteered the story of the Flatbush campus's first graduation ceremony. ''The valedictorian stood up with his black garb and peos and he said, 'This is the first time in my life instead of going around on the dole that I'm going to earn a living.' He pulled out a check and showed it to everyone. It was for $70 or so. And he said, 'I'm 40 years old with six children and this is the first honest money I ever earned and I got it thanks to Touro.'
 Dr. Lander smiled widely at the recounting of the story, which he had no doubt heard many times. His own son, who was in Touro's first graduating class, bucked his father's politics regarding Jewish orthodoxy. ''An A student,'' Dr. Lander said, ''six months from a Ph.D. at N.Y.U., he comes and says, 'Daddy, I don't want to complete my Ph.D. I want to devote myself to Jewish studies.'
 Then he dived into his plans for the future, listing several programs he is putting together for next year. ''Am I shocking you that I'm past 80 and dreaming like this?'' he asked. 
 Without waiting for an answer, he explained, ''To live is to create. If you stop creating you become a vegetable. As long as the Almighty gives you the strength and the mind, you should make use of them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: About half of Touro's students are Jewish, but its curriculum is largely secular. Offerings range from law to acupuncture. (Photographs by Carrie Boretz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); OSTEOPATHY (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (60%) Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (55%) Touro College

PERSON: naomi schaefer riley; Bernard (Dr) Lander

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



18 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: No She Said No She Will No

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
SID SACHS, who organized the small but potent survey of the work of Yvonne Rainer now at Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions, doesn't mince words. The first sentence of his essay in the show's catalog announces, ''Yvonne Rainer is one of the most influential artists of the past four decades.''
 The statement may give some people pause, partly because it substitutes artist for choreographer-filmmaker, the designation -- variously modified by Minimalist, feminist or postmodernist -- by which Rainer is most widely known. 
 But ''Yvonne Rainer: Radical Juxtapositions, 1961-2002,'' which Mr. Sachs originally organized at the Rosenwald Wolf Gallery at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, provides full corroboration, ''artist'' included. It reveals someone consistently working near capacity, using her different mediums as fully, intelligently and entertainingly as possible while staying on the move creatively. In the process it outlines an achievement that brings together the disparate strands of postwar art from Fluxus and Neo-Dada, through Pop and Minimalism to postmodern appropriation. 
 Despite an absence of traditional art objects, the show vividly communicates the basic building blocks of Ms. Rainer's sensibility: her abiding sense of humor, from physical comedy to linguistic punning; her emphasis on art's inherent artificiality -- its self-awareness -- even when it seems to absorb huge chunks of unadulterated life; and her ability to juggle these chunks into elaborate multiple narratives (at least one of which usually concerns the nature of the artwork itself) and her attraction to popular culture.
 Fittingly, the exhibition is an array of fragments. There are clips of Ms. Rainer dancing in the 1960's and segments from the films that she started making in the early 1970's, the set for ''Inner Appearances,'' a pivotal performance piece, and sundry drawings, notebooks, documentary photographs and posters, displayed in vitrines or on the wall. And in a bit of serendipitous dovetailing, the white-on-white galleries of this low-budget alternative space, which is situated in a cursorily renovated supermarket-size storefront on Hollywood Boulevard, resemble a studio where Ms. Rainer might have worked.
 Ms. Rainer started out in New York in the early 60's and played a leading role in the experimental dance explosion that centered on the Judson Church. She had studied with Martha Graham and Merce Cunningham and had been inspired by John Cage's contention that any sound is music and by Buster Keaton's eternal deadpan. Her work paralleled the innovations of Pop Art and especially Minimalism in its embrace of everyday gestures and its rejection of traditional artistic values. Her dances incorporated familiar movements and tasks, executed with palpable concentration: people walked, ran and in one case moved a mattress. Like a good Minimalist she spoke of the body as an object, a thing of weight and mass. Her choreography was nothing if not self-evident in its structure, free of embellishment, plain-spoken as a Donald Judd box.
 That she rejected many things was clear in her famous manifesto of 1965, published in The Tulane Drama Review, which said, in part, ''no to spectacle, no to virtuosity, no to transformations and magic and make believe, no to moving or being moved.'' She spurned the idea of trying to please an audience; she avoided eye contact and never smiled, developing a style that could seem positively Lincolnesque. She shattered the age-old muteness of dance by talking. In the show, one of Ms. Rainer's drawings for a dance exercise captures her Cagean anything-is-dance approach. It plots the individual paths of four dancers across the stage (usually a fairly straight line) and assigns each different activities: ''Comb your hair, rest, sleep, practice pirouettes in whatever sequence you want along a fixed route. If you choose to stop at any point, you must bark like a dog.'' Or: ''Eat raisins -- one at a time.'' 
 In the 1970's, Ms. Rainer segued through performance to film, partly by filming her performances. Film was time-based, like dance, but a lot less ephemeral and infinitely more complicated in its possibilities. It let Ms. Rainer move inside the body, to articulate its emotions and psychology as directly as she had its limbs. She wove the mechanics of living, especially of relationships between men and women, into the mechanics of filmmaking, creating elaborate collagelike narratives. Language became multifarious; spoken dialogue could be replaced by opera arias, or voice-overs spoken by the actors or someone else. Typewritten intertitles were sometimes inserted, evoking silent-films. These works are infused with slapstick humor, autobiographical plot twists (breast cancer, becoming a lesbian) and a skeptical nonideological feminism, as well as sudden shifts in tone or point of view. 
 ''A Film About a Woman Who,'' her second film, is represented here with a segment in which the female character gradually realizes that she is furious with her lover. To our relief, the film's narrator interrupts this dithering with an intertitle aside: ''Do you think she could figure her way out of a paper bag?''
 Ms. Rainer's physicality as a dancer carries over into her films, which exude both structural deliberation and tremendous fluidity. The critic Lucy R. Lippard may have put it best in 1975 when she wrote, Ms. Rainer ''uses words and images as though they were the same medium, as though you could start a sentence verbally and finish it visually.''
 Ms. Rainer is considered a major force in pushing dance from late modernism -- as exemplified by Cunningham -- to postmodernism. But this show confirms that her work belongs to a postmodernism that is bigger than dance, or film for that matter. In addition to being a major Minimal artist, Ms. Rainer also deserves full membership in the generation of Conceptual artists whose work in performance, process art and especially image-text combinations laid the groundwork for the postmodern artists of the 1980's and 90's.
 In addition, Ms. Rainer combined word and image with a visual panache that outstripped most Conceptualists except Lawrence Weiner. Although you don't often see their names in the same sentence, I think the lightness, economy and down-home glamour of her work, as well as its use of language as image, has something in common with Ed Ruscha.
 In the late 1970's and early 1980's, stills from ''A Story About a Woman Who'' -- like the one showing the artist sitting on a chair on a darkened stage with a bright rectangle of projected text behind her -- had acquired a charge similar to the images of performances by Vito Acconci, Terry Fox or Chris Burden. I remember making a slide of a ''Woman Who'' performance photograph in Avalanche, a short-lived downtown art magazine of the 1970's, and using it in a lecture on what I called figure-envy -- how the use of images in performance and conceptual art had inspired the return to the figure among painters and sculpture. (It was always a thrill to see that slide pop onto the screen.) 
 Ms. Rainer's work in performance and film has a visual style and emotional temperature that aligns it with the different factions of 80's art, and their conflicting interests in sex, sexuality and sexism and, as time proceeded, gender, class and color. She dealt with a weird mix of political issues and hot topics in a cool way that either influenced or presaged the work of all kinds of artists: Cindy Sherman, David Salle, Barbara Kruger and Felix Gonzalez-Torres. Her affection for certain particulars, like typewriter typefaces, finds echoes today in the text wall pieces of Ricci Albenda and Douglas Gordon. In the Lippard article, Ms. Rainer speaks of her ''theory that the most scabrous confessional kind of soap-opera verbiage or experience can be transmitted through highly rigorous formal means and have a fresh impact.'' Dozens of younger artists -- on all sides of the theory divide -- might have said that.
 When it comes to theory, Ms. Rainer's own refusal to be pinned down is worth noting. On the controversies triggered among feminist film theorists by ''Film About a Woman Who,'' she has written: ''I sometimes found myself fending off partisans from both sides of the barricades.''
 The show culminates in two ambitious works. One is Ms. Rainer's first video installation, ''After Many a Summer Dies the Swan: Hybrid,'' whose text ruminates on the disintegration of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the decadence of much of its art. It is not quite clear what this subject has to do with the visual components -- a video of Mikhail Baryshnikov's White Oak Dance Project rehearsing bits and pieces of her Judson-period works. But the texts and images revolving around the walls of the small circular gallery are beautiful and disturbing, especially if you sit on one of the pillowy rolling stools provided. Then the precarious world that Ms. Rainer evokes turns visceral. It is our own.
 The other piece is a projection of Charles Atlas's ''Rainer Variations,'' a film about her that melds documentary footage of Rainer performances, several Rainer voice-over tactics, actors from various Rainer films and Ms. Rainer herself into a brilliant homage. The best part shows Ms. Rainer rehearsing with the female impersonator Richard Move, who is gotten up beautifully as Martha Graham (his signature character). Ms. Rainer calmly tries to impose her understated, inexpressive style -- the ''no's'' of her manifesto -- but Graham/Move is just as calmly having none of it. Quietly Oedipal, the scene suggests coexisting universes: two, or maybe three, artists going about the business of being themselves as deliberately as possible, which is all you can really ask.
 Ms. Rainer's greatness is substantiated by this efficient show, which after closing in Los Angeles next Sunday will travel to the Haggerty Museum of Art at Marquette University in Milwaukee. It is not coming to New York, a lapse that leaves open the possibility for a larger, more thorough exhibition. Such a show would give Ms. Rainer's work the exposure it deserves in the town where she has lived and worked for 40 years.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Yvonne Rainer, at left above, with Richard Move (as Martha Graham) in Charles Atlas's film ''Rainer Variations.'' At left, a set for her performance ''Inner Appearances.'' (Photo by Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); FILM (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); DANCE (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (56%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Yvonne Rainer; Roberta Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



19 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Trade Group to Cut Farm Subsidies for Rich Nations

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 31 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization agreed Saturday that it would eventually eliminate billions of dollars of farm subsidies for rich nations in a new framework for revising global trade rules aimed at helping the world's poorest people.
 The framework agreement approved Saturday night amounts to the halfway point in this round of talks. Officials hope for a successful conclusion in 2006, about the time that Congress will be renewing the farm program, which will have to include the changes finally agreed to by the global trade body.
 Foreign Minister Celso Amorim of Brazil, who has become a spokesman for the developing world on those issues, said the accord reached here was a milestone for farmers who could never compete against the rich world's subsidized crops and who were going out of business by the millions.
 ''This is the beginning of the end of subsidies,'' Mr. Amorim said. ''It is a rare combination of social justice and trade coming together.'' 
 After its very public failure to reach an accord in Cancun, Mexico, last year, the trade body and its members said they were determined to revive this round of talks despite skeptics who questioned the rich nations' sincerity. But rich and poor countries alike have been questioning the world's trading system and blaming globalization for many ills, from outsourcing jobs to lowering standards of living. So the talks here have been seen as essential to proving that trade can be fair.
 Any deal would have required serious changes in agriculture by many nations. The World Bank, International Monetary Fund and the United Nations have said that the $300 billion in annual subsidies and supports given to farmers in the world's wealthiest nations are some of the worst injustices in the global economy.
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, and Pascal Lamy, the top trade minister for the European Union, promised at the beginning of the year to revive this round of trade talks, known as the Doha round. Those men, the world's two most powerful trade ministers, traveled the globe to seek compromises with other countries, especially those in the new alliance of 20 developing nations that includes Brazil, China, India and South Africa and represents more than half the world's population.
 In his remarks, Mr. Zoellick thanked President Bush for showing the confidence to let him pursue the talks. ''President Bush confounded conventional wisdom by empowering me and my administration colleagues to make trade success a priority, even in an election year, because he believes open markets build stronger economies and help create jobs in the United States and opportunity around the world,'' he said.
 Supachai Panitchpakdi, the director general of the World Trade Organization, also praised the agreement after the long evening session. His tenure will be judged on the success of this round, which could add $3 trillion to the world economy.
 In an e-mailed message, Democrats immediately belittled the framework, saying it was too little and too late for the American economy. ''After almost four years, it appears that the result is to simply identify for our trading partners the barriers they have had in place throughout the years of this administration to U.S. exported manufactured goods,'' said Representative Sander Levin, Democrat of Michigan and ranking minority member of the Ways and Means Trade subcommittee. ''In the face of 2.5 million jobs lost, we can and must do better for hard-working Americans.''
 In leading up to the steps on Saturday, the first wealthy countries to blink were the Europeans. Earlier this year, Mr. Lamy offered to eliminate the European Union's $3 billion in farm export subsidies. That put the spotlight on the United States.
 ''We took a risk and it worked,'' Mr. Lamy said. ''It was worth it for us and for the developing countries.''
 In the talks here, the United States agreed with other wealthy nations to a 20 percent cut in some of its farm subsidies, which was seen, in part, as an effort to match the European pledge. In the United States, the cuts could include some of the $19 billion given annually to farmers who raise cotton, rice, corn, wheat and soybeans. But during the all-night talks that lasted into Saturday morning, several developing countries questioned whether there would be an overall reduction in American subsidies or simply shifting subsidies from one category to another. 
 ''The cuts are important but there's a fair bit of people promising not to do something that they're not doing anyway,'' said Jim Sutton, a New Zealand delegate.
 The United States also resolved an emotional issue left over from the Cancun talks by reaching an agreement with four impoverished West African nations -- Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad and Mali. They had pleaded for relief from subsidized American cotton that they said had driven down world prices and destroyed the livelihoods and the lives of thousands of their farmers.
 Under the framework, the United States agreed to speed up its reduction of subsidies for cotton, which were recently declared illegal by a World Trade Organization tribunal. The agreement also calls for help in finding more development aid for those African countries.
 In return, the countries without subsidies agreed to make changes as well. The highest agricultural tariffs will be cut more deeply than the lowest ones, and countries with state trading enterprises -- like Canada with its wheat board -- accepted new restrictions on how they sell their commodities. Those changes should translate into more open markets for American agricultural goods, a goal that Mr. Zoellick had said was critical to achieving a balanced trade round.
 Many difficult questions were left unanswered until the next gathering of negotiators. A group of wealthy nations including Japan, Norway and Switzerland agreed that their biggest tariffs should be cut the most. But they persuaded the 147 members of the trade organization to postpone making decisions about how much the tariffs would be reduced, with a special eye toward tariffs they impose to protect what they call sensitive products. Those include rice for Japan and dairy products for Norway and Switzerland. ''We maybe have mixed feelings, but we said yes,'' said Masato Kitera, a Japanese delegate at the talks. ''We will negotiate the level of tariffs later.''
 Many of the ideas behind the agricultural compromise came from a small group -- including the United States, the European Union, Australia and Brazil -- that was created by Mr. Zoellick and Mr. Lamy to craft a consensus in separate discussions before and during this week's trade talks. Two of its members -- Brazil and India -- were invited to join the United States, the European Union and Australia in separate talks before and during this session to reach a consensus on agriculture.
 Kamal Nath, India's commerce minister, a member of the group, said the accord was a long-awaited acknowledgement that wealthy nations' farm subsidies were unfair. ''It has finally dawned on everyone that our farmers can't compete against subsidized crops,'' he said. He also said the accord was a tribute to Mr. Lamy and Mr. Zoellick.
 The deal could be the final legacy on the global trade arena for the two men. Mr. Lamy's commission is over in October, and Mr. Zoellick's position probably depends on whether President Bush is re-elected.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy, the top trade official for the European Union, was surrounded by journalists as he entered the negotiations at the World Trade Organization headquarters in Geneva yesterday, after an all-night session. (Photo by Fabrice Coffrini/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); OUTSOURCING (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PASCAL LAMY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



20 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Script Calls for Act II for Four Theaters

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
FOUR of Connecticut's venerable theaters are bringing their production capabilities into the 21st century by moving or by getting extensive makeovers.

Westport Country Playhouse
 In Westport, $22.5 million of a goal of $30 million has been raised to renovate the Westport Country Playhouse. Work began last month on the familiar red barn, which was bought from a local farmer in 1931 and turned into a summer theater by Lawrence Langner, then a director of the prestigious Theater Guild in New York. It was later sold to new owners, who ran it until 2001, when it became the nonprofit Connecticut Theater Foundation.
 With the building's mechanical systems in a state of collapse, buckets needed to collect rainwater in the auditorium, decaying beams and poor access for patrons who use wheelchairs, ''we were faced with no choice but to renovate,'' said Alison Harris, the executive director. 
 When Joanne Woodward was then asked to become the artistic director, she accepted. ''I owed it to the Langners,'' she said, ''who, after all, gave me and Paul our first jobs in the theater. And I owed it to the town of Westport, which has been a home for our family for decades.'' 
 The theater will reopen next summer, with 580 seats rather than the current 707, eliminating those that are poorly situated. Sight lines, seating and acoustics will be improved, and a new entrance lobby, a new balcony lobby, the theater's first elevator and new bathrooms will be installed. There will be a new scene shop, new dressing rooms, a new orchestra pit and steel cable rigging and grid to permit flying heavy scenery. A new roof will dispossess the raccoons nesting in the old one. The see-through barn siding will be encased within weathertight siding that will look the same, but protect the original from further deterioration.

Goodspeed Opera House
 While East Haddam's 127-year-old Goodspeed Opera House has never presented an opera, it was famous for bringing live shows to the region in its early days. It fell on hard times after its benefactor, William Goodspeed, a shipping magnate, died in 1926, but in the early 60's it was saved from demolition and restored by theater lovers, and in the early 70's it was added to the National Register of Historic Places. Under the guidance of Michael Price, the executive director, it has produced 183 American musical revivals in the past 41 years, sending 16 of them to Broadway and earning two Tony Awards for outstanding achievement in musical and regional theater.
 ''There are more theaters per capita in Connecticut than any other state, and we are exporters,''' said Mr. Price. But because of Goodspeed's small stage and lack of fly space, it has cost tens of thousands of dollars to rebuild shows in order to send them to Broadway.
 Last year, Goodspeed bought the building housing the town's Chevrolet dealership for $499,000, hoping to build a new theater with more than its current 398 seats. Then, this year, Goodspeed was wooed by the city of Middletown with an irresistible offer.
 Middletown is positioning Goodspeed as the cultural centerpiece of a 10-year plan to rejuvenate its downtown. It will raise $40 million and build a theater according to Goodspeed's specifications, with 700 seats and a 40-by-80-foot stage. The new theater will replace Middletown's Capitol Theater on Main Street, but Goodspeed must raise another $20 million to cover the cost of building administrative offices and a production center on an additional parcel the city is donating nearby.
 The Goodspeed company will use the existing East Haddam theater for one production each summer after the move, but its long-term future is uncertain. The Chevrolet building will be sold.

Long Wharf Theater
 Demolition of the Coliseum sports arena in New Haven, which is expected to take place within the next nine months, will free up six acres of prime downtown real estate; part of that area will become the new home of the 40-year-old Long Wharf Theater. The state has committed $30 million toward construction, and Long Wharf itself is raising another $30 million privately. 
 ''We will own the building; the city will own the land and lease it to us for 99 years at $1 a year,'' said Michael Stotts, Long Wharf's managing director. The theater currently pays the New Haven Food Terminal $250,000 a year in rent for a harbor location that is cut off from downtown New Haven by Amtrak and the Metro-North Railroad.
 ''This will open up new opportunities to become a more prominent member of the community,'' said Mr. Stotts. ''Audiences will be attracted from farther afield.'' 
 The theater was built as an experiment by Newton Schenk, a lawyer and theater buff who carved the space out of the Food Terminal, a commercial food-packing site.
 The new theater will have two performance spaces, as it has now: the Mainstage Newton Schenk Theater and Stage II, but with larger stages, fly space and wing space and more than the existing total of 680 seats. Long Wharf has presented Pulitzer Prize- and Tony Award-winning shows and has sent many productions, playwrights and actors to Broadway and Hollywood.

Poli Palace
 Waterbury does not come to mind as a font of cultural activity, but it has been bitten by the theater bug, and it is restoring the splendid 1922 Poli Palace movie theater on East Main Street and converting it for stage productions. The theater was designed by Charles Lamb and placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1985. It has 2,650 seats and a 5,000-square-foot stage and will have a new orchestra pit for up to 52 musicians and new stage equipment designed for the largest touring Broadway productions.
 Restored raised-plaster relief work and gilding and new cut-glass chandeliers and plush seats will return the building to its original elegance. ''The $30 million renovation has been fully funded by the Connecticut Department of Community and Economic Development,'' said the theater's executive director, Frank Tavera. Tony Bennett is to perform at the reopening on Nov. 12.


GRAPHIC: Photo: CURTAIN UP -- Architects' rendering of the renovated Westport Country Playhouse. Improvements will cost $30 million. (Photo by Ford Farewell Mills & Gatsch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); OPERA (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); HISTORIC SITES (60%) Theater; Theaters (Buildings); Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: Westport Country Playhouse; Goodspeed Opera House (East Haddam, Conn); Long Wharf Theater; Poli Palace (Waterbury, Conn)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



21 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Survival

BYLINE: By MAX WATMAN. 
Max Watman, author of the forthcoming ''Race Day,'' writes about horse racing for The New York Sun.

 BODY:
THE opportunities for New Yorkers to gamble have steadily increased for decades. There's the state lottery, Off-Track Betting, and, of course, casinos nearby in Connecticut and Atlantic City. Each development, each additional venue, has worn away at New York horse racing. 
 Time was, the racetrack was the only game in town. That time is gone. Take Yonkers Raceway, for example. In the late 1950's and early 1960's, 25,000 people a night would go to Yonkers Raceway. These days, it looks more like 250. 
 But things may be about to change. While slot machines are illegal in New York, as of July 7, video lottery terminals are legal, even though they are similar to the old one-armed bandit in that you put in some money and something happens randomly. The usual result is that the machine keeps the money you put in it; the very occasional result is that the machine spits more money back out at you. And Yonkers Raceway plans to install 5,500 of these terminals. The court ruling allowing video lottery terminals, which has been appealed, currently prohibits the use of revenue from the machines to benefit the racing industry, but horsemen and track owners are hopeful that lawmakers will rewrite the legislation to accommodate them. This would be a step in the right direction. 
 John Servis, who rose to celebrity in this summer's Triple Crown races as the trainer of Smarty Jones, said in a press conference that he hoped the attention his colt brought to Pennsylvania racing might help get the slots. He paused, looked down at the ground, and shook his head. It is a shame that racing needs slots to survive, but without new revenue, racing is done for.
 Those who oppose the slots cite the usual arguments against state-sanctioned gambling. They claim it is a false economic improvement, since it adds to the state's coffers by taking money from the state's constituents. They note that it's a regressive tax, meaning that the lower your income the higher your tax rate, not necessarily because poor people gamble more (though that is usually implied pretty soon after the ''regressive tax'' argument is invoked), but because the dollar with which you gamble represents more of your wealth. They say that the money intended for schools (and I've heard estimates that run as high as $400 million per year that will be directed toward New York State's education system) will get stuck in bureaucracy and never do any good. 
 Although I can't disagree with these points, they are old arguments, applicable to the lottery and the OTB parlors. The video lottery terminals are new in an important way: they could save New York racing.
 The Finger Lakes racetrack in Farmington experienced on a small scale what the world of racing is going through. The track was done for. There was little money to maintain the track, and purses were small, which meant the fields were small too. A track running like that eventually has no stalls filled, no horses running and no one at the track. Installing lottery terminals allowed the track to increase purses, and it stopped losing horses to other tracks. Now, Finger Lakes is on the rebound. 
 If I were a horseman, and I was thinking of running at Belmont Park in Elmont next year, I would look seriously at the $500,000 a day that will most likely be offered in purse money at Smarty Jones's home track, Philadelphia Park. Answering John Servis's prayers, recent legislation in Pennsylvania will flood tracks there with money generated from slot machines, and the $500,000 in purse money that Philly Park is likely to offer puts it right in the running with the best tracks in America. It is also much cheaper to rent a house and stable a horse there than it is in New York. Can we rely on the nostalgia of horsemen to attract folks to our tracks? Can we assume that because Belmont is somehow ''classier'' than Philly Park we'll fill the stables and the starting gates? No. 
 Video lottery terminals at Yonkers would allow for some sorely needed maintenance, and the purses would probably triple to $150,000 a night. Bigger purses mean better horses, better horses mean better racing. Better racing means racing stays in New York. 
 Timothy Rooney, president of Yonkers Raceway, will probably sell the track if he isn't allowed to install video lottery terminals. And that would be a sad loss. Horse racing in New York is steeped in tradition. From 1907 to 1940, thoroughbreds raced at Yonkers; Seabiscuit ran there. In 1943, the sulkies returned and harness racing's marquee event, the Hambletonian, was run there. It was won by Volo Song, with the best driver of the age, Ben White, at the controls. 
 But more than historic preservation is at stake: Horseracing employs about 30,000 people throughout New York. Thoroughbred breeding in New York promotes green space and works to keep agriculture viable. 
 Between 1975 and 1998, gamblers were given more opportunities to bet. A University of Chicago gambling study found that while the number of people who admitted to gambling once in their lives had risen during that time, to 86 percent from 68 percent, the number of people who reported having gambled within the past year rose only two percentage points, to 63 percent from 61 percent. Gambling opportunities, it seems, have outpaced the increase in gambling. Or put another way: increased availability does not necessarily increase the number of gamblers. 
 There shouldn't be a slot machine at every subway stop, any more than there should be a cigarette machine on every corner, but putting the video lottery terminals at racetracks is a way to limit them. As long as some of the revenue goes to the track and to horsemen, a distinguished tradition and a wonderful sport will be resuscitated and maintained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); HORSE RACING (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (78%); LITIGATION (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Horse Racing; Gambling; Computer and Video Games; Law and Legislation; Lotteries

PERSON: Max Watman

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



22 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Starving the Yonkers Schools

 BODY:
It would be tempting to dismiss the loud noises coming from Yonkers, in the latest flare-up of its never-ending school crisis, as just another ruckus from the troubled family up the block.
 But this domestic dispute is a bad one, and the people crying loudest -- long-suffering teachers and parents in the 27,000-pupil system -- deserve attention, even though their complaining is a chronic condition and the crisis behind it a cruel fabrication.
 Yonkers has a $50 million hole in its $389 million school budget. To try to shame Albany into closing it with new state aid, the city has pleaded poverty and pre-emptively gutted school spending, over the ferocious objections of parents and teachers. Layoff notices for hundreds of employees -- teachers, librarians, guidance counselors, safety officers and others -- have gone out in the last two weeks. Drastic cuts are planned in sports and other after-school programs. In a city that gives nearly 200 officials the 24-hour use of leased cars, including fully loaded S.U.V.'s, with free gas from city pumps, 3,500 children will no longer be able to take the bus to school. 
 Yonkers portrays itself as the agonized victim of Albany's indifference, and its theatrical austerity binge as the inevitable consequence of inadequate state aid. Stop us, the city says, before we brutalize these children again. 
 It's a tangled situation, but it's easy to identify the main bad actors. Start with Mayor Philip A. Amicone, whose refusal to be realistic and honest on city budgeting amounts to a case of gross civic negligence. Running a school system takes money, and the reasonable way to get more of it is to raise city taxes, cut city spending and shift more city revenue to the schools. This Mr. Amicone refuses to do. Yonkers's contribution to its school budget has remained flat, at about $135 million a year, even as the school system heads toward a financial cliff: the end, next school year, of a series of multimillion-dollar payouts from the state as part of an agreement that settled a historic desegregation lawsuit and ended federal oversight of city schools. Mr. Amicone's budget brinkmanship seeks to keep this cash pipeline open indefinitely, and the municipal side of his government happily in the black. 
 If there is any lingering doubt that Yonkers is starving its schools, consider this: State Senator Nicholas A. Spano and Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky accused the Amicone administration last month of using budget trickery to rob the schools of a hard-won financial windfall. The legislators said they had helped win passage of a pension reform bill that would save Yonkers $15.7 million, a sum they assumed the city would apply to its worst budget problem: a school system $50 million in the red. Instead, they learned that the Amicone administration had already slipped the anticipated money into the proposed city budget, applying it to reduced city spending and giving nothing to the schools.
 ''This kind of gimmickry makes it impossible to trust them,'' Mr. Brodsky said. 
 It also has prompted State Senate and Assembly committees to start scrutinizing the city's budget and spending practices for irregularities -- a welcome move. Mr. Spano and Mr. Brodsky have also asked the state comptroller to step in, to try to pin down Mr. Amicone's slippery budget numbers.
 It's not as if anyone had reason to doubt the city's warped priorities. In a city of 200,000 people with a school system on life support, what do the first deputy mayor, second deputy mayor and several ''special assistants to the mayor'' (Robert Ferrito, the school board president, is one) do to deserve six-figure salaries? And what about those S.U.V.'s? This municipal embarrassment, uncovered by The Journal News, prompted the recent announcement by the public works commissioner (who drives a city-leased Lincoln Navigator) that the city would economize on 10 S.U.V. leases by trading Mountaineers for slightly cheaper Trailblazers. This is not a comfort. Why not give the mayor a used Honda Civic, and lesser officials bus passes? Free bus rides are still more than those thousands of schoolchildren will get next year.
 Many others share blame, like the school superintendent, Angelo Petrone, who, appallingly, echoes the mayor's line that Yonkers schoolchildren deserve not a penny more from Yonkers taxpayers. So do the mayor-appointed bobbleheads on the school board, led by Mr. Ferrito, who voted unanimously last month to impose cuts they weepingly deplored -- even before Albany and Yonkers itself had passed budget plans. And there is the Yonkers City Council, where a veto-proof majority of mayoral allies has long stood in the way of more equitable spending.
 Who is left to stand up for children? The teachers and parents who have not yet moved away in disgust. That emotion overflowed at a recent school board meeting, where speakers begged the board not to play politics with the schools. Mr. Petrone was absent. His office said he was on vacation. 
 Amid all this angst comes a new report from the external review panel set up to monitor Yonkers's compliance with the 2002 settlement to integrate its schools. While its members take note of the system's fundamental soundness, they express tactful chagrin at the social and political dynamic that allows the schools to be so abused by Mr. Amicone, whose political base does not include the black and Hispanic voters whose children make up 80 percent of public-school enrollment. 
 ''Fiscal conditions in Yonkers,'' they write, ''along with unchanged patterns of city investment in the Yonkers Public Schools since 2000-2001 and through the settlement agreement year, which began in 2001-2002, combine to suggest to some a lack of commitment by city leadership elected mostly by a population essentially disconnected from the Yonkers Public Schools, except as a tax-bearing entity.''
 Unless or until Mr. Amicone gets religion, or a control board steps in to make tough decisions that the mayor will not, or the school system finally collapses from budget cuts and an exodus of disillusioned teachers and parents, or -- this is the Amicone plan -- the skies rain manna from Albany and from video-lottery terminals at Yonkers Raceway, the people who truly care about Yonkers and its children will have to continue their weary battle.
 Exhausting though it may be, the committed citizens of Yonkers need to keep up the pressure, to hold their representatives accountable for starving the schools, as loudly and as often as necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (77%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (67%); LITIGATION (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Philip (Mayor) Amicone; Angelo Petrone; Robert Ferrito

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



23 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Freedom, Revisited

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER. 
BRUCE WEBER is an arts reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
''I GUESS the first thing,'' said Spencer R. Crew, ''is 'Why Cincinnati?'''
 Dr. Crew, executive director of the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, is right. With a recent history that has left the city with a reputation for strident conservatism and racial tension, this is perhaps not the first place you'd think of for a $110-million museum focused on the Underground Railroad. That remarkable network of abolitionists and other people of good will, black and white, who helped slaves escape to freedom, was once described by Andrew Young, the former mayor of Atlanta and American ambassador the United Nations, as ''the world's first human rights movement.''
 But here it is, in Cincinnati, a three-pavilion structure situated dramatically on the north bank of the Ohio River between two professional sports stadiums and, with the office towers of downtown rising on a hillside behind it, literally at the foot of the city. 
 Part museum, part interactive learning center, part civil rights theme park, the new institution -- known officially as the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center -- is a kind of secular church of tolerance. 
 And Dr. Crew, who is its executive director, can look out of his office window at the John A. Roebling Suspension Bridge (completed just after the Civil War and named for the designer, who used it as a trial run for the Brooklyn Bridge) and across the river to Covington, Ky. 
 On Tuesday, when the center is to open to the public for the first time (the official opening ceremonies will be Aug. 23), it's a view that visitors will also see, allowing them to ponder the fact that, a century and a half ago, they would have been looking at the divide between free state and slave state: the Ohio as River Jordan. 
 ''Our location has a lot to do with symbolism,'' Dr. Crew said. ''In 1850, Cincinnati had the third-largest African-American population of any city in the country. People looking for freedom could look across the river, and once they got here could melt into the population and not be recaptured by those who were pursuing them.''
 The term Underground Railroad was first used in the 1830's. The antislavery network succeeded in conducting more than 100,000 runaways to safety, many of them to Canada. 
 The center is not a slavery museum, although in its most conventional gallery, it tells the history of slavery in America from pre-Revolutionary War days to the Civil War, with artifacts and dioramas. But it's not heavy on acquisitions; its collections are made up of just 200 items, including historical artifacts and commissioned artworks. There will also be a scholarly archive. 
 The most compelling exhibit is an actual slave pen dating from the early 19th century, a wooden jail where men and women were chained and confined by a slave dealer. The pen was preserved inside a tobacco barn in a soybean field near Germantown, Ky., about 50 miles southeast, and donated by the current owner of the land, a contractor and engineer, Raymond Evers.
 Visitors entering the bare, well-scrubbed pen, now standing inside the museum's central, four-story pavilion, may well feel a chill; it's the same sort of feeling that Carl B. Westmoreland, the center's senior researcher, described among the people who lived near the barn and knew about the pen's existence.
 ''Everybody knew, 'You don't mess with that.'''
 The new structure is made up of three pavilions, all square-based cylinders, with the five-story central silo connected by walkways to the three-story wings. The interior is high-ceilinged and spacious. And its exhibits are designed to be welcoming to all ages, with one gallery geared to young children, overflowing with simple interactive elements. For example, visitors can climb inside a wooden box, built to the exact dimensions of the crate employed by Henry Brown, the escaped slave known as Box, who mailed himself from Virginia to Pennsylvania and freedom.
 A15-minute, three-part animated film -- one part an abstract, illustrative dance on the theme of ''unfreedom,'' the second a profile of a slave woman who takes care of the master's house, and the third the story of a successful slave escape -- serves as an introduction to museum visitors.
 Another 15-minute film, this one with actors on an outdoor set, was commissioned from the director Julie Dash (whose work includes ''Daughters of the Dust'' and ''The Rosa Parks Story''). It is a fictional account of a young woman's escape across the river from Kentucky to the town of Ripley, Ohio, where she is pursued by her owner but protected by an Underground Railroad family. The film is introduced by Oprah Winfrey, who gave the center $1 million. It is presented in ''an environmental theater,'' with the audience on wooden benches surrounded by trees, a star-lighted night sky on the ceiling and a soundtrack of night sounds. ''The runaway experience was basically a nighttime, outdoor experience,'' said Rita Organ, the director of exhibits and collections. ''We wanted to give people a sense of the danger of running away.''
 This appeal to the emotions of visitors may well be the most controversial element of the center, which has drawn opposition from some historians and advocates for a more conventional museum and a more unflinching documentation of the horrors of slavery and its aftermath. The subject of lynching, for example, is addressed only superficially in the children's wing, where a wall painting depicts the image of a lynching as part of an impressionistic portrayal of race relations in the years after the Civil War. And the Hall of Everyday Freedom Heroes, a series of interactive exhibits with touch screens that allow visitors to view brief video biographies of historical and contemporary figures of all ethnicities from Pablo Casals to Muhammad Ali, includes one of Ida B. Wells, the journalist and crusader against lynching. 
 It is a calculated approach, tailored to an institution with a mission -- to promote the kind of awareness and activism that characterized abolitionists and others who sheltered and otherwise aided runaway slaves.
 ''We have a point of view,'' Dr. Crew said. ''We're a museum of conscience.''
 On the way out, visitors will be exhorted to take action with the message, illuminated on the floor, ''If not you, then who? If not now, then when?'' And the center will also provide seminars and discussions about the exhibits and the issues they raise led by counselors and psychologists.
 The museum trustees, keenly aware that they would face accusations of whitewashing history if the center seemed too complacent, also understood that too stringent an approach might be polarizing, sending a message of hostility and bitterness. As one trustee, Consuelo W. Harris, put it: ''We wanted to make sure we were not being accusatory of all whites.''
 The result, the museum's founders hope, is a place where issues of freedom and tolerance can be confronted in a spirit of good will. It is a lofty ideal with some financial motivation: the center is counting on 250,000 visitors annually. It has already attracted support from many celebrities including Danny Glover, Angela Bassett, Vanessa Williams, Elie Wiesel and Jack Kemp as well as corporate sponsors like Coca-Cola, Procter and Gamble, Ford and Boeing. So far $102 million has been raised, 60 percent of it coming from private donations and the rest in federal, state and county government support. 
 ''I see the Freedom Center as coming to grips with these difficult things in an almost subliminal way,'' said Nathaniel R. Jones, a retired United States Appeals Court judge who is the center's co-chairman. ''The whole concept is how to help people on a contemporary basis face the problems they now face.''
 For all its symbolism, the location of the center does have its incongruous aspect; the building, designed by Walter Blackburn, an Indianapolis architect who was the grandson of slaves and who died in 2000, is sandwiched between the Great American Ballpark, home of the Reds, the city's baseball team, and Paul Brown Stadium, where Bengals play their National Football League games. There are plans to further develop the waterfront. Although the area is now distinct from the rest of the city, like an island off the coast of downtown, the uphill walk to Fountain Square, the unofficial city center, is not difficult. Ideally, the center will help revitalize the downtown area, which is sleepy but not entirely asleep. There is a small theater district, and the Contemporary Arts Center, in a highly praised new building designed by Zaha Hadid, (now featuring a retrospective of the San Francisco artist Paul Kos) as well as a handful of lively restaurants and bars. That's another criticism that has been leveled at the project: is it an engine for redevelopment rather than a cultural institution? 
 Groundbreaking took place in June 2002, but in fact, the site has been the subject of debate almost since the idea for the center popped into the mind of Robert C. Harrod a decade ago, with doubts expressed about the center's long-term potential for pulling in the quarter-million annual visitors that would make it an economic boon to the city. Mr. Harrod, the executive director of the regional chapter of the National Conference of Community and Justice, an anti-bias organization better known by its previous name, the National Conference of Christians and Jews, was motivated by frustration with Cincinnati's reputation for intolerance. 
 It was here that the police arrested Dennis Barrie, director of the Contemporary Arts Center, on obscenity charges when he exhibited the homoerotically explicit photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe in 1990. It was the owner of the Cincinnati Reds, Marge Schott, who in the 1990's referred to two black players with a racial slur and made admiring public statements about Hitler. It was in Fountain Square that the Ku Klux Klan often displayed a cross during the Christmas holidays, a practice the City Council did not halt until 2002. And it is in Cincinnati that 15 black men, including an unarmed teen-ager fleeing arrest, died in confrontations with the police between 1996 and 2001. 
 Mr. Harrod said he came up with the idea for the center in late 1993, when he was mulling options for celebrating the 50th anniversary of his organization's presence in Cincinnati. He wanted to give the city a gift, he said, and a memorial to the Underground Railroad struck him as especially appropriate. The city was, after all, not only an important way station for runaway slaves; it was also the home, after 1847, of Levi Coffin, the abolitionist sometimes called the president of the Underground Railroad, who helped hundreds of slaves escape. 
 It was also in Cincinnati that Margaret Garner, an escaped slave, killed her baby daughter in 1856 when they were recaptured, rather than see her raised in bondage. That event, a spectacularly compelling real-life melodrama for the nation at the time, was revived by the novelist Toni Morrison in ''Beloved,'' in 1988.
 ''The idea of an Underground Railroad museum made sense as a gift,'' Mr. Harrod said, ''because it was true to the mission of our organization, which is fighting bias and racism.''
 He and many others in the city, he said, were deeply frustrated by the national publicity that made Cincinnati appear backward. ''The community itself is not perfect,'' he said, but the image was unfair to the majority of the city's residents, ''who manage to acquit themselves pretty well.''
 Mr. Harrod expresses confidence that the center will ''use history to improve race relations.''
 ''We're mindful that we've made a distinct set of choices,'' he said. ''But I think it took courage to make this commitment. It takes courage to place a monument to racial harmony and diversity at the doorstep to your city. We had the nerve to do that.''
 The Freedom Center is at 50 East Freedom Way; (513) 333-7500; on the Web at www.freedomcenter.org.
 It is open 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday to Sunday. Closed Mondays. Admission is $12.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A sculpture of a runaway slave, still manacled, at the Freedom Center. Spencer R. Crew, the center's executive director. (Photographs by Gerard Gaskins for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 A multimedia exhibit at the center. The Roebling Bridge, Paul Brown Stadium (beyond the center's walls) and one of the painted washboards in the center's art collection. (Photographs by Gerard Gaskins for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (89%); SLAVERY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HISTORY (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%) Travel and Vacations; Slavery

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%) National Underground Railroad Freedom Center (Cincinnati, Ohio) 

PERSON: Bruce Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Cincinnati (Ohio); Ohio

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



24 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Minimum Wage

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Luckily, state legislators didn't follow Richard V. Burkhauser's advice (''Making More Pays Less,'' Op-Ed, July 18), and instead voted to raise New York's minimum wage to $7.15.
 New York's minimum wage increase helps those who most need it. The bottom 40 percent of New York households, which earn 15 percent of the total wages, will receive 58 percent of the benefit from an increase.
 Past experience proves minimum wage increases don't lower employment among low-income families. The Fiscal Policy Institute compared states with different minimum wage rates and found that employment grew as much or faster in states with minimum wages above the federal level than in those at the federal level.
 And, before the federal minimum wage increases in the 1990's, employers made dire predictions of job loss. Studies have shown the predictions didn't come true then, and there's no reason to think they will now.

Amy Chasanov
Washington

The writer is deputy director of policy, Economic Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); FAMILY (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); DISMISSALS (69%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: Richard V Burkhauser; Amy Chasanov

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



25 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Raising Minimum Wage

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Luckily, state legislators didn't follow Richard V. Burkhauser's advice (''Making More Pays Less,'' Op-Ed, July 18), and instead voted to raise New York's minimum wage to $7.15.
 New York's minimum wage increase helps those who most need it. The bottom 40 percent of New York households, which earn 15 percent of the total wages, will receive 58 percent of the benefit from an increase.
 Past experience proves minimum wage increases don't lower employment among low-income families. The Fiscal Policy Institute compared states with different minimum wage rates and found that employment grew as much or faster in states with minimum wages above the federal level than in those at the federal level.
 And, before the federal minimum wage increases in the 1990's, employers made dire predictions of job loss. Studies have shown the predictions didn't come true then, and there's no reason to think they will now.

Amy Chasanov
Washington

The writer is deputy director of policy, Economic Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); FAMILY (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); DISMISSALS (69%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: Amy Chasanov; Richard V Burkhauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



26 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Sure Know How to Live

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Europe enjoys one of the world's most prosperous economies while still managing to balance the workweek and leisure time, and yet the critics aren't satisfied. 
 Europeans don't live at their jobs, and with good reason. In places like France and Italy, people still appreciate the simple things in life: a beautiful sunset, a walk in the park, a good cup of coffee. Europeans have the time to watch their children grow up, witness the leaves on a tree change color in the fall and sit down to some good conversation over a home-cooked meal.
 Instead of criticizing the Europeans for an average growth rate of only 2 percent as opposed to the United States' full 3 percent, we should be applauding the amazing equilibrium they've so skillfully perfected. If you ask me, it is the Europeans who are truly living the ''American dream.''

Heather Hickox
Miami, July 29, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



27 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Sure Know How to Live

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The United States' economic dominance over Western Europe cannot be attributed solely to a stronger work ethic of different priorities. The United States is barely even comparable to Europe in that it is a sovereign nation made up of many unified states as opposed to a consortium of countries with strong economic and political ties.
 Americans will keep working longer hours and increasing their property, Europeans will continue living leisurely and spending money on intangibles, and the United States will be economically mightier than Europe. Unity is the key here. The only way that Europe can fiscally overtake America is to unite under a common constitution, which doesn't seem to be too far off.

Franklin Henderson
Durham, N.C., July 29, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



28 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: The Rich Rewards Of Capitalism

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Why aren't these executives called oligarchs, as is done in Russia? These United States executives with all the money seem to play a major role in both the Republican and Democratic parties. 
 Perhaps you could compare figures in the United States to those in Russia: 36 Russian billionaires control assets equal to a quarter of that nation's gross domestic product, according to Forbes Russia. How would you make a comparison with the concentration of financial power in the United States? Or, at the least, what would it take to define an American oligarch?

Robert Hough Somers
Berkeley, Calif., July 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); POLITICS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (83%); DIVESTITURES (59%) Medicine and Health; United States Politics and Government; Bonuses; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: Anthem Inc; Wellpoint Health Networks Inc

PERSON: Robert Hough Somers

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



29 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: IN THE COURTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: STATE BUDGET TROUBLE

BYLINE: NYT

 BODY:
The State Supreme Court ruled on Monday that beginning next year, the state cannot borrow money to balance the budget as it did this year. By allowing Governor McGreevey to proceed with $1.9 billion in borrowing for operating expenses in the current fiscal year, which began July 1, the court averted a scramble for revenue to replace it. 
The borrowed money accounts for nearly 7 percent of the $28 billion budget. Within days of the ruling, three credit-rating agencies, Fitch Ratings, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, lowered their ratings of New Jersey bonds. Standard & Poor's and Fitch said that this year's budget reflected a continuing failure of fiscal discipline and that the budget would be even harder to balance next year, when the state cannot resort to borrowing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); VERDICTS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Bonds; Decisions and Verdicts; Suits and Litigation; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Fitch Ratings; Standard & Poor's Corp; Moody's Investors Service Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



30 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: EDUCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: TUITION CLIMBS

BYLINE: By Jessica Bruder

 BODY:
Tuition for the coming school year will climb 4.8 percent to 10.8 percent at New Jersey's four-year colleges and universities, according to a survey by The Star-Ledger. 
The rates are less steep than those of recent years, the newspaper said in a report on Monday, because of an improving economy and an 8 percent cap on tuition increases at public colleges imposed by the new state budget. In the state, this year's annual tuition costs will range from $4,665 at some public colleges to nearly $30,000 at private institutions. Jessica Bruder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGETS (84%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (83%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition

PERSON: Jessica Bruder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



31 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; The Week Ahead; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE ECONOMY

BYLINE: By Eduardo Porter

 BODY:
Ever since the Federal Reserve began obsessing over the condition of the labor market last year, job growth has become one of the most important statistics in the economy. 
 July's employment report, due out Friday, is even more important than usual. For two reasons. First, job growth slowed dramatically in June. Then, last Friday, the government reported a sharp drop in consumer spending that put the brakes on the economic expansion in the second quarter. 
 So this Friday's report will either confirm what most forecasters want to believe -- that the spring slowdown was just a temporary wobble and America is back on the growth path -- or foreshadow a more deeply troubled economy. Eduardo Porter


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



32 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; FOR RENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Security Deposits Caught in a Squeeze

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
A banking squeeze is causing added tension between some landlords and tenants these days. Interest rates on many of the accounts holding apartment security deposits have slipped below the 1 percent that landlords are allowed to take as an administration fee.
 The question now is whether landlords can dip into the principal of the security accounts to get the full 1 percent fee they are allowed by law. Legal opinions vary. 
 ''We have received a handful of inquiries from tenants concerning payment of interest on their security deposits,'' said Marcia Hirsch, general counsel to the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which oversees rent regulation. 
 ''This is because interest rates are still low. Tenants are asking us what they should be doing about it,'' she said.
 Ms. Hirsch said her office would not take a position on whether landlords can go beyond the interest on a security account to get their fee. 
 ''We refer tenants to the attorney general's office, but also to their legislators, because these issues require a change in the statute itself,'' she said.
 Currently, under section 7-103 of the New York State General Obligations Law, a landlord must place security deposits into an interest-bearing account when tenants are in rent-regulated apartments or if the building contains six or more units. The law says the interest earned on the account belongs to the tenant. But the law also lets landlords collect a fee equal to 1 percent of the total amount on deposit each year.
 For years, rates have been sufficient to allow the landlord to take the 1 percent fee and still leave some interest for the tenant. But these days, despite a recent increase in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve, the rates on many bank accounts remain below 1 percent. What is a landlord allowed to do?
 Sherwin Belkin, a Manhattan lawyer who represents landlords, took a somewhat surprising position. 
 ''My reading of the statute is that the 1 percent fee comes out of the interest earned, not out of the principal,'' Mr. Belkin said. ''Therefore, if the interest earned is less than 1 percent, the owner cannot invade the principal, which he only holds in trust for the tenant, in order to make up the differential.''
 Mr. Belkin, of the firm Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman, continued: ''The statute repeatedly refers to the principal deposited by the tenant as being the tenant's property, and only being held in trust by the landlord. And it repeatedly cautions landlords against improperly co-mingling or invading the principal.''
 David Ng, a tenant lawyer with the firm Karlsson & Ng, sees some degree of ambiguity and lack of foresight in the law.
 ''When they enacted the statute, I don't think they contemplated interest rates being as low as they are today,'' Mr. Ng said. ''The statute says the landlord is entitled to 1 percent as the administrative and custodial expense. In my opinion, under that statute, the landlord would be entitled to 1 percent even if the interest generated is less than 1 percent. However, it's also my opinion that the landlord cannot invade the principal itself to collect the difference between the 1 percent and whatever percentage interest is being generated by the principal.''
 And as a practical matter, Mr. Ng added, ''I don't believe it's in the landlord's best interest to sue for this difference since the cost of attorney's fees will well exceed'' the amount that could be recovered.
 Christine Pritchard, a spokeswoman for New York State's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said, ''Any attempt to charge the administrative fee against the principal was not contemplated by the Legislature and certainly is not within the spirit of the law.'' 
 She urged consumers with complaints to contact the attorney general's office. 
 But Mr. Spitzer sees a need for changing the law, Ms. Pritchard added. ''He has a legislative proposal that would set the landlord's administrative fee at 20 percent of the earned interest, up to a maximum of 1 percent of the total amount of the deposit,'' she said.
 The bill, which has passed the Assembly, specifically ties the landlord's fee to the interest and not the principal. ''The landlord could get 20 percent of the interest earned each year,'' Ms. Pritchard said. ''The idea is to encourage landlords to seek a higher interest account, so both the landlord and the tenant would earn more.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Schildbach) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); LAWYERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%) Housing; Interest Rates; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing 

COMPANY: BELKIN BURDEN WENIG & GOLDMAN LLP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



33 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Before You Buy Into That I.P.O., Search 'Lemmings'

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
STEVEN A. BALLMER, the chief executive of Microsoft, recently sent a sly but unmistakable message to the executives at Google. Think of it as a sobering peek into the future, written by the leader of a longtime Wall Street star for the benefit of its latest boy wonder. 
 There are ''soon-to-be-public companies,'' Mr. Ballmer wrote last month in his annual e-mail message taking measure of his company and the technology industry, ''that will deal, as we have, with flat stock price for a number of years while they build adequate profits'' to justify their stock price. 
 Take it from a behemoth now suffering from middle-age aches and pains. The inflated expectations of Wall Street might seem a validation of your hard work and potential, Microsoft's chief executive seemed to be saying, but over time it will also be a burden -- maybe even a curse. 
 Mr. Ballmer's message might well have been directed, too, at all those investors now contemplating whether they should pay an extraordinarily high premium to own a small piece of Google, the world's most popular Internet search engine, when it finally goes public, probably in the middle of this month. According to a document it filed last Monday with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Google expects to be worth $29 billion to $36 billion the day it goes public. That would instantly give this company, hatched in the late 1990's, a market value greater than that of Ford Motor, Starbucks, Federal Express or Lockheed Martin, though Google generates a small fraction of the revenues these brand-name giants do.
 ''If an investor asked me, 'Should I bid on this stock?''' said David Menlow, the president of the IPO Financial Network, an independent research firm, ''I would respond with an unqualified 'no.'''
 Yet one man's ''financial train wreck,'' to borrow Mr. Menlow's phrase, is another's rare chance to magically transform a modest stash of cash into a single-stock retirement fund. ''Google might look ridiculously expensive,'' said Michael Moe, the chief executive of ThinkEquity Partners, a research-oriented investment bank specializing in growth industries. ''But Microsoft, Cisco, Qualcomm -- take your pick. All came out with a lot of fanfare and people said they were ridiculously expensive -- and all of them proved a great investment.
 ''This is like making a bet on a thoroughbred,'' he said. ''You're paying a premium.'' 
 Investing in a newly minted stock is always risky. More than 5,000 companies went public between 1989 and 2000, according to Richard J. Peterson, chief market strategist for Thomson First Call. Nearly one-third of those companies are down 50 percent or more since their stock market debut, Mr. Peterson said -- if they are even still in business. Only one-fifth are worth at least twice their opening day price.
 Moreover, this year has been a terrible one for technology companies new to the stock market. Two dozen technology-related companies have gone public in 2004, Mr. Peterson said; collectively they were down more than 10 percent as of Friday's stock market close. That compares with a gain of about 1 percent in the share price for the nontechnology companies that have gone public this year
 Google is hardly just another company seeking to sell shares on the stock market. But, then, that is already reflected in the share price, which is expected to be the highest ever for an initial public offering. 
 In Monday's filing, Google said it expected its shares to sell for $108 to $135 each. Even assuming that Google sells initially for $108 per share, that would make the company worth 150 times its last four quarters of earnings. By contrast, its Internet rival, Yahoo, is valued at 105 times earnings, and Microsoft 39 times earnings.
 Still, Barry Randall, a mutual fund manager, is among those thinking about taking the plunge. The company's balance sheets, at least at quick glance, he said, are compelling. According to Google's most recent filing, it has a gross profit margin ''in the high 80 percent range,'' said Mr. Randall, who runs the First American Technology Fund, which specializes in technology stocks. 
 ''Your average tech stock,'' he said, ''has gross margins of 40 percent.'' 
 Still, it seems legitimate to ask if any company, no matter how extraordinary, should trade at such sky-high multiples. As even Google acknowledges in its S.E.C. filings, competitors threaten its dominance in search, from Yahoo and Microsoft to any number of lesser-known rivals. 
 Moreover, Google can maintain its torrid rate of growth -- which it must do to justify so extravagant a stock market valuation -- only if it increases traffic on its site. That is no easy task given that it's already the default search engine for much of the world. (That explains recent initiatives like Gmail, a free e-mail service from Google that challenges offerings by Yahoo and Microsoft.)
 ''The company's valuation is clearly based more on the hype factor than business fundamentals,'' said Ashok Kumar, a technology analyst at Raymond James & Company. Unlike many of the Internet companies that came to life at the end of the last decade, Google turns a sizable profit ($79 million in the second quarter of 2004, up 147 percent from a year earlier). But Mr. Kumar nonetheless concluded that its pricing ''harkens back to the late 90's boom.''
 As many people learned the hard way after the bubble burst in 2000, the stock market value of a technology company is not based as much on its intrinsic worth as on an assessment of its future earning power. How one answers when asked to consider the wisdom of investing in Google, then, seems to say as much about that individual's faith in the technology sector generally as about his or her view of Google. 
 ''Basically we're looking at your classic bull versus bear tussle over Google for a long time to come,'' Mr. Moe said. 
 Mr. Moe is among those who say they believe the technology sector is undervalued. Then there is Fred Hickey, editor of The High-Tech Strategist in Nashua, N.H., and a longtime technology stock analyst who stands out as perhaps the most bearish of them all. To him, the steep price Google has assigned itself is proof that the stock market has not shaken off the excesses of the bubble. 
 ''Look at history,'' Mr. Hickey said. ''There's never been valuations of 100 times revenues, except during this bubble.''
 Mr. Hickey concedes that there is a certain logic to Google's price. The pricing of a stock on Wall Street is not unlike that of the real estate market, where the worth of a property is set largely by recent sales prices of like properties, or ''comps.'' Yahoo, the other large company that sells advertising tied to Internet searches, seems to be everyone's favorite comp to justify Google's valuation. ''Everyone is playing the 'relative-to' game,'' Mr. Hickey said. ''Google has a reasonable valuation if you assume its fellow Internet stocks, like Yahoo, are reasonably priced. The problem is, as we saw in March 2000, that game works -- but only for a while.'' 
 Mr. Kumar is not nearly as dour in his assessment of technology's future as Mr. Hickey, but he, too, says he is inclined to believe that technology sector valuations are generally too high. And he is hardly alone in that assessment, he said. 
 ''Most portfolio managers are underweighting technology,'' Mr. Kumar said, ''because they don't feel the reward of the upside is commensurate with the downside risk.'' Technology companies account for roughly 16 percent of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, yet by his calculations, technology stocks account for between 13 and 14 percent of the overall basket of stocks held by portfolio managers.
 Apparently, Wade Slome, co-manager of the American Century Ultra Fund, a $22 billion growth stock mutual fund, is braver than much of his cohort. He's bullish on Internet stocks, and generally optimistic about the broader technology market. 
 ''I THINK people are a little too pessimistic, given all the uncertainties,'' Mr. Slome said. ''Whether you're talking the election, Iraq, inflation or interest rates, there's so many things for people to worry about.'' 
 It's no surprise, then, that Mr. Slome plans to take a hard look at Google. Whether he will actually make a bid, though, is unclear. Typically, institutional money mangers like him set a stock's opening price in the rarefied world of I.P.O.'s. Google, however, is selling shares to the public in an unconventional Internet-based auction that puts the public on equal footing with the professionals.
 Given all the hype, Mr. Slome said, ''You could really have retail investors take this to levels that are silly.''
 That is what worries Mr. Menlow of the IPO Financial Network. He is convinced that institutional investors will largely shun the Google offering, allowing the wider public to price the deal.
 ''That's dangerous on a hot deal,'' Mr. Menlow said. ''You have to price a deal based on some kind of financial model, not the highest price people are willing to pay in a supercharged environment.'' He emphasized that he was a big fan of the company, but said he believed that an Internet auction would inevitably mean a lot of average people holding overpriced shares of Google. 
 ''I don't want make any disparaging remarks about the individual investors,'' he said, ''but when you entrust the pricing of a company to amateurs, people end up getting hurt.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Google, of Mountain View, Calif., said it expected to be worth $29 billion to $36 billion when it went public. But is it a good deal for investors? There's disagreement about that. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)Chart: ''Win Some, Lose Some''Of the 32 technology companies that went public this year, here are the five whose stock prices declined the most, and the five whose prices increased the most.Change since initial stock priceShanda Interactive Entmnt.: +72.7%Marchex: +44.0Blue Nile: +37.3Blackboard: +32.1TNS: +23.3Average*: -3.1%Xyratex: -34.6Semiconductor Manufacturing Int'l: -38.1Atheros Communications: -48.1Staktek Holdings: -61.7DayStar Technologies: -62.0*Average for 32 companies(Sources by Thomson Financial
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); COINS & COINAGE (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (66%) Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (54%); FORD MOTOR CO (54%); QUALCOMM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); LMT (NYSE) (54%); FORDP (PAR) (54%); F (NYSE) (54%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



34 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; The Way We Live: 8/1/04: Consumed; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Conscience Undercover

BYLINE: By Rob Walker

 BODY:
The easiest way to add meaning (and marketability) to a commodity item of clothing -- T-shirt, sweatshirt, underpants -- is to add a logo. It could be a brand name or even a symbol or set of colors: the Nike swoosh, the logo of the Strokes, the colors of Tommy Hilfiger or just the words Abercrombie & Fitch. Absent such a signifier, the clothing is merely clothing. Or at least that's the general thinking.
 But it doesn't really explain American Apparel, which offers its customers nothing but unlogoed casual wear and now has 2,000 employees cranking out a million garments a week, with sales of $80 million last year. In the past year or so, it has opened 13 retail stores, four of them in New York, and projects that its revenue will nearly double. So what exactly is the American Apparel customer buying? While the garments are simple, the answer is complicated. 
 Founded in 1997, the company at first sold only to the ''imprintables'' trade -- screen printers and others who used its clothing as a canvas for original designs or band logos and so on. The emphasis was on quality of fabric, cut, fit and manufacturing. As it expanded, the company started receiving (and courting) attention for being ''sweatshop free.'' At a time when practically every clothes maker was off-shoring to cut costs, American Apparel made its wares at a downtown Los Angeles factory where the average industrial worker (usually a Latino immigrant) is paid $13 an hour and gets medical benefits. But today the core of American Apparel's pitch isn't quality or social consciousness or logo-escapism. It's youth and sex. 
 ''We make sexy T-shirts for young people,'' summarizes Dov Charney, the 35-year-old company founder. The sex part is certainly apparent in the company's ads. Yes, there are references to quality and ethics in some of them, but generally in small type under a photograph of a half-naked young woman shot in a raw and vaguely decadent style reminiscent of Larry Clark or Nan Goldin. These ads run not in Utne magazine but in The Village Voice and Vice and in more rarified publications like Beautiful/Decay. Decor at the retail outlets includes Penthouse covers from the 1970's and 80's.
 Not surprisingly, American Apparel has been accused of using exploitative soft-core pornography. Charney's view is that it's too simple to say that he is selling sex. He is selling youth culture, to young people. That's what guides everything from the no-logoing to the styles and colors he chooses, from the location of his stores (Echo Park in Los Angeles, the Lower East Side in New York) to those provocative ad images, which he says are not just sexy but ''real.'' The women aren't models; they are people whom Charney has met and in some cases photographed himself. And, in fact, most of his retail customers are young women.
 Meanwhile, many traditional allies of socially conscious business never quite embraced American Apparel; instead, they criticize it for not having a union. Charney has a detailed and vigorous response, which draws on free-market economics and the Magna Carta, as well as taunts aimed at his ''loser academic'' critics. Passionate to the point of mania, he leaves an impression that he might just burst into flames at any moment. Lately, his idiosyncratic lifestyle has received much attention following a curious article in Jane magazine in which the writer vividly described Charney's sex life, onanism included. Even this fits into Charney's view of American Apparel's appeal. ''Young people like honesty,'' he shrugs. 
 Putting the marketing emphasis on youth and sex, he says, doesn't mean he cares less about treating his workers ethically. But he doesn't think trumpeting work conditions will help him compete with multinationals and have stores all over the world, which he sees as more of a victory for socially aware business than unionizing. Charney pulls out a copy of a book called ''The 48 Laws of Power'' and cites No. 13, which suggests that to get what you want you must appeal to the self-interest of others, not their mercy. ''That's the problem with the antisweatshop movement,'' he says, snapping the book closed. ''You're not going to get customers walking into stores by asking for mercy and gratitude. Appeal to people's self-interest.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philippe Lardy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARMENT WORKERS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (78%); FABRICS (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); ETHICS (63%) Apparel; Children and Youth; Labor; Sweatshops

COMPANY: AMERICAN APPAREL INC (92%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: American Apparel

TICKER: APP (NYSE MKT) (92%); ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (92%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (92%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%)

PERSON: DOV CHARNEY (78%) Rob Walker; Dov Charney

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



35 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart, Pro and Con

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Wal-Mars Invades Earth,'' by Barbara Ehrenreich (column, July 25):
 As a Yale-educated woman raised in Manhattan, I've worked in Wal-Mart's San Francisco office for four years. My husband, also Yale-educated, currently works there as well. We are not aliens, nor are we so morally irresponsible that we would be associated with a company that denies workers the biological requirements for human life. 
 The problem with Ms. Ehrenreich's dramatization of Wal-Mart's role in American society is that it fails to take into account the economics of capitalism. 
 In the example of the associate needing to spend an hour's wage on a polo shirt, she implies that the associates' wages should be raised. That would be the ideal, but by increasing the wages of more than a million American employees, the cost of the shirt would rise, too. Is she prepared to tell the American people that they can no longer have a $7 polo shirt? 
 It is not company executives who define Wal-Mart, it is this: that every week millions of Americans find something they need or want at a Wal-Mart store, at a price that empowers them to buy it.

Neylan McBaine
San Francisco, July 26, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); MARS (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



36 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Despite U.S. Penalties, Burmese Junta Refuses to Budge

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: YANGON, Myanmar 

 BODY:
Soon after dawn, hundreds of women streamed toward the garment factories that have provided them with new jobs in this capital's biggest industrial zone. Many came on foot, wearing traditional ankle-length Burmese skirts and simple sandals, cylindrical tin lunch pails glinting in the early light. Some came on creaky 60-year-old buses provided as free transport. 
 In any other nation in Southeast Asia, the scene might be greeted as the healthy sign of a vibrant economy. But this is Myanmar -- the name given Burma by the military government 15 years ago -- and these are factories that the Bush administration had hoped would be suffering, even shut down, with the economic penalties that it slapped on one of the world's most repressive governments last year. 
 The sanctions, which ban all imports from Myanmar to the United States, were renewed in July. They are intended, the administration says, to persuade the government that it should share power with the opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the 1991 Nobel Peace laureate. With a few interludes of freedom, she has been under house arrest for more than a decade. 
 But from many signs around the country, and the buzz of activity around the factory gates in the industrial zone of Hlaing Tharyar here in Yangon, formerly Rangoon, the military government, led by Gen. Than Shwe, a 71-year-old hard-liner, remains firmly entrenched. 
 Proud of its long record of survival under international isolation -- for example, there have been no World Bank loans to Burma since 1987 -- the government has not been budged by the American sanctions, Burmese people say. 
 It has not helped that European nations have applied less stringent sanctions, while Asian countries, in particular China, still trade freely with Myanmar. The country has managed to acquire military hardware from diverse sources, including China, Russia and North Korea.
 One Western diplomat in Myanmar sent home a cable in which he wrote about ''the cockroach economy,'' meaning that the military government would still be standing with the cockroaches after everything else had collapsed. 
 The generals, as the Burmese refer to their leaders, appear to have crafted a straightforward survival strategy. It is based, Burmese and outsiders say, on personal financial enrichment for themselves and political payoffs and cease-fire accords that guarantee peace with Buddhist leaders and otherwise restive ethnic groups. 
 A new class of rich people, mostly the sons and daughters of the military, as well as ethnic Chinese, is allowed to flourish. They are the ones who, in one of the world's most heavily censored societies, sport cellphones tucked into their belts.
 Asked how much his cellphone cost, one businessman gave a local figure that was equivalent to $4,000. Almost everyone else must rely on tattered public telephones arrayed on card tables at street corners, staffed by watchful cashiers.
 Holding companies run by the military are involved in many of the deals that have allowed some scattered patina of modernity -- an international airline with new planes and smartly dressed cabin crews -- and some extravagant follies. A gleaming new international airport replete with gilded pagodas attached to the terminal roof opened in Mandalay, the nation's second largest city, four years ago. The air bridges for big jets and luggage carousels look as though they have never been used. 
 The generals also rely on heavy repression -- the military intelligence service is one of the most pervasive organizations of its kind in the world -- and what some call the passivity of the people in this predominantly Buddhist nation.
 For example, as many as 40,000 people lost their jobs after the sanctions came into effect in July 2003, according to an informal survey in November by the United Nations. But there were no protests, and since then, many of the out-of-work have either gone home to the countryside or turned to the capital's seedy sex trade. Many, however, are finding work at reopened factories. 
 At the Korean-owned WaHongHon factory, which churns out cheap T-shirts, a crowd of women lined up to apply for job openings. A sign on the gate said that machinists and finishers were needed.
 ''The starting salary is 15,000 kyat a month,'' or about $15, one of the women said. She had left a job a few months ago at 25,000 kyat but said she had decided to return to work. ''If you're good on a sewing machine you can get a job anywhere,'' another woman said. 
 These attitudes, borne as much out of the desperation of deep poverty as quiescence, frustrate the educated opponents of thegovernment.
 ''I wish the factory workers had protested -- to the government, to the owners, to anyone,'' said one educated Burmese. ''But they didn't; they just accepted.'' 
 The instruments of the government's control are evident, sometimes obviously, sometimes by inference, wherever one goes, from the urban centers to villages. 
 More than 50 percent of Myanmar's budget is spent on the military, and in the broken-down atmosphere of much of the country, the army's prosperity stands out.
 In Pin U Lain, the new name of the old British hill town known as Maymyo, the nation's two military academies are endowed with well-built modern buildings. Young cadets sauntered around town on their day off in well-pressed uniforms. 
 The privileges of the generals are clear. A golf course in Pin U Lain, with a nearby helipad, is for their exclusive use, for example. 
 In remote areas that are generally off limits to the foreign officials in the capital, the army forces civilians into heavy labor, including backbreaking work building roads under primitive and cruel conditions, according to the International Labor Organization. Commanders whose forces are under pressure from insurgency groups recruit children as soldiers, the organization says.
 In a concession by the government, the labor organization was allowed to open an office in Yangon two years ago to try to reduce forced labor abuses. The government now acknowledges the existence of child soldiers and forced labor, but there seems little political will to prosecute cases, said the organization's liaison officer, Richard Horsey.
 The people receive virtually no services from the government. Education is abysmal. The government's annual health budget is about 24 cents per capita, with only one country, Sierra Leone, spending less, the World Health Organization says.
 In Hsipaw, a town of 200,000, the public hospital was empty and shuttered, and only a few nursing attendants were on duty at the maternity hospital across the street. ''There is no medical service here except a few doctors in private clinics who charge a lot,'' a resident said. 
 In a nearby village, nestled under a canopy of lush jackfruit and tamarind trees, almost all of the wooden houses, many of them built on stilts to permit a flow of air in the muggy climate, were without electricity. One enterprising farmer had fashioned a microhydro plant that furnished electricity to his own family and five neighbors.
 His three children had all finished high school but some families in the village could not afford to send their children to school at all, he said. 
 The Bush administration's sanctions, as well as other international prohibitions, do not rule out assistance to help alleviate some of the poverty. But educated Burmese who oppose the government and manage to get news of the outside world through satellite dishes -- the BBC is available, but not CNN -- often say they have mixed feelings about the American sanctions.
 Some American officials say they are torn about the sanctions, too. One official said it was clear that the new, more rigorous sanctions were not having much effect on the military government and were probably hurting ordinary workers. 
 ''But what are we to do?'' the official asked.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the impact of sanctions on Myanmar gave a misspelled surname in some copies for an International Labor Organization official who said that while the government now acknowledged the existence of abuses like forced labor, it seemed to have little political will to prosecute them. He is Richard Horsey, not Horsy.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Burmese women are shown stitching sports clothing at the time the United States imposed sanctions against imports from Myanmar last year. Many of the women, who earned about 50 cents a day, lost their jobs. (Photo by Paula Bronstein/Getty Images)
Gen. Than Shwe, the Burmese military ruler, has so far survived sanctions and kept the opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, below, under house arrest. (Photo by Bernama/Agence France-Presse)
 (Photo by David Longstreath/Associated Press)Map of Myanmar highlighting Yangon: Garment factories are still busy in Yangon, the Burmese capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CENSORSHIP (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ETHNICITY (67%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); HOUSE ARREST (52%); HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); RELIGION (50%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: THAN SHWE (75%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



37 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: How Does It Feel in the Middle?

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: Wisconsin Dells, Wis. 

 BODY:
MORE than in any recent presidential election, the critical economic issue this year boils down to whether middle-income people think they are being squeezed.
 President Bush, having weathered a recession and a prolonged slump in jobs, passionately argues that they are not. His tax cuts, he says, are giving middle-income families as well as the rich more money to spend and fueling a recovery that is finally producing more jobs.
 Senator John Kerry, who accepted the Democratic nomination on Thursday, just as passionately argues that working families are being left behind. Their incomes, he says, are failing to keep up with soaring costs for health care, college tuition and other needs. 
 Who is right? The answer is far from clear, but a visit to Wisconsin Dells, a sprawling collection of water parks and roller coasters about 60 miles north of Madison, offers some clues. Many people here felt that their incomes were not keeping up with costs anymore, and there was a gnawing sense among some that the rich were getting richer. At the same time, most people expressed guarded confidence that job opportunities would improve. 
 ''I think I'm much better off than I was five years ago,'' said Kristi Ellison, a 40-year-old nurse from Fayetteville, N.C. She said that she and her husband, Richard, a military surgeon, own two speedboats and recently bought a new house and property to build on in their retirement. ''I'm in the most expensive house I've ever owned,'' she said. She added that she can choose to work as much or as little as she wants to supplement the family income. Others, however, said they plainly felt a middle-class squeeze, the idea at the heart of the economic debate between the candidates.
 ''Eight years ago, before we had children, we used to go out to dinner with friends all the time, and we don't do that anymore,'' said Herb Blum, who earns $50,000 a year at a printing company near Chicago and was spending his vacation in a campground here. His wife, Tina, was laid off from her job as a data-entry worker last year, and the two had to pay $2,500 in deductibles and copayments when their son, Nikko, had foot surgery. 
 RISING medical costs are pinching people throughout the heartland, forcing many to do without health insurance altogether. ''I can't afford it,'' Marion Gillespie, a licensed practical nurse from Alton, Ill., said in a telephone interview. Ms. Gillespie, a single mother whose children are now grown, works through a temporary staffing agency that pays up to $25 an hour but does not offer health insurance.
 Yet while some families have pitched tents or parked trailers at campgrounds to save money, others are paying $200 a day and up for rooms at indoor water resorts that offer artificial waterfalls, rivers and sometimes even indoor surfing.
 ''We're still targeting middle-income people, families with $40,000 to $80,000 in income,'' said Joe Eck, director of marketing at the Wilderness Hotel and Golf Resort. ''They figure they can afford it because they don't have to buy tickets for the water park.''
 The mixed picture here coincides with what many economists are observing. Almost three years after the last recession ended, hourly wages have declined in the past year after accounting for inflation. And even though the nation has added 1.5 million jobs since last August, it is still more than one million jobs below the total number of jobs in 2001. At the same time, the adult population has swelled by more than three million people.
 Meanwhile, corporate profits have soared both in absolute numbers and as a share of the total economy. Corporate profits rose by nearly one-third between the first quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004. As a share of the gross domestic product, corporate profits shot up from less than 10 percent to more than 12 percent in the same period, according to estimates by the Commerce Department.
 ''Wages really have lagged,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, an economic forecasting company in Waltham, Mass. ''There is a cyclical component to it, but it is quite a bit more pronounced than in past cycles.''
 The disparity is also widening between middle-income and high-income earners. Adjusted for inflation, wages for middle-income men -- those in the 50th percentile of earnings -- were virtually flat at about $15 an hour between 1980 and 2003, according to a paper that will be published in September by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington. By contrast, wages for high-income men -- those in the 95th percentile of earnings -- climbed by one-third, to $44 an hour in 2003 from $32 an hour in 1980.
 ''It has been going on for a long time,'' said Lawrence Mishel, president of the Economic Policy Institute. ''Middle-wage workers have not done well over the past three decades.''
 David Autor, an associate professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said middle- and lower-income workers enjoyed real gains during the economic boom from 1995 to 2000. But their earnings went flat once again after the recession in 2001, and have yet to start rising.
 ''What's happened in the last few years is that people's earnings have stagnated again, except for those at the top end,'' Professor Autor said. ''It really hasn't been as much of a middle-income squeeze as a middle-income stagnation.''
 The middle-income stagnation is evident among some vacationers here in the Dells, which claims to have the country's biggest indoor water park, the world's biggest go-kart track and the world's tallest ''vertical accelerator ride.''
 Alison Witworth, a nurse visiting from Rochester, Minn., said that after she worked 12-hour shifts she looked after her two small grandchildren so that her daughter could work as a nurse and avoid paying for child care. ''The child-care costs $750 a month, and two children would be $1,500,'' said Ms. Witworth, as she watched one of her grandchildren in a playpen just outside their camper. And even without the cost of child care, she added, her daughter and son-in-law struggle to keep up with their monthly mortgage payments.
 Paul and Gina Butler, cooking breakfast sausages outside their camper about 50 yards away, said they had been struggling with medical costs and disability. The couple, who live in Alton, Ill., both work for Winchester Ammunition, a subsidiary of the Olin Corporation. Until last April, they earned a combined income of $80,000. But Mr. Butler was forced to go on disability leave last August when he developed a muscular disorder that made him weak and dizzy.
 WHILE a union contract allows Mr. Butler to collect disability pay equal to about one-third of his regular salary, he and his wife said they worry that the company will shift production to a different state with lower wage costs. Four years ago, workers went on strike for seven weeks to demand that the company not increase their health care costs. ''That's going to be a big issue when the contract comes due next year,'' said Ms. Butler, ''and they made it clear the last time around that they wanted to cut those costs.''
 Health care costs and health insurance present the clearest case of ''middle-class squeeze,'' as growing numbers of companies decline to offer insurance at all. The Kaiser Family Foundation, in a recent update on its survey of health care benefits, estimated that the percentage of full-time workers who participate in employee health insurance plans has declined to 56 percent in 2003 from 80 percent in 1990. Health care represents one of the sharpest contrasts between the programs outlined by Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Kerry has proposed a plan under which the federal government would help pick up the costs of catastrophic medical care, at an estimated cost of $653 billion over 10 years, and pay for it by repealing Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the top 2 percent of income earners. Mr. Bush's approach is more modest. He would expand the use of tax-free medical savings accounts and create ''association health plans'' that would allow small businesses to participate in larger insurance pools.
 With overall inflation still low and employment rising, national surveys all point to greater optimism among consumers. The University of Michigan concluded that consumer confidence in June was near its highest levels since the economic boom of the 1990's. And last week, the Conference Board reported that consumer expectations in July climbed to the highest level in two years.
 Higher-income professionals in fields like accounting, engineering and architecture are particularly optimistic. ''I think things are getting a lot better,'' said Connie Berry, an accountant who relaxed poolside on Thursday with her husband at the Wilderness resort. ''I just got a raise; my husband has gotten a lot of new clients. I think Bush is doing a great job.''
 The outlook is considerably different for people who are in public-sector jobs. Mark Jung, a school psychologist in Madison, does not worry about losing his job. But he and his wife, Barb, a teacher, decided to postpone retirement, in part because their retirement savings lost about half their value when the stock market bubble popped and because they worry about being able to continue to make ends meet. The state of the economy ''makes you much more conservative,'' said Mr. Jung, who had planned to retire this year but has decided to wait two years. Barb Jung, who had planned to retire last year, waited until this summer.
 For all the frustration about stagnant pay, some people have taken heart that extraordinarily low interest rates let them buy things that once would have been out of reach. Donald Sokalezuk, an accounts-payable supervisor at the University of Pennsylvania, said he used cheap loans to buy a new camper and a new truck. ''I probably have as much debt as I ever had, but I have a lot more stuff,'' he said. He did grumble that health care costs had greatly outpaced any pay increases in recent years.
 Raises may be coming, however. Most economists predict that wages will have to edge upward, as companies reach the point where it makes more sense to accept lower profit margins to keep up with rising demand for their goods and services.
 Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in a Congressional hearing last month that the process might already have begun. Fed officials are hoping that companies absorb the cost of higher wages by letting their profit margins decline, not by passing on price hikes to customers.
 But the longer-term trend may be more intractable. Wages for all but the top income earners have been flat for the past several decades, except for during the economic boom of the 1990's. That trend could be difficult to reverse, regardless of who is sitting in the Oval Office in February.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Herb and Tina Blum and their sons, Nikko, left, and Tony, at a campground in Wisconsin Dells, Wis. For them, the middle-class squeeze is real. They have faced medical bills for Nikko and the loss of one income. (Photo by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Melissa Kent, left, and Thomas and Connie Berry at a water park in Wisconsin Dells, Wis. Mrs. Berry just got a raise and praises President Bush.
Barb and Mark Jung, with their dog Aspen. Mr. Jung postponed his retirement, saying he didn't feel good about the state of the economy. (Photographs by Erol Reyal for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Looking for a Squeeze''A key economic issue in this year's election is whether or not the middle class is being squeezed. Some economists say that as corporate profits have been increasing . . .Corporate profits as a percentage of national incomeGraph tracks corporate profits as a percentage of national income, measured quarterly, since Clinton's presidency and through Bush's presidency (1993-2004).AVG.: 10.3%. . . wages have been declining . . .Real earningsGraph tracks year-over-year change in average hourly earnings, plotted monthly
adjusted seasonally and for inflation since 1993.AVG.: +0.7%. . . and accelerating inflation has made it difficult for middle-income families to keep up with rising prices.InflationGraph tracks year-over-year change in the monthly level of the Consumer Price Index since 1993.AVG.: +2.5%(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CAMPING (88%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (84%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (74%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); WATER PARKS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (57%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) United States Economy; Income; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (69%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wisconsin Dells (Wis)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



38 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Breaking the Silence

BYLINE: By HENRY LOUIS GATES JR.. 
Henry Louis Gates Jr. will be a guest columnist for the Op-Ed page this week. Thomas L. Friedman is on leave until October, writing a book.

 BODY:
''Go into any inner-city neighborhood,'' Barack Obama said in his keynote address to the Democratic National Convention, ''and folks will tell you that government alone can't teach kids to learn. They know that parents have to parent, that children can't achieve unless we raise their expectations and eradicate the slander that says a black youth with a book is acting white.'' In a speech filled with rousing applause lines, it was a line that many black Democratic delegates found especially galvanizing. Not just because they agreed, but because it was a home truth they'd seldom heard a politician say out loud. 
 Why has it been so difficult for black leaders to say such things in public, without being pilloried for ''blaming the victim''? Why the huge flap over Bill Cosby's insistence that black teenagers do their homework, stay in school, master standard English and stop having babies? Any black person who frequents a barbershop or beauty parlor in the inner city knows that Mr. Cosby was only echoing sentiments widely shared in the black community. 
 ''If our people studied calculus like we studied basketball,'' my father, age 91, once remarked as we drove past a packed inner-city basketball court at midnight, ''we'd be running M.I.T.'' When my brother and I were growing up in the 50's, our parents convinced us that the ''blackest'' thing that we could be was a doctor or a lawyer. We admired Hank Aaron and Willie Mays, but our real heroes were people like Thurgood Marshall, Dr. Benjamin Mays and Mary McLeod Bethune.
 Yet in too many black neighborhoods today, academic achievement has actually come to be stigmatized. ''We are just not the same people anymore,'' says the mayor of Memphis, Dr. Willie W. Herenton. ''We are worse off than we were before Brown v. Board,'' says Dr. James Comer, a child psychiatrist at Yale. ''And a large part of the reason for this is that we have abandoned our own black traditional core values, values that sustained us through slavery and Jim Crow segregation.''
 Making it, as Mr. Obama told me, ''requires diligent effort and deferred gratification. Everybody sitting around their kitchen table knows that.''
 ''Americans suffer from anti-intellectualism, starting in the White House,'' Mr. Obama went on. ''Our people can least afford to be anti-intellectual.'' Too many of our children have come to believe that it's easier to become a black professional athlete than a doctor or lawyer. Reality check: according to the 2000 census, there were more than 31,000 black physicians and surgeons, 33,000 black lawyers and 5,000 black dentists. Guess how many black athletes are playing professional basketball, football and baseball combined. About 1,400. In fact, there are more board-certified black cardiologists than there are black professional basketball players. ''We talk about leaving no child behind,'' says Dena Wallerson, a sociologist at Connecticut College. ''The reality is that we are allowing our own children to be left behind.'' Nearly a third of black children are born into poverty. The question is: why?
 Scholars such as my Harvard colleague William Julius Wilson say that the causes of black poverty are both structural and behavioral. Think of structural causes as ''the devil made me do it,'' and behavioral causes as ''the devil is in me.'' Structural causes are faceless systemic forces, like the disappearance of jobs. Behavioral causes are self-destructive life choices and personal habits. To break the conspiracy of silence, we have to address both of these factors.
 ''A lot of us,'' Mr. Obama argues, ''hesitate to discuss these things in public because we think that if we do so it lets the larger society off the hook. We're stuck in an either/or mentality -- that the problem is either societal or it's cultural.''
 It's important to talk about life chances -- about the constricted set of opportunities that poverty brings. But to treat black people as if they're helpless rag dolls swept up and buffeted by vast social trends -- as if they had no say in the shaping of their lives -- is a supreme act of condescension. Only 50 percent of all black children graduate from high school; an estimated 64 percent of black teenage girls will become pregnant. (Black children raised by female ''householders'' are five times as likely to live in poverty as those raised by married couples.) Are white racists forcing black teenagers to drop out of school or to have babies?
 Mr. Cosby got a lot of flak for complaining about children who couldn't speak standard English. Yet it isn't a derogation of the black vernacular -- a marvelously rich and inventive tongue -- to point out that there's a language of the marketplace, too, and learning to speak that language has generally been a precondition for economic success, whoever you are. When we let black youth become monolingual, we've limited their imaginative and economic possibilities.
 These issues can be ticklish, no question, but they're badly served by silence or squeamishness. Mr. Obama showed how to get the balance right. We've got to create as many opportunities as we can for the worst-off -- and ''make sure that every child in America has a decent shot at life.'' But values matter, too. We can't talk about the choices people have without talking about the choices people make. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); BASKETBALL (71%); CALCULUS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



39 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Lack of Regulation, Not Tyson, Is Boxing's Problem

BYLINE: By GREGORY JORDAN. 
Gregory Jordan is a freelance writer from Baltimore.

 BODY:
Preachers, politicians, creditors and divorce lawyers have spent the last few weeks jabbing more at Mike Tyson than Danny Williams, who knocked out Tyson in the fourth round Friday night. All have decried Tyson's bankruptcies, both financial and personal. And, for many critics, Tyson's need to stage several multimillion-dollar fights just to pay his creditors signifies boxing's overall decline.
 But the short-story writer and former boxer Thom Jones, author of ''Sonny Liston Was a Friend of Mine,'' says he thinks that Tyson craves his return to the ring for more than financial reasons, and that the sport of boxing will meet the bell despite its current struggles. 
 ''Mike is basically a showman, a smart guy, and a lot smarter than most people think,'' Jones said. ''His crimes are no worse than many football and basketball players'. The ring for him now is a refuge from all the people who want a piece of him. His real mistake has been believing what his entourage has told him. Don King took a dollar for every 50 cents he gave Mike. 
 ''Don King is the symbol of what is wrong with boxing, not Mike Tyson. Without King, Mike Tyson might have led the renaissance of boxing like we thought he would when he first won the crown.''
 Jones says he believes that promoters like King, who has settled a $100 million lawsuit by agreeing to pay Tyson $14 million, exploit both the athletes and a corruptible system rooted in boxing's origins as a regional club-based sport.
 Some critics call professional boxing the best example of Reaganomics in the sports business. State commissions set up their own local governing bodies, which oversee everything from safety standards to financial deals; there is no federal oversight. Unions have never gained any footing despite numerous efforts by boxers to organize themselves and by advocates to organize for them. And individual stars, whose big paydays distort boxing's overall economics, drive purses and television contracts. In short, boxing is the antithesis of the relatively socialistic economics of the National Football League.
 Surprisingly, it takes two pugnacious Republicans to push for the federal legislation that may help save the haggard fight game. Representative Peter King of New York is co-sponsoring a bill (HR-1281), currently in committee, that addresses issues far larger than Tyson's downfall. A similar bill, sponsored by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, passed in the Senate on March 31. 
 ''The idea is to set up a national board to administer laws and uniform standards,'' Peter King said of the plans to establish the United States Boxing Commission. ''There would be consistent safety standards, rules regarding financial security put up by promoters to make sure fighters get paid, refereeing standards, pension and health benefits. I always felt the government should stay out unless there is a need. But this is an area where the states have failed.''
 But Gil Clancy, a longtime boxing commentator, says such efforts may meet resistance from an unlikely source.
 ''It's the fighters themselves who have always been anti-union,'' Clancy said. ''They are the ultimate individualists in a cruel business, and they know they have to grab their payday when they can.''
 And so doomsayers call the sport's decline permanent.
 ''In the first golden age of American sports, boxing, horse racing and baseball prevailed,'' said Michael Mandelbaum, a professor of foreign relations at Johns Hopkins University and author of ''The Meaning of Sports.'' ''But boxing has suffered a steep fall for half a century. We are deceived by the Ali era. Behind him, boxing was already declining. There has been the rise of team sports at the expense of individual sports. 
 ''And in the last quarter century, violence has become less legitimate in our society. The idea of watching two guys beat each other up is less respectable. We are also a more honest and transparent society, and boxing has always dwelled in the nether regions of corruption and organized crime.''
 Despite the validity of Mandelbaum's observations, it is still arguable that no sport in the 20th century offered as many marquee athletes as boxing: Liston, Leonard, Duran, Ali, Dempsey, Marciano, LaMotta. 
 Larry Merchant, commentator for HBO's boxing series, says that the sport's golden ages have always been cyclical, and that its disgrace is exaggerated.
 ''There are many examples of fighters who have made big money and not squandered it,'' Merchant said. ''It's a stereotype that people like Tyson reinforce. But he's really just a dramatic example of a cliche we often see in the press and in the movies. You can count as many tragic fates among movie stars as boxers.''
 And it is boxing's star power that, if the sport can ever be reorganized, will help ensure its future. . The next big champion will make us quickly forget the tawdriness of Tyson's multiple requiems.
 Boxing's biggest fans today are card-carrying members of America's intelligentsia, Joyce Carol Oates and Norman Mailer to name two. From the movies to American fiction, the fetishization of the fallen champ and the glories of the gym rival baseball on the metaphor scorecard. Too often these devotees are sentimentalizers: their boxers are Hemingway's bulls, or bullfighters, or some combination of the two.
 Perhaps it takes an old-school writer like A.J. Liebling to best remind us that boxing is to be admired and enjoyed as much for its mechanics and nuances as its spectacle and one-of-a-kind characters. A good read by the fire of Liebling's essays, ''Neutral Corner,'' would also remind today's moral cleansers of the gentlemanliness of Floyd Patterson, the discipline of Ali and the devotion of Cus D'Amato. 
 A better target than Tyson for reformers is the entire boxing racket, from New Jersey to Nevada and all commissions and promoters in between. Boxing's rigged economics, porous governance and entrenched profiteers do not exonerate Tyson's behavior nor explain his predicament, but they do hasten the excessive decline of a myth-rich game.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Tyson's plan was to stage several multimillion-dollar fights so he could pay creditors. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); POLITICS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); SPORTS BUSINESS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); BASKETBALL (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PETER T KING (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



40 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: In Struggling Communities, Kerry Promises Better Future

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: ZANESVILLE, Ohio, July 31 

 BODY:
Senators John Kerry and John Edwards chugged across job-hungry western Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio on Saturday, promising that a better day was coming while pummeling President Bush for asserting that his policies had put the economy on an upswing.
 ''Yesterday the president said to America that we're turning the corner, the corner on the economy,'' a fiery Mr. Kerry shouted in Greensburg, Pa., a city of 16,000 residents where about 4,000 people -- some having waited more than three hours -- ignored a steady rain to hear him speak outside the railroad station.
 ''Let me ask you: If you're one of those 44 million Americans who doesn't have any health insurance, and you have no prospect of buying it, are you turning the corner?'' he asked. ''If you're one of those people who has a job that pays $9,000 less than the jobs that are being lost overseas, are you turning the corner because of those?'' 
 He continued: ''Let me tell you something, folks: The last time we had a president who talked about turning a corner, and ran on the slogan of turning the corner, was Herbert Hoover, and he ran on the prospect that 'prosperity is just around the corner.' I don't want to run talking about turning the corner, I'm running to climb the mountain and get to the top. And that's what I'm going to do.''
 Mr. Kerry, Mr. Edwards and their families pulled into Greensburg before taking their 10-bus convoy to Wheeling, W.Va., for a rally along the Ohio River attended by about 5,000 people. They ended the second campaign day of a two-week, coast-to-coast journey with a nighttime rally here in Zanesville, Ohio, that drew more than 7,000 people to the Muskingum County courthouse square. Like the other communities the Democrats were mining for votes on Saturday, Greensburg, 34 miles east of Pittsburgh, is heavily Democratic in registration. But it is full of blue-collar workers and socially conservative voters who voted against Bill Clinton and Al Gore in the last two elections, said Representative John P. Murtha, the Democrat whose district includes Greensburg.
 Mr. Kerry is arguing that such people have been voting against their economic self-interest.
 ''You deserve jobs that pay more than the jobs that are going overseas,'' he said. ''You deserve health care that's affordable. You deserve schools that work, and the class sizes that are capable of allowing teachers to teach. Seniors deserve prescription drugs that are affordable.''
 One self-styled Reagan Democrat listening was Susan Hutchison. ''When I voted for him, Bush came across as moral and sincere,'' Ms. Hutchison, of Youngwood, Pa., said. ''From what he said today it seems like Kerry might offer an alternative that re-establishes us as better people in the world.''
 Curk Fry of Latrobe, Pa., said he had voted for Mr. Bush but soured on him since. ''At first I felt Bush was great on Iraq, but the weapons of mass destruction just weren't there,'' Mr. Fry said. He said he had listened approvingly to Mr. Kerry's plans for expanding health care and improving education.
 ''My wife don't have health coverage anymore, even though my wife is a registered nurse,'' Mr. Fry said, with his young daughter in tow and his son in a stroller. ''I liked what I heard John Kerry saying about health care coverage. The way it stands is that if one of us gets sick, we lose everything.'' He added, ''I thought Bush would leave no child behind, but I am now scared for my son and daughter.''
 A Bush spokesman, Steve Schmidt, called Mr. Kerry pessimistic for ''comparing the 1.5 million new jobs created since August to the Great Depression, and trying to tell America that things aren't improving.''
 Nothing could better illustrate the importance of this swath of the industrial belt in the race than the fact that both the Democratic candidates and Mr. Bush found themselves riding across the same territory on the same day, in opposite directions.
 The candidates' schedules indicated their paths could collide somewhere on Interstate 70 east of Wheeling on Saturday afternoon. And though the famously punctual Mr. Bush added an unscheduled stop outside Wheeling, slowing himself down, Mr. Kerry's hour-and-46-minute tardiness in departing Greensburg dashed reporters' hopes for a game of chicken by motorcade.
 As he has for months, Mr. Kerry lamented the transfer of American jobs overseas. And after learning that Mr. Bush had done the same earlier in the day, Mr. Kerry's aides accused the president of changing his tune to blunt Mr. Kerry's attack.
 Stephanie Cutter, a Kerry spokeswoman, noted that Mr. Bush had as recently as July 21 accused Mr. Kerry of ''economic isolationism'' for his stance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); CONSERVATISM (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (90%); JOHN P MURTHA (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); AL GORE (59%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); WHEELING, WV, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



41 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-12

Hostage Freed, More Taken
The terrorist group of the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi said that it had seized two Turkish truck drivers and would behead them within 48 hours if their demands were not met, hours after the Turkish government confirmed that one of its citizens who had been held hostage had been freed. 10

The Army general who commanded the Iraq war, Gen. Tommy R. Franks, writes in a new book that intelligence failures failed to spot that Saddam Hussein had dispatched trucks and buses filled with a large paramilitary force to wage an insurgents' campaign against allied troops shortly after the conflict begin. 10

New Hurdles for Afghanistan
Attacks against American troops in Afghanistan and Afghan security forces and civilians have increased steadily in the past several months. 11

Iran Avows Nuclear Plan Rights
Iran vowed not to give up its uranium enrichment program and confirmed that it had restarted building centrifuges for that purpose. 12

Sudan Accepts Resolution
Sudan stepped back from its rejection of a resolution passed by the United Nations Security Council, saying it would comply with the resolution's demand that it disarm Arab militias responsible for atrocities in Darfur. 8

Farm Subsidies Accord
The World Trade Organization agreed that it would eventually eliminate billions of dollars of farm subsidies for rich nations in a new framework for revising global trade rules aimed at helping the poorest people. 8

Economic Disparity in China
The income divide between the urban rich and the rural poor in China has widened so sharply that some studies now compare China's social cleavage unfavorably with Africa's poorest nations. 1

Brazil Leads Haiti in Peace Aims
Brazil has stepped in at the head of a United Nations mission to maintain order and restore democracy in Haiti after one American administration after another has tried and failed. 12

NATIONAL 14-23

Pension Bailout Possible
The federal agency that insures company pensions is facing a possible cascade of bankruptcies and pension defaults in the airline industry that some experts fear could lead to another multibillion-dollar taxpayer bailout, echoing the savings and loan industry collapse of the 1980's. 1

Campaign Season Heats Up
The presidential campaign is rolling into a critical month, as President Bush seeks to make a more positive case for his re-election, and mount a new wave of attacks to blunt any post-convention bounce for Senator John Kerry. 1

Mr. Kerry and Senator John Edwards chugged across western Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio, promising that a better day was coming while pummeling Mr. Bush for asserting that his policies had put the economy on an upswing. 18

Europeans seem to feel that, with a speech that included searing criticism of Mr. Bush's administration, Mr. Kerry emerged from the convention a strengthened candidate, modestly bolstering their hopes that he could win the White House. 16

Few Benefit From Farm Deal
A vast majority of blacks who have submitted claims for compensation under a landmark 1999 class-action settlement with the United States Department of Agriculture have been rejected. 14

Labor Union Division
Some labor leaders are maneuvering to become the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s next president and some are hinting they might pull out of the organization. 19

A.C.L.U. Rejects Charity
The American Civil Liberties Union is withdrawing from a federal charity drive. The action was prompted by an article in The New York Times that reported that the group had signed a certification saying it would not knowingly employ people whose names appeared on several government terrorism watch lists. 23

OBITUARIES 32

NEW YORK/REGION 25-30

Terror Alert for City Buildings
The New York City Police Department, responding to new reports that terrorists may be planning to attack corporations or large public institutions in the city, advised building managers and corporate security personnel to step up their building security. The warnings appeared to be linked to the arrest on July 19 in Texas of a woman believed to be on a terror watch list, after she entered the United States from Mexico. 1

Fresh Air Fund 30

Chess 31
Weather 33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CENTRIFUGES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); AIRLINES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); JOHN EDWARDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) TURKEY (94%); CHINA (93%); SUDAN (93%); HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



42 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Shutting the Cold War Down

BYLINE: By Strobe Talbott. 
Strobe Talbott is the president of the Brookings Institution. His latest book, ''Engaging India: Diplomacy, Democracy and the Bomb,'' will be published in September.

 BODY:

REAGAN AND GORBACHEV
How the Cold War Ended.
By Jack F. Matlock Jr.
Illustrated. 363 pp. Random House. $27.95.
 RONALD REAGAN was widely eulogized for having won the cold war, liberated Eastern Europe and pulled the plug on the Soviet Union. Margaret Thatcher, Joe Lieberman, John McCain, Charles Krauthammer and other notables offered variations of The Economist's cover headline: ''The Man Who Beat Communism.'' 
 Actually, Jack F. Matlock Jr. writes in ''Reagan and Gorbachev,'' it was ''not so simple.'' He should know. A veteran foreign service officer and respected expert on the Soviet Union, he reached the pinnacle of his career under Reagan, serving first as the White House's senior coordinator of policy toward the Soviet Union, then as ambassador to Moscow. In both the title of his memoir and the story it tells, he gives co-star billing to Mikhail Gorbachev.
 Reagan himself went even farther. Asked at a press conference in Moscow in 1988, his last year in office, about the role he played in the great drama of the late 20th century, he described himself essentially as a supporting actor. ''Mr. Gorbachev,'' he said, ''deserves most of the credit, as the leader of this country.''
 This quotation was much cited at the time as an example of Reagan's graciousness, tact and self-deprecation. But Matlock's book bears out his former boss's judgment. The 40th president of the United States emerges here not as a geopolitical visionary who jettisoned the supposedly accommodationist policies of containment and detente, but as an archpragmatist and operational optimist who adjusted his own attitudes and conduct in order to encourage a new kind of Kremlin leader. 
 During his first term, Reagan denounced the pre-Gorbachev Soviet Union as an ''evil empire.'' The name-calling riled many Soviets (and more than a few Sovietologists) but did little diplomatic harm, since relations between Washington and Moscow were already in a rut. The Kremlin had become a geriatric ward, with Red Square doubling as the world's largest funeral parlor. 
 Then, in 1985, soon after Reagan's second inauguration, the vigorous, 54-year-old Gorbachev ascended to the leadership. He wanted to demilitarize Soviet foreign policy so that he could divert resources to the Augean task of fixing a broken economy. Initially, he expected no help from Reagan, whom he regarded as ''not simply a conservative, but a political 'dinosaur.' '' 
 For his part, Reagan assumed the new general secretary of the Communist Party would be ''totally dedicated to traditional Soviet goals.'' Nonetheless, he was prepared to test Prime Minister Thatcher's first impression: ''I like Mr. Gorbachev; we can do business together.''
 Getting back into the business of diplomacy with the principal adversary of the United States appealed to Reagan, just as it had to six previous occupants of the Oval Office. Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy had tried to make the most of Nikita S. Khrushchev's slogan of ''peaceful coexistence''; Lyndon B. Johnson jump-started arms control talks with Aleksei N. Kosygin; Richard Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter signed strategic-arms limitation agreements with Leonid I. Brezhnev. But those Soviet leaders were committed, above all, to preserving the status quo. Sooner or later, each caused a setback or a showdown with the United States through some act of barbarity or recklessness: the crushing of the Hungarian uprising in 1956, the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, the invasions of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Afghanistan in 1979, the destruction of a South Korean airliner that had wandered off course in 1983. Breakthroughs in United States-Soviet relations were inherently subject to breakdowns.
 Gorbachev altered that dynamic. He was determined to take the Soviet Union in a radically different direction -- away from the Big Lie (through his policy of glasnost), away from a command economy (through perestroika) and away from zero-sum competition with the West. 
 Reagan came quickly to recognize that Gorbachev's goals, far from being traditional, were downright revolutionary. He also saw that the transformation Gorbachev had in mind for his country would, if it came about, serve American interests. 
 As a result, without much fuss and without many of his supporters noticing, Reagan underwent a transformation of his own. The fire-breathing cold warrior set about trying, through intense, sustained personal engagement, to convince Gorbachev that the United States would not make him sorry for the course he had chosen. 
 Matlock describes in telling detail how Reagan rehearsed for his first meeting with Gorbachev, which took place in Geneva in November 1985. Reagan assigned the role of the Soviet leader to Matlock who, for maximum authenticity, played his part in Russian, mimicking Gorbachev's confident, loquacious style. Matlock also sent Reagan a series of ''spoof memos'' that were ''interlaced with jokes and anecdotes,'' based on an educated guess at what Gorbachev's own advisers were telling him in preparation for the encounter. 
 Shortly before setting off for Geneva, Reagan dictated a long memo of his own, laying out his assessment of the man he was about to meet.The Reagan game plan was to look for areas of common interest, be candid about points of contention and support Gorbachev's reforms while (in Matlock's paraphrase) ''avoiding any demand for 'regime change.' '' He cautioned the members of his administration not to rub Gorbachev's nose in any concessions he might make. Above all, Reagan wanted to establish a relationship with his Soviet counterpart that would make it easier to manage conflicts lest they escalate to thermonuclear war -- an imperative for every American president since Eisenhower. 
 Matlock puts the best light he can on Reagan's dream of a Star Wars anti-missile system, but he stops short of perpetuating the claim, now an article of faith among many conservatives, that the prospect of an impregnable shield over the United States and an arms race in space caused the Soviets to throw in the towel. Instead, Matlock focuses on Reagan's attempt to convince Gorbachev that American defense policy posed no threat to legitimate Soviet interests and should therefore not prevent the two leaders from establishing a high degree of mutual trust. 
 That word figured in Reagan's mantra, ''trust but verify.'' It set Gorbachev's teeth on edge. However, Reagan intended the motto not just as a caveat about dealing with the Soviets but also as a subtle admonition to his relentlessly hard-line and mistrustful secretary of defense, Caspar W. Weinberger. According to Matlock, Weinberger was ''utterly convinced that there was no potential benefit in negotiating anything with the Soviet leaders and that most negotiations were dangerous traps.'' The rivalry that Matlock describes between Weinberger and Secretary of State George P. Shultz bears an eerie similarity to what we know of the one between Colin L. Powell and Donald H. Rumsfeld. Shultz grew so exasperated with Weinberger's militancy and obstructionism that he contemplated resigning. Reagan wrote in his diary, ''I can't let this happen. Actually, George is carrying out my policy.''
 That policy, as Matlock summarizes it, ''was consistent throughout.'' Reagan ''wanted to reduce the threat of war, to convince the Soviet leaders that cooperation could serve the Soviet peoples better than confrontation and to encourage openness and democracy in the Soviet Union.'' 
 Presidential attachment to those precepts neither began nor ended with Ronald Reagan. It was Jimmy Carter who first put human rights prominently on the agenda of American-Soviet relations. George H. W. Bush skillfully served as a kind of air traffic controller in 1991, when the increasingly beleaguered Gorbachev brought the Soviet Union in for a relatively soft landing on the ash heap of history -- a major contribution to the end of the cold war that Matlock dismisses in a footnote as ''cleanup'' diplomacy. 
 While Matlock could have been more charitable to Reagan's predecessors and to his immediate successor, his account of Reagan's achievement as the nation's diplomat in chief is a public service as well as a contribution to the historical record. It is simultaneously admiring, authoritative and conscientious. It is also corrective, since it debunks much of the hype and spin with which we were blitzed earlier this summer. The truth is a better tribute to Reagan than the myth.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICS (69%); LITERATURE (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); CONSERVATISM (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%) Strobe Talbott; Jack F Jr Matlock; Ronald Wilson Reagan; Mikhail Gorbachev

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



43 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Does the Economy Have Cement Shoes?

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
THE economy is a major electoral battleground, and President Bush and Senator John Kerry have been jousting over everything from budgetary policy to the unemployment rate. 
 Yet even as the candidates unfurl their clashing economic philosophies, some experts say the next president will not easily turn the American economic ship. Like never before, economic policy will be constrained by the nation's foreign debt. 
 The debt load mounted when the nation's current account deficit started to bloat in the late 1990's. That deficit -- the broad measure of America's balance of trade and interest payments with the rest of the world -- grew despite the recession of 2001, and now amounts to about 5 percent of the nation's total output. 
 The growing foreign debt led to one of the most radical turnarounds in modern financial history. Until the late 1980's, the rest of the world owed the United States more than it owed the world. At the beginning of 2004, though, the balance between the United States' foreign assets and its liabilities was in the red by an amount equivalent to nearly 30 percent of gross domestic product.
 ''The United States is hurtling into debt,'' said Wynne Godley, a professor of economics at Cambridge University and a researcher at the Levy Economics Institute at Bard College in New York.
 No one knows how high this debt can go. ''We're in new territory,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. ''It can scare the jeebies out of a lot of people.''
 Still, Professor Godley and two colleagues -- Alex Izurieta of Cambridge and Gennaro Zezza at the University of Cassino in Italy -- made some projections on how the rising foreign debt load would limit economic growth. They assumed that the dollar would stay at current levels after declining 9 percent since 2002, and that the economy in the rest of the world would grow by 4 percent, on average, over the next four years. Then they factored in the propensities of Americans to import and export, and the impact of rising interest rates on the servicing of foreign debt. What they found wasn't pretty.
 Under these conditions, for the United States' economy to grow by 3.2 percent per year, on average, over the course of the next administration, the American current account deficit would have to surge to an unprecedented 7.5 percent of G.D.P. over the next four years. The nation's net financial deficit with the world would widen to more than 50 percent of G.D.P.
 These precarious finances could limit action on the budget deficit, despite the claims of the two candidates. President Bush says the deficit will pretty much take care of itself, mainly through faster economic growth that will increase government revenues and reduce entitlement spending. Senator Kerry says he can cut the deficit painlessly by scrapping some of Mr. Bush's tax cuts and reducing corporate subsidies and tax loopholes. 
 Neither of these options is a slam-dunk. As things stand now, it is questionable whether the United States can sustain brisk growth. But Mr. Kerry's plan would further reduce growth as higher taxes and lower spending cut into aggregate demand. And while lower budget deficits tend to reduce long-term interest rates and stimulate private spending, the over-indebted American consumer is unlikely to pick up the slack. 
 In fact, using the same assumptions as before on the dollar and foreign economic growth, Professor Godley and his colleagues found that if the next administration cut the overall government budget deficit by around 2 percentage points of gross domestic product, this could reduce annual G.D.P. growth by about 2 percent. 
 There is an alternative to this bleak outlook, but it will not be easy to achieve: let the dollar fall much further. This would improve the United States' net trade balance by increasing exports, reducing imports and putting a lid on the current account deficit. It would also improve the country's net financial position by increasing the dollar value of the country's foreign assets. 
 If the dollar fell by 5 percent a year from now until the end of the next administration, for a total decline of about 23 percent, the economy would grow 3.2 percent a year, according to Professor Godley's calculations. At the same time, the current account deficit would shrink to less than 3 percent of G.D.P. and the nation's net external financial deficit would halve to some 15 percent of G.D.P.
 This would also allow for a significant cut in the budget deficit, because slowing imports and rising exports would transfer the pain of reduced domestic demand onto the rest of the world.
 IT'S possible that this will happen naturally, and the dollar will simply decline in value, Mr. Paulsen said. Foreign purchases of American stocks and bonds have been falling in the last several months, and if this trend continues, it could push the dollar lower. 
 But it is unlikely that the dollar will be allowed to fall substantially. Pacific rim countries like Japan and China have resisted letting their currencies appreciate by intervening in currency markets. And Europe might oppose a further slide in the value of the dollar against the euro.
 Indeed, while a fall in the dollar would help the United States economy, it would hurt the rest of the world. And the rest of the world might not like that.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''In the Red''The foreign liabilities of the United States have outstripped its foreign assets.Graph tracks net external financial position of the United States from 1988 to 2003.(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%) United States Economy; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



44 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Blogged In Boston: Politics Gets An Unruly Spin

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
THOSE who caught John Edwards's speech accepting the vice-presidential nomination on television saw and heard the scrubbed, sunny future that Democrats hope to fashion for themselves and for America. Those who tuned in to Mr. Edwards on Wednesday night, as covered live on a blog called Pandagon.net, experienced a much different spectacle.
 ''The place is covered in what appear to be giant red sour strips emblazoned with Edwards's name,'' Ezra Klein wrote as he and a partner, Jesse Taylor, described the speech online from perches high up in the FleetCenter. ''To give a completely inane remark to begin,'' Mr. Taylor tapped on his keyboard, ''do Edwards's shirt sleeves seem too short for his arms?'' If that exchange failed to deliver enough of an alternative take on the evening, the so-called blogosphere soon sizzled with other dispatches. ''Personally, John Edwards's body language came across as 'sleazy trial lawyer' last night, but that probably means we've been reading too many R.N.C. talking points,'' Boi From Troy wrote on the site Wonkette the next day.
 Whether John Kerry and Mr. Edwards gained any bounce in Boston is still being calibrated by pollsters. But there is no question that the art of the political blog, or Web log, came out of the Democratic National Convention with plenty of momentum. 
 Bloggers -- more than three dozen of them -- won press credentials for the first time, and they quickly made their presence known. On Tuesday, Dave Winer of the blog Scripting News ventured down to the convention floor from the cheap seats known as Blogger Row and was buttonholed for interviews by ABC News, CNN and Fox. Dave Pell said that page views of his Electablog jumped at least sixfold, to 30,000 to 40,000 a day.
 Meanwhile, the traditional news media chewed over what the arrival of online commentators -- mostly untrained journalists whose stock in trade is the sharp opinion, often quippy -- meant to the political process. ''Obviously, the official media don't quite know how to deport themselves in relation to the blogs,'' said Orville Schell, dean of the graduate journalism program at the University of California, Berkeley. ''If they adopt them, it's like having a spastic arm -- they can't control it. But if they don't adopt it, they're missing out on the newest, edgiest trend in the media.''
 Although 200 bloggers applied for press passes, most of the chosen ones -- picked for originality, professionalism and popularity, according to convention planners -- ranged in their political views from lefty to leftier. Their sites had names like LiberalOasis and Seeing the Forest. The confirmed centrists, like Centerfield, also tended to be clearly labeled. Allen Larson, a Republican, did make the cut, but by Tuesday afternoon he had retreated to his home two miles from the FleetCenter to write his blog, the Larson Report. ''It was easier to just be able to walk around in my shorts and get something to eat when I wanted to,'' he explained.
 The anything-goes nature of the blog has proven attractive to the firebrands who felt that their voice in politics went mute when Howard Dean withdrew from the race. It was they who turned the blogosphere into a real Democratic party. While traditional commentators were still debating whether Teresa Heinz Kerry had gone too far with her ''shove it'' remark to the editorial page editor of The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, the boisterous cyberrabble saw the comment as a mere starting point in arguments with the right.
 ''What she did that nobody else -- not Kennedy, not Clinton, not Gore, not anyone -- was add that spine that's been missing from even the toughest speeches,'' Jesse Taylor wrote on Pandagon. ''I kind of want a first lady debate between Teresa and Laura, with Laura leaning in using that 'I'm saying something dirty' manner she has, while Teresa just stands up and goes straight politically buck-wild on her. But in a classy, worldly way.''
 Over all, the very nature of the blog -- all spin, all the time -- seemed to suit the coverage of a news event where the drama was carefully scripted, and the nominations were a sure thing. Not that some of the spin wasn't astringent. Patrick Belton, a 28-year-old graduate student at Oxford University in England who contributes to Oxblog, wrote, ''I can understand the longing, particularly pronounced among people one generation older than me, to actually have something go massively, extraordinarily, democratically wrong, such that the platform and slate are junked, and the delegates rise up in a Jeffersonian parliamentary fury to junk the nominees presumptive, and instead nominate, say, Peter Jennings.''
 At other times, the spinners seemed content just to meander in their own wordplay. ''I did run into the Napoleonic Howard Dean last night,'' Christopher Rabb recounted at Afro-Netizen, ''who was surrounded by three burly security guards who made Dr. Dean look like a Vienna sausage, albeit a surprisingly well-dressed Vienna sausage. Donning a new dark suit complemented by a white shirt whose collar did not gouge his neck veins, Dean is now what I'd call 'fashionably irrelevant.' ''
 A favored target of the bloggers was, perhaps unsurprisingly, the professional journalist. ''Trolling around the first floor looking for interviews I passed Sam Donaldson giving an interview to a local radio D.J.,'' wrote Xian on a site called the Power of Many. ''Without being too obvious, I tried to look at the marmoset that lives on his head.''
 ''It's really quite fascinating how the media is treating the bloggers and blogging,'' one of the best-known bloggers, Atrios, wrote on Eschaton. ''First, they spend a lot of time talking about how we don't have 'editors' or 'fact checkers' '' -- and how no one can trust what appears on the Internet, ''especially from those pesky bloggers.''
 Atrios, whose identity has been a subject of intrigue on the Internet, turned out to answer to the name Duncan at the FleetCenter. Other bloggers, and soon the mainstream press, were identifying him as Duncan B. Black, a former economics professor who is now a senior fellow at Media Matters for America, a Web-based group that monitors the conservative media. On Eschaton, Atrios quoted a report by Judy Woodruff of CNN that discussed the price John Kerry pays for haircuts, in which Ms. Woodruff named the Drudge Report as a source, acknowledging that the figure was unconfirmed. ''So, Judy feels free to push unconfirmed information from Drudge,'' Atrios wrote sneeringly.
 Indeed, Atrios seemed to assume the role of superego of the bloggers, sorting out the fellow travelers from those he viewed as opportunists. ''Look, I like Wonkette and enjoy reading it,'' he wrote. ''And given the many many media interview requests I've blown off, trust me, I'm not envying the attention. It's just Wonkette isn't really representative of blogs in any meaningful way. Happy for Wonkette getting attention as Wonkette, rather silly that she's getting attention as a 'blogger.' ''
 Wonkette, the pseudonym of Ana Marie Cox, who usually uploads Washington gossip, was working the convention as a correspondent for MTV. A colleague, Boi From Troy, who identified himself as a gay Republican, filled in for her at the Wonkette site. Of one 17-year-old delegate, he wrote: ''Yes, we do know HOT when we see it (even if she's a chick). Sarah Bender of Medina, Ohio, won't turn 18 until October, but the D.N.C. delegate is definitely turning heads in Beantown. We're thinking an Olsen-twins-style birthday countdown clock is in order.''
 Perhaps the greatest achievement of the bloggers was to create what the Democrats would like to see come November -- a Blue State nation. On television the party depicted itself as moving toward the center. But to follow the proceedings online was to burrow, link by link, deeper beneath the blankets of ideological fellowship. On LiberalOasis, for example, one found dozens of links to like-minded warriors, among them The American Prospect and a Web site called Class Struggle. In cyberspace, left-leaning bloggers have managed to create an America where Republicans simply don't exist, at least as anything more than useful abstractions -- like Eurasia and Eastasia in ''1984.''
 No wonder, then, that even the Democratic heavyweights are trying to sneak inside. The Kerry-Edwards campaign now has a blog of its own. Barack Obama, the Senate candidate from Illinois, has a blog. In fact, he even showed up at a blogger's breakfast on Monday and asked for tips. He got what he asked for from Jay Rosen, chairman of the journalism department at New York University, who runs the PressThink blog. The advice, shouted out, could not have been more blog, or less Washington:
 ''Write it yourself!''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NOT UP CLOSE, BUT PERSONAL -- The Democrats gave bloggers the cheap seats. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)
NEW FRONTIERSMAN -- Brad Johnson with his box of souvenir blogger buttons at a party in Boston. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 THE FIFTH ESTATE -- Blogger Web sites like these were granted press credentials to the Democratic National Convention this year for the first time. (pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TRENDS (75%); WRITERS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); LAWYERS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (64%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Computers and the Internet; News and News Media

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Alex Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



45 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: In Hard-Hit Ohio, Bush Says the U.S. Economy Is on the Mend

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Ohio, July 31 

 BODY:
President Bush on Saturday swept through a region hard hit by job loss and foreign competition, proclaiming that his policies were nursing the economy back to health and that Senator John Kerry's prescriptions would make things worse.
 Riding eastward by bus from Cleveland, Mr. Bush sought to build support in Ohio, a state vital to his re-election prospects, and counter efforts by Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, to capitalize on unemployment and widespread economic anxiety in the area. As Mr. Bush drove toward his final stop of the day in Pittsburgh, he nearly crossed paths with Mr. Kerry and Senator John Edwards, highlighting the effort by both sides to capture votes in industrial areas struggling to cope with the global economy. 
 Speaking in a drizzle to several thousand supporters on a muddy baseball field here, Mr. Bush acknowledged that northeastern Ohio had not enjoyed the economic rebound to the extent that most of the rest of the country had. 
 But, wading into the debate over the outsourcing of American jobs to lower-cost nations like China, Mexico and India, he sought to convince the crowd that he was fighting to give American workers a fair shot by demanding that other nations practice fair trade. Arguing that isolationism would be counterproductive, he said the best way to keep jobs from migrating overseas was to give American companies an edge by pursuing the same low-tax, business-friendly policies he has been advocating since taking office.
 ''To keep American jobs in America, regulation needs to be fair and reasonable,'' Mr. Bush said. ''To keep American jobs in America, we must end the junk and frivolous lawsuits that threaten employers all across the country. To keep American jobs in America, we will not overspend your money, and we will keep your taxes low.''
 Mr. Bush also highlighted his support for coal mining, an important issue in this part of the country, and suggested that Mr. Kerry's energy and environmental policies would work against the region.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said that since Mr. Bush took office, the economy had lost jobs, the federal budget had swung from surplus to deficit and the rolls of people without health insurance had increased by 3.7 million. On trade, a spokesman for Mr. Kerry said, Mr. Bush had a poor record of enforcing measures to protect American workers.
 On the second day of a swing that took him through Missouri, Michigan, Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, Mr. Bush made a quick visit to the training camp of the Cleveland Browns football team, all but ensuring smiling pictures of him on television throughout northern Ohio.
 But he spent most of the rest of the day in territory that was deeply divided politically and made grim for many people by layoffs. In Dover, Ohio, where Mr. Bush stopped briefly, the crowd included supporters waving ''Veterans for Bush'' placards and opponents highlighting the economic troubles, including a little red-haired girl with a sign saying, ''My grandpa lost his job! -- Your turn!''
 His first speech of the day was in Canton, in Stark County, a swing region that Bill Clinton won in 1996 and Mr. Bush won narrowly in 2000. 
 Canton has been rocked especially hard by bad economic news for the last several years, including the announcement in May by the area's biggest employer, the Timken Company, that it would cut 1,300 jobs at its ball-bearing plants. The company's owner, Tim Timken Jr., is one of Mr. Bush's biggest fund-raisers, and the president spoke at the company last year, drawing a link between his tax cuts and job creation. 
 Mr. Bush was met in Canton by demonstrators with signs asking, ''Where are the jobs, George?'' 
 On his way into town, Mr. Bush stopped to pick up a group of Timken employees to discuss the economy. And at a rally before 5,000 enthusiastic supporters in Canton, he said that he shared their worries about the country's economic future but that his approach would better address their problems.
 ''The economy is strong and it's getting stronger -- it lags in places like eastern Ohio, I know that,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I just traveled on the bus with workers who told me they are nervous about their future. They're concerned. I am, too. And, therefore, we must have a president who understands that in order to keep jobs at home, America must be the best place to do business.''
 As in many parts of the country, voters here will have to decide whether to judge Mr. Bush's economic record on the improvements of the past year or so, or against the prosperity of the 1990's. The unemployment rate in the Canton area in June was 6.5 percent. That compared with 5.6 percent nationwide in June, and was down from 7.7 percent in January and 7.3 percent a year ago. But it was up from 4.6 percent when Mr. Bush took office in January 2001.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An all-ages crowd turned out yesterday at the Canton Memorial Civic Center in Ohio to hear President Bush, who arrived by bus. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Paths That Nearly Crossed''Approximate route of each campaign through 10 p.m. yesterday.Map of Ohio highlighting the locations and times that President Bush and John Kerry visited yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX CONSULTING (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); TAX LAW (69%); BASEBALL (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); LAYOFFS (58%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); LITIGATION (50%); COAL MINING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



46 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: REPUBLICAN PLANS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Bush Planning August Attack Against Kerry

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and ROBIN TONER; Adam Nagourney reported from Boston for this article, and Robin Toner from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 31 

 BODY:
President Bush's campaign plans to use the normally quiet month of August for a vigorous drive to undercut John Kerry by turning attention away from his record in Vietnam to what the campaign described as an undistinguished and left-leaning record in the Senate.
 Mr. Bush's advisers plan to cap the month at the Republican convention in New York, which they said would feature Mr. Kerry as an object of humor and calculated derision.
 The summer campaign plans described by aides to Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry, who is in the midst of a two-week cross-country bus tour, suggest that August is no longer the slow and sleepy month it once was in presidential campaigns. Campaign aides described the period this year as an opportunity to shift the dynamic for their campaigns, because the race is so tight and because voters appear to be paying attention to what is going on. 
 Entering a four week run-up to the unusually late Republican convention, Mr. Bush's aides said they had laid out a week-by-week in plan in which Mr. Bush would talk about his accomplishments and his second-term agenda. But they said they would also try to blunt what Democrats and Republicans said was a successful four-day Democratic convention focused on Mr. Kerry's veteran credentials by turning attention from what they described as his brief four-month tour in Vietnam to his 20 years in Washington.
 ''This gives us a chance to lay out an agenda, to tell people what he wants to do over the next four years,'' said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior political adviser. ''We need, as we go into the convention, to put more of an emphasis on our agenda. But we still need to explain the war on terror and we need to offer a contrast with Senator Kerry.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, said: ''It's going to be an unusually contested month. What we're going to do is try to continue the momentum we have coming out of the convention.''
 In a sign of the intensity leading up to the convention in New York, aides to Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry said they had no plans to suspend campaigning during the Olympics, a two-week stretch starting Aug. 13 that aides to both men had once assumed would 
 force a respite on the campaign, as 
 the nation's attention turned to Greece. ''That's a two-week period in the middle of August; I don't think we can afford to do that,'' said Matthew Dowd, a senior Bush adviser, in a remark echoed by senior aides to Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Bush is planning to spend upward of $30 million on television advertising over the next four weeks. Democrats are looking to try to match Mr. Bush's effort with spending by independent Democratic committees not directly linked to the Kerry campaign.
 The traditional reason for the August slowdown has been to save money and energy at a time when it is thought that voters are not paying particularly close attention to the campaign. One of the most famous examples of an August political recess, at least in political circles, was when another Massachusetts Democrat running for president, Michael S. Dukakis, spent much of August 1988 at home and returned to the campaign to find that much of the lead he had enjoyed over Mr. Bush's father coming out of the Democratic convention had evaporated.
 Mr. Bush's aides said they were determined to use the weeks ahead to highlight Mr. Kerry's 20-year record in the Senate, using votes he has cast and what they described as his lack of accomplishments to portray him as ineffective, ideologically out of step, and a slacker for missing crucial votes while campaigning. 
 ''He has 20 lost years,'' Mr. Dowd said. ''It's amazing.'' Mr. Kerry's voting record -- he has cast more than 6,000 votes in all -- has long been considered vulnerable by Democrats and Republicans, not just because it can be characterized as liberal, but also because it is so vast and touches on so many complicated and politically fraught issues over so many years. The decision by Mr. Bush to turn on Mr. Kerry's voting record, while hardly a surprise, underlines why members of Congress are sometimes viewed as less than ideal candidates for president.
 The decision by Mr. Bush's aides to continue the attacks on Mr. Kerry up to and including the convention is in keeping with the aggressive tone the White House has struck against Mr. Kerry from the moment he effectively won his nomination in March.
 Some Democrats and even some Republicans have argued that such attacks have less power than they once did, and could backfire on Mr. Bush. 
 ''The research we've done shows that the Bush campaign has come right up to the edge and probably now crossed the line in being too negative,'' said Geoff Garin, a pollster for the Democratic Party. He asserted that Mr. Bush was in something of a strategic box, under pressure to try to turn back any Kerry rise by attacking him, but in danger of alienating undecided voters who he said already perceived the Republicans as too negative.
 And Democrats are increasingly trying to seize the moral high ground on the tone of this campaign. Mr. Kerry, on the eve of coming to Boston for his convention, said he did not want it to turn into a week of attacks on Mr. Bush. In his speech, he urged Mr. Bush to take ''the high road'' and avoid such attacks in the weeks ahead.
 But Mr. Bush's advisers dismissed that as political gimmickry, asserting that Mr. Kerry had in fact countenanced an entirely negative convention, no matter how he and other Democrats described it.
 ''The whole spin that somehow this was a positive convention: I would call it the chutzpah convention,'' said Nicolle Devenish, Mr. Bush's campaign communications director. ''These people walked out and said they would be positive, and instead they were so negative: Sharpton, Kennedy, Gore.''
 Mr. Dowd said: ''I don't think anybody bought that. In the course of a speech when he talks about taking the high road, he's talking about Enron, he's talking about polluters, he's talking about that we want to mislead. Voters are smarter than that.''
 And, Bush advisers argued, voters are hungry for information about the records and positions of Mr. Kerry as they seek to sort out the candidates in the week ahead. Mr. Bush's strategists said that he and the campaign would seek to feed that hunger by pointing in particular to votes Mr. Kerry had cast.
 ''I think there's a public appetite for information, for finding out where people stand on issues,'' said Mr. Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman. ''I don't think there's an appetite for public name-calling. An appetite for information is different from an appetite for slogans and name-calling.''
 Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, said August offered Mr. Bush a platform and an opportunity to begin pushing back Mr. Kerry as the spotlight turns to him in the run-up to the Republican convention. ''He ought to have a chance to tell his side of the story,'' Mr. McInturff said. ''What you hope is that puts you back by Labor Day at parity or better. Then you kick off a very close campaign.''
 Mr. Kerry's advisers said they planned an intensive coast-to-coast month of campaigning that would highlight his domestic proposals and the central message of the convention: that he ''understands his first priority is to defend the nation,'' said Tad Devine, a senior Kerry adviser.
 Mr. Kerry's aides said that voters who are still considered persuadable -- about 15 percent to 20 percent -- were interested in hearing what the candidates plan to do, on the economy, health care and national security. Mr. Kerry will be talking about those plans throughout the month, and is likely to issue his proposals in book form during August, taking a cue from the Clinton campaign of 1992, which issued a policy blueprint called ''Putting People First.''
 Beyond that, his aides said that he would spend much of his time in medium and small communities where he is almost certain to receive extensive coverage in small-town newspapers and on local television stations. That kind of attention has become particularly important to Mr. Kerry this month because he is now, as the official nominee, under the spending restrictions imposed by the nation's campaign finance system. He can spend only about $75 million between now and Election Day.
 By contrast, Mr. Bush, who picked the latest date possible for a convention, does not fall under that limit until he accepts his party's nomination at the beginning of September. Through August, he, unlike Mr. Kerry, is able to spend money.
 Accordingly, Mr. Kerry's campaign officials said they had no plans to run paid advertising in August, so they can husband their resources for the fall.


GRAPHIC: Photos: About 5,000 people greeted Senators John Kerry and John Edwards yesterday at a rally in Wheeling, W.Va. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 In Cambridge, Ohio, yesterday, supporters showed their appreciation for the president and he reciprocated. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LIBERALISM (77%); TERRORISM (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); KARL ROVE (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Adam Nagourney; Robin Toner

GEOGRAPHIC: WHEELING, WV, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (88%); GREECE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



47 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Though United in Politics, Unions Face Internal Turmoil

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 30 

 BODY:
The nation's labor unions have rallied behind John Kerry after being openly divided just a few months ago when many unions backed Representative Richard A. Gephardt for president while others supported Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor.
 But behind their newfound unity in politics, the nation's unions are in turmoil, with some labor leaders maneuvering to become the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s next president and some hinting that they might pull out of the organization. Some union presidents, alarmed that the labor movement is shrinking, are calling for a radical overhaul of organized labor, while others angrily accuse them of trying to dictate policies and of washing labor's dirty laundry in public.
 As hundreds of union leaders gathered here for the Democratic convention, the head of Senator Kerry's labor effort, Harold Schaitberger, implored those leaders to put aside their internal bickering and elbow-throwing, at least through November, so labor can focus on electing Mr. Kerry. With labor promising its biggest campaign mobilization ever, the Kerry camp is looking for a big lift from organized labor, which represents 13 million workers and traditionally provides the army of foot soldiers that Democrats need if they are to win. 
 ''It's time that we all pull together,'' said Mr. Schaitberger, president of the International Association of Firefighters, the first major union to endorse Mr. Kerry. ''What's at stake is the very existence of the labor movement. I think the movement will be damaged, will be set back for decades, if George Bush wins again.''
 He complained that Mr. Bush had stripped many federal workers of their right to unionize, had watered down overtime and job safety protections and had appointed a National Labor Relations Board that had made it harder for unions to organize workers.
 But appeals for labor unity stumbled badly during the convention. Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, the nation's fastest-growing union, gave interviews in which he asserted that the Democrats lacked an economic message and that Mr. Kerry was not pro-worker enough. Mr. Stern, whose union has 1.6 million members, also said organized labor was in crisis. 
 ''The Democrats have to decide where they stand on economic issues,'' Mr. Stern said in an interview on the convention's first day. ''John Kerry's positions are fine, but they don't go far enough to deal with the issues that are facing people who go to work every day.'' 
 Mr. Stern's comments angered and confounded other labor leaders, especially because the service employees say they plan to spend $65 million this year to help elect Mr. Kerry, more than twice the level in 2000 and far more than any union has ever spent in a campaign. Indeed, the nation's unions plan to spend more than $160 million on politics this year, up from an estimated $100 million four years ago.
 Mr. Stern's harsh words for organized labor and the Democrats caused some union leaders to attack him for imprudence and bad timing. 
 ''We thought there was an understanding that whatever the problems or divisions, you put that on the shelf until after November,'' said Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
 Mr. Schaitberger said Mr. Stern was wrong in suggesting that Mr. Kerry was not pro-worker enough. 
 ''I can't disagree more strongly,'' he said. ''John Kerry has a 20-year track record with labor that you can measure, whether it's increasing the minimum wage or protecting the right to bargain collectively.''
 Mr. Stern's comments were the latest sparks generated by his faction within the A.F.L.-C.I.O. That four-union grouping, the New Unity Partnership, has called for overhauling the A.F.L.-C.I.O., creating fewer and bigger unions and redefining which unions can recruit which workers. Some leaders in this group have even hinted that they might pull out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. if the federation, comprising 60 unions, shunned their calls for change.
 Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the International Association of Machinists, said that if the partnership's leaders continued trying to dictate to other unions, the labor federation might split into competing halves, like the old American Federation of Labor and old Congress of Industrial Organizations before they merged a half century ago. Mr. Buffenbarger said several industrial unions resented the way the partnership was trying to dominate the labor federation 
 ''The way they talk, it's my way or no way,'' Mr. Buffenbarger said. ''If the rhetoric doesn't calm down, you'll see old alliances form and that might lead to recreating the old A.F.L. and old C.I.O.'' Mr. Buffenbarger said some union leaders felt that the partnership's leaders -- three of the five are Ivy League graduates -- talk down to them. 
 Bruce Raynor, president of Unite Here, a union representing textile, hotel and restaurant workers and a member of the New Unity Partnership, said Mr. Stern and the partnership were right to push for far-reaching changes. He said the structure of organized labor was outmoded, asserting that unions were too fractured, small and poorly structured to contend with global corporations.
 ''The labor movement needs to confront these issues, but not in a backroom,'' Mr. Raynor said. ''We're not the Kremlin. It's not like people don't know that our ability to protect American workers has been weakened. We have to turn that around, and to some degree that debate has to be done publicly.'' 
 Behind this feuding are the seeds of the race to succeed John J. Sweeney, 70, who has been the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president for nine years. Mr. Sweeney has repeatedly said he would seek a new four-year term next July.
 But many labor leaders predict that he may step aside, suggesting that he declared he wanted another term to prevent labor leaders from focusing their energies this year on campaigning to succeed him, instead of campaigning for the Democratic presidential nominee.
 Some labor leaders say they expect the New Unity Partnership to pressure Mr. Sweeney not to run again to make way for new blood. Many say they expect John Wilhelm, the longtime president of the hotel and restaurant employees union and a leader of the New Unity Partnership, to seek to succeed Mr. Sweeney. 
 But if Mr. Sweeney steps aside, several industrial unions are expected to back Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s secretary-treasurer. 
 ''There's no question that the labor movement should talk about and focus on change, but our emphasis right now has to be on the election of John Kerry,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''We have had some terrible times over the last four years with the anti-worker, anti-union policies of the Bush administration.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, says he will seek a new four-term next July. But many labor leaders predict he may step aside. (Photo by Stephan Savoia/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



48 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: An Appeal Beyond Race

BYLINE: By SCOTT L. MALCOMSON

 BODY:
ON Tuesday, at about 9 p.m., Barack Obama was an Illinois state legislator running for the Senate. 
 A half-hour later, after he had given the keynote address at the Democratic National Convention, he was the party's hot ticket. Pundits even predicted he would be the first black president. 
 That's a lot to hang on one speech. But the reaction to his speech tells you a lot about racial politics in the United States today. 
 Mr. Obama, 42, was not raised by black parents. His mother, who is white and from Kansas, split with his father, a Kenyan economist, when he was just a toddler. His father returned to Africa -- and visited his son just once, when Barack was 10. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Obama's mother and her parents raised him, mainly in Hawaii. He did not grow up in a black world and his family had no particular connection to the black experience in America. Yet Mr. Obama had black skin and that made him, like it or not, a black man with a place in the centuries-long story of race in America.
 Mr. Obama seems to have realized early on that his situation would present him with some odd and complicated choices. In his memoir, ''Dreams From My Father,'' he writes that he did not talk much about his mother's whiteness because he feared that ''by doing so I was ingratiating myself to whites'' -- a shrewd assessment of white people for a 12-year-old, and an even shrewder assessment of himself.
 He would, therefore, go in the world as black because he thought it was the right thing to do, and because -- it's clear from his book -- he loved and missed and was mad at his father. 
 Not that he was always treated ''simply'' as an African-American. True, he was pulled up several rungs of the ladder by one of the black political barons in Illinois, Emil Jones Jr. But he also faced you're-not-black-enough criticism from black rivals.
 More important for his Senate race and his new role on the national stage, Mr. Obama's ability to win white votes is what has made him such a rising political figure. In the primary race for Senate, ''two of his voters were white for every one that was black, and that makes him a star,'' said David Bositis of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington research group. 
 Mark Blumenthal, who did polling for one of Mr. Obama's white primary opponents, said, ''I don't think voters look at him stereotypically.''
 When Mr. Blumenthal removed African-Americans and most college-educated liberals from his sample of Democratic voters, he still found Mr. Obama's share going to 28 percent from 5 percent in just a few weeks near the end of the campaign. Mr. Bositis noted that Illinois voters have long been more willing than most to elect black officials, but this strong an appeal remains remarkable. 
 Yet some political analysts have wondered whether white voters don't also find him attractive because, while he is black, he is not the direct product of generations of black life in America: he is not black in the usual way. 
 In a May article about Mr. Obama in The New Republic, Noam Scheiber wrote, ''The power of Obama's exotic background to neutralize race as an issue, combined with his elite education and his credential as the first African-American Harvard Law Review president, made him an African-American candidate who was not stereotypically African-American.'' 
 Certainly, Mr. Obama did not, in his convention speech, sound the familiar notes of African-American politics. He spoke much more as an immigrant, whose father came to the ''magical place'' of America. 
 ''In no other country on earth is my story possible,'' he said. 
 Orlando Patterson, a sociologist at Harvard, said Mr. Obama is part of ''a transcending culture'' that goes beyond particular identities.
 ''I see him as in the tradition of Colin Powell, and of a generation that wants to emphasize American identity rather than racial identity,'' Professor Patterson said.
 Mr. Obama's immigrant story echoed President Woodrow Wilson's words to a group of immigrants: ''If some of us have forgotten what America believed in, you, at any rate, imported in your own hearts a renewal of the belief. If I have in any degree forgotten what America was intended for, I will thank God if you will remind me.'' (Of course, as a segregationist Wilson did not have people like Mr. Obama's father in mind.) 
 In citing Thomas Jefferson's opening words on equality from the Declaration of Independence, Mr. Obama also broke the mold; African-American politicians have not cited those words without sarcasm and qualification for many years, if ever. 
 Rather than positioning him within a black tradition, Mr. Obama's speech evoked, through his and his family's varied races, trades and professions, a diversity that aims at unity. 
 His biography gave him a credibility no one else could have: he was able to identify with the poor and the Arab-American, with immigrants, with African-Americans. In other contexts, he has identified with white farmers -- people like his mother's family.
 Most people can find something to identify with in Barack Obama, and he can find something to identify with in them. We have never had a politician quite like this. 
 It may be a paradox, but only someone this rare could be so universal.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rare political star: Barack Obama with Jesse Jackson. (Photo by Steve Matteo/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIBERALISM (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JESSE JACKSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



49 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHARLESTON; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: For Proposed Development, A Tiny but Formidable Foe

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM

 BODY:
Say this about Pycnanthemum torrei and Eleocharis obtusa: they certainly are tenacious flora. 
 The plants, otherwise known as Torrey's mountain mint and blunt spikerush, have become something of a hitch in the plans to construct a 412,000-square-foot shopping and community center near the southern tip of Staten Island. 
 Torrey's mountain mint, endangered in seven states, and the spikerush, considered rare in New York, both grow along Veterans Road West in the rustic Charleston section. The road happens to form the southern boundary of the proposed new development, Bricktown Centre at Charleston, which would contain a Home Depot and a Target, among other stores. 
 Mayor Bloomberg's office recently declared that construction on the site would not affect the local environment, provided that plans for a sidewalk where the plants currently grow were eliminated. That order did not go over well.
 ''The elimination of sidewalk along Veterans Road West in order to preserve these plants is totally unacceptable,'' the local community board wrote in a July letter to the mayor.
 The board argued that the site, which will also contain a school, a park and a miniature golf center, needed pedestrian access.
 Now it seems as if nearly everyone concerned, including the borough president, is trying to repair the situation as quickly as possible. One solution, the project's backers say, is to simply pick a new spot for the sidewalk. 
 ''The question is going to come down to where the sidewalk can actually be located,'' said Jesse Masyr, a lawyer for Blumenfeld Development Group, the site's planner. ''There are less sensitive areas.''
 Relocating the sidewalk, however, would require altering the project plans and getting the city's consent. In the meantime, the city's Economic Development Corporation, the developer and the community continue to try to work out a compromise.
 As for the plants, they are enclosed behind a six-foot-tall green fence. Every so often, cars whoosh by on their way to Arthur Kill Road, but otherwise life is tranquil.
 According to Steven E. Clemants, vice president for science at Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Torrey's mountain mint plant is a relative botanical mystery.
 ''It's such a rarity to find,'' Dr. Clemants said. ''There's not a lot of ecological information available.'' As for the spikerush, he said, ''It's more of an obscure plant. It's hard to identify, which is why it's often overlooked.''
 What is not a mystery is whether the wheels of Staten Island politics will soon turn toward a solution to the sidewalk issue.
 ''Trust me,'' Borough President James P. Molinaro said, ''I'll get it done. O.K.?'' JEFF VANDAM


GRAPHIC: Photos: Torrey's mountain mint (Photo by Mark Mohlenbrock)
 Blunt spikerush (Photo by Britton, N.L., and A. Brown, 1913) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%); GOLF (66%) Flowers and Plants ; Endangered and Extinct Species; Torrey's Mountain Mint (Plant); Blunt Spikerush (Plant)

ORGANIZATION: Blumenfeld Development Group; Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (70%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Staten Island (NYC) 

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



50 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 7345 words

HEADLINE: The Triumph of the Quiet Tycoon

BYLINE: By Peter Maass. 
Peter Maass is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Pity, if you can, the richest man in Russia. With a fortune estimated at $15 billion, Mikhail Khodorkovsky is on trial for fraud, embezzlement and tax evasion and faces a 10-year jail term. His oil company, Yukos, has been hit with a tax bill of $3.4 billion, and the government is threatening to seize its most valuable assets. Although many nations, including America, tend to err on the side of courtesy to wealthy defendants, Russia does not: denied bail since his arrest in October, Khodorkovsky has not been allowed to prepare for trial from the comfort of one of his mansions, and when he is brought to court, he is placed in a metal cage.
 In today's Russia, wealth attracts trouble. President Vladimir Putin, eager to punish billionaires who oppose his rule, has chosen to make an example of Khodorkovsky, though Khodorkovsky is not the first to face Putin's selective wrath. Not long ago, Boris Berezovsky, a billionaire power broker in Moscow in the 1990's, chose exile in London to the metal cage that might have been his fate if he stayed in Russia. Vladimir Gusinsky, a media baron, was next up: forced to sell his empire at fire-sale prices, Gusinsky must now content himself with exile in Israel. 
 Even with these departures, there is no shortage of the ultrawealthy in Russia; more billionaires now live in Moscow (33) than in New York (31), according to a survey by the Russian edition of Forbes. American tycoons tend to be celebrated by the public and politicians alike, but their Russian brethren are regarded, at home, as the reason so much has gone wrong since the Soviet Union ceased to be. The oligarchs, as they are known, amassed their fortunes during the gangster days of Boris Yeltsin's presidency in the 1990's, when the Russian economy operated on a regime of insiderism, bribery and coercion. Russia's billionaires can afford an army of liveried servants and an air force of private jets -- one tycoon has reportedly ordered a Boeing 767 equipped with its own antimissile system -- but sympathy, in Putin's Russia, is an item they cannot acquire at any price.
 The smartest tycoons in Moscow are behaving as Charles Darwin would advise -- adapting to their new environment by lying low and acting loyal. The man who has best mastered the art of cunning blandness is Vagit Alekperov, the president of Lukoil and reportedly one of the 10 richest Russians, with a fortune estimated at nearly $4 billion. He is the main rival to Khodorkovsky -- until Putin's crackdown on Yukos, their companies vied for the top standing in Russia's oil industry -- and for the moment it is Alekperov who has come out on top.
 Alekperov, who is 54, has a laser stare that could melt an iceberg. His hair is a few millimeters longer than a crewcut, and with his stocky frame, he would be an apt candidate for the cast of ''The Sopranos.'' He speaks in a voice that often slides into a mumble, as if it is not his job to speak clearly but yours to listen closely. Most people choose to listen closely, because he presides over a company that controls almost as much oil as Exxon Mobil and employs more than 100,000 people.
 The decor of an executive's office, like the suit he selects each morning, is a telling choice. In Lukoil's glass-and-steel towers in central Moscow, Alekperov's office is expansive but sparsely furnished, the floors and walls covered with a tasteful cut of blond wood. The couches and chairs are upholstered in an understated red leather (red and white are Lukoil's corporate colors). On a wall, there is a huge relief map of the world, with small lights denoting the places where Lukoil has projects. Russia is well-lighted, of course, but so is Saudi Arabia (a multibillion-dollar gas field is being developed there) as well as Iraq (in 1997, Lukoil struck a deal with Saddam Hussein to develop the West Qurna field, and the company is now negotiating with the interim Iraqi government to revive the deal). Egypt has a light, as does the United States, where Lukoil operates a string of gas stations on the East Coast.
 Alekperov's titanium-and-glass desk is fastidiously neat -- he hates disorder -- and behind it hangs a frieze of the double-headed eagle, which is Russia's coat of arms. If a visitor doesn't yet grasp his message, there is just one photograph on his desk, a black-and-white portrait that shows not his wife or teenage son but President Putin. If, in your mind's eye, you replace the eagle with a hammer and sickle, and if you imagine a photo of Leonid Brezhnev on the desk, you could be back in the U.S.S.R.
 ''Politics are close to me, but there are different ways of participating in politics,'' Alekperov told me during a talk in his office on a recent Saturday morning. ''I can't afford to be indifferent to politics, but I don't have personal ambitions. I have only one task connected with politics, to help the country and the company. I'm not close to Mr. Putin, but I treat him with great respect.''
 The rule for Russian billionaires these days is not to get in the way of the Kremlin and, if at all possible, not to draw attention to their fabulous wealth. For the oligarchs, boring is the new black. Alekperov wears a watch that doesn't scream for attention, and most of the shirts I saw on him were fastened at the cuff with buttons, not links. His indulgences, if they exist, are kept out of view; he lives quietly though not uncomfortably. He travels, as all billionaires must, in an armored Mercedes sedan that is led and trailed by vehicles bearing bodyguards with customized assault rifles. Yet the executive jet he flies on belongs to Lukoil and is a standard feature for oil executives across the globe; there is no Boeing in his garage. He behaves as if his greatest wish is to be ignored by the public. 
 Yet Alekperov appears innocuous only to those whose attention he does not wish to rouse -- politicians, the public and, to an extent, journalists. (He agreed to talk with me because Lukoil has embarked on a series of international projects and wishes to raise its global profile.) His unimpressiveness is calculated. He is a graduate of the Soviet system, known mostly for timeservers, ideologues and incompetents. But the system included a cadre of capable men and women without whom the Soviet Union would have collapsed decades before the Berlin Wall and without whom Yuri Gagarin would not have returned to earth with a pulse. Their competence was not flaunted, because their accession to positions of power depended on a degree of self-effacement; the gray men of the Politburo did not take well to rock stars.
 The only time in our discussions that Alekperov became animated was when I asked why he didn't covet the publicity and political station that were like oxygen to his financial brethren. ''I am well known in my field,'' he replied, briskly, referring to the global oil industry. ''I'm quite satisfied with it. I don't want anything else. I'm not an actor who appears on the stage and gives people advice on how to live or what to do and entertains them. It is not my specialty.''
 I spent nearly a dozen hours with Alekperov, attending several meetings he led and flying to Azerbaijan with him on a business trip, and he never raised his voice or tossed his head back in laughter or displayed any vivid emotion other than impatience, which seemed to be his default setting. Still, I wondered whether his behavior might be different when a reporter is not present; ashtrays hurled at aides, perhaps, or bacchanalian fetes in gold-plated dachas. So I asked Mark Mobius, an emerging-markets investor who is on Lukoil's board, whether he could give me any colorful examples of Alekperov's style. We were sitting in Mobius's office in Moscow -- he was in town for a board meeting -- and he broke into laughter.
 ''That's a good question,'' Mobius said when his chuckles faded. ''I can't think of anything he's done or said that you would call colorful or out of the ordinary. I don't know what the style of the Soviet executive was, but I think he probably reflects some of the best elements of that style. He is very much an organization man.''
 In Russia these days, the only organization that counts is Putin's.
It is difficult to understand Putin's organization without understanding its reliance on oil. In the 1980's, the Soviet Union was the world's largest producer of crude, ahead of Saudi Arabia. The bulk of the 12 million barrels produced each day fueled the Soviet economy and its anemic satellites in Eastern Europe, Cuba and North Korea. Yet there was enough left over -- about two million barrels a day -- for customers outside the Soviet bloc who would pay hard currency. This was an Achilles' heel for the Soviets. According to ''Reagan's War,'' a book by Peter Schweizer, ''C.I.A. analysts had concluded that for every one-dollar drop in the price of a barrel of oil, Moscow would lose between $500million and $1 billion per year in critical hard currency.''
 The Soviet empire was not extortionary, in the sense of providing a bounty of riches to the imperial center, as India and other colonial holdings had done for Britain in the 19th and 20th centuries; instead, it was a drain on Moscow. Without oil, the heirs of Lenin would have had great difficulty subsidizing their needy allies, their globe-spanning navy, their 45,000 nuclear weapons, their four-million-man army, their record-setting Olympians and their space stations. Oil was, in many ways, more crucial to the Kremlin than ideology.
 Russian production dropped by nearly half following the Soviet collapse in 1991. The industry's recovery has been a key goal of Putin's government; just as the Soviet Union needed oil to finance its empire, Putin needs oil for his more modest task, to get Russia back on its feet. Since 1999, production has risen by 50 percent, thanks to an influx of investment and the incentive of rising oil prices. Russia is now the second-largest exporter of oil after Saudi Arabia. According to a World Bank report this year, energy revenues account for 20 percent of Russia's economy and the bulk of its exports. In other words, Russia has become something of an oil state.
 On the surface, this is good. The Russian economy, a wreck for most of the 1990's, has begun to function in a manner that would appeal to Alan Greenspan. Growth reached 7.2 percent last year, and foreign-currency reserves surpassed $80 billion. Supply and demand are not the estranged cousins they used to be; many Russians no longer feel the threat of abject poverty. The government aims for a doubling of gross domestic product by 2013.
 Yet across the globe, an abundance of natural resources has rarely been a long-term blessing for developing countries possessing it; their economies, even their societies, have been twisted by the corruption, megalomania and warfare that energy and mineral resources can foster. This is known in development economics as the resource curse. It is an inevitable temptation, in a resource-rich country like Russia, for leaders to misgovern for reasons of political or financial greed. There is simply too much easy money flowing through too few hands. Nigeria is a prime example: despite several hundred billion dollars of oil revenues in recent decades, Nigeria is a mess of instability, corruption and conflict. Saudi Arabia is a study in another variety of the resource curse -- the country's wealth, hoarded by the royal family, has also been used to buy the acquiescence of fundamentalist leaders, and the result has been a mushrooming of fanaticism throughout the Mideast and beyond. In Iraq, which possesses the world's second-largest proven oil reserves, Saddam Hussein used his country's windfall to underwrite wars against Iran and Kuwait.
 More generally, resource wealth tends to be a disincentive to develop nonresource industries. After all, why work hard at such things if you have loads of money underground? The problem with this route is that a country whose revenues are tied to one commodity tends to experience a seesaw performance; when the commodity's price takes a nose dive, so does the economy. Of course, oil and minerals don't always lead to bad outcomes: Britain and Norway are 20th-century examples of countries that managed to invest their oil bounties wisely. Their success stemmed largely from the fact that they had well-developed political and economic institutions before they struck oil, and their fortunate outcomes have been the exception.
 ''The oddity of resource-poor economies outperforming resource-rich economies has been a constant motif of economic history,'' wrote Jeffrey Sachs and Andrew Warner in a seminal 1995 study. ''In the 19th and 20th centuries, resource-poor countries such as Switzerland and Japan surged ahead of resource-abundant economies such as Russia. In the past 30 years, the world's star performers have been the resource-poor newly industrializing economies of East Asia -- Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore -- while many resource-rich economies, such as the oil-rich countries of Mexico, Nigeria and Venezuela, have gone bankrupt.''
 In Russia, the oil bonanza -- which may well be followed by a natural-gas bonanza, because Russia has a third of the world's reserves of natural gas -- played a key role in creating oligarch power. Without their control of much of the country's resources, including metals, the oligarchs would have had a harder time buying influence and diminishing the power of the government. That's why Putin's crackdown has been welcomed by most nonbillionaire Russians and most foreign investors: the return of power to the government is a step that offers the possibility of Russia becoming something of a normal country -- assuming Putin does not succumb to the financial and political temptations that are present at every waking moment.
Vagit Alekperov knows the seductions of oil. He was born in 1950 in Baku, in Azerbaijan, which was then a Soviet republic and the center of the Soviet oil industry. His Muslim Azeri father, Yusuf, was an oil worker who died when Vagit was a boy; his Russian Orthodox mother, Tatiana, is still alive. (Alekperov prudently keeps leather-bound copies of both the Koran and the Bible at his office, to allay any concerns that he prefers one almighty to another.) He was a studious, fun-averse child -- according to a semiofficial biography, his older sister had to order him out of the house to play. He did well in high school and graduated from the Azerbaijan Institute of Oil and Petrochemistry, after which he worked on the Oil Rocks, a fabled offshore field in the Caspian Sea. The facilities were Dickensian. He lived on primitive rigs prone to explosions, fires, storms and other disasters. On one occasion, a blowout on his rig threw him into the storm-tossed Caspian, and he had to swim for his life.
 Alekperov was not just tough, he was also smart, and when western Siberia beckoned as the new mother lode of Soviet oil in the 1970's, he was tapped to manage the new fields around Kogalym. The lore that now surrounds him includes the story that when repair workers were afraid of approaching a pipe that had ruptured -- a spark could ignite a fireball -- Alekperov went to the pipe, sat on it and told the workers to get to work. If the pipe exploded, the Soviet roughnecks would at least have the satisfaction of knowing that their boss would pay the price, too.
 He was summoned to Moscow in 1989, becoming, before he turned 40, the youngest deputy energy minister in Soviet history. His timing, it turned out, was perfect. General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev had opened the door to foreign investment, and Western oil companies were beginning to make friends in Moscow. When British Petroleum arranged a visit to Britain in 1990 for a group of Soviet oilmen, Alekperov was asked to select the delegation, and he selected himself to lead it.
 Rondo Fehlberg, an executive at BP at the time, told me in a phone interview that Alekperov took control of the agenda during that 1990 trip, sternly asking the BP executives to explain how a modern oil company should be set up. The visitors from Moscow were skeptical when Fehlberg took them to a BP oil field that, by Soviet standards, was impossibly clean and quiet. ''They initially refused to believe that oil was being produced there,'' Fehlberg said. ''They thought it was a propaganda effort by the West. We had them put their hands on pipes so they could feel the oil.''
 Fehlberg noticed his visitors engaging in quiet discussions among themselves; it wasn't until years later that he understood their conspiratorial air. Although the Soviet Union was a year from its unexpected death and although other billionaires-to-be were not yet dreaming of the riches they would acquire in the 1990's, Vagit Alekperov was already planning to take charge of the imploding country's prime oil facilities. He was, at the time, earning a monthly salary that would not have bought a business lunch at Claridge's.
 The laws governing the privatization of state assets in the crumbling Soviet Union were quite simple: they hardly existed. In a frank interview last year with Sabrina Tavernise, a reporter for The New York Times working on a PBS documentary, Boris Berezovsky, the oligarch exiled in London, explained how he acquired some of his first holdings: ''The Soviet bureaucrats didn't believe that capitalism would prevail. You would give an official $10,000, and he'd give you the property title. Not for one second did he expect this factory to stay private. He was convinced that the Reds would return and take it back.'' In the same program, Khodorkovsky, weeks before he was arrested, quietly admitted, ''At the time, Russian law allowed us to do things that were unthinkable in the Western business world.''
 Before the Soviet collapse, Khodorkovsky was among a group of strivers who took advantage of Gorbachev-era reforms to set up trading firms that operated, in the eyes of officialdom, as collectives. Khodorkovsky's was called the Center for the Scientific-Technical Creativity of Young People. Its initial activities included computer sales and currency exchange, and its success derived from two factors: Khodorkovsky had one foot in the system, as deputy head of the Communist youth league committee at his university, and he had a brilliant business mind.
 In contrast to these young protocapitalists, another group emerged, known as ''red directors,'' bureaucrats like Alekperov who used their positions of influence, as members of the Soviet nomenklatura, to take control of enterprises they were running when the system fell apart and everything was up for grabs. After returning from his trip to Britain and with the Soviet collapse nearing, Alekperov began laying the groundwork to create a vertical oil firm -- one that finds, extracts, refines and sells oil. Those responsibilities were separated in the Soviet system, and it was an inspiration on Alekperov's part to realize that it was important not just to privatize the oil industry but to do so in a fashion that created financially sustainable enterprises. In a nod to this innovation, his semiofficial biography is entitled ''Vertical.''
 Lukoil was created by an 11th-hour resolution of the Council of Ministers in November 1991, just weeks before the Soviet Union was dissolved. The company combined three of the largest fields of the Soviet oil industry -- Langepas, Urai and Kogalym -- as well as several refineries, and its name derives from the first letter of each field. Alekperov, stepping down from his evaporating job as acting Soviet oil minister, became president and chairman of Lukoil.
And who owned Lukoil? The answer was simple: nobody and everybody. Like other enterprises carved out of the Soviet industrial base, Lukoil became the property of the Russian government. In 1993, the government converted it into a stock company and vouchers were distributed to Lukoil's employees, among others. Throughout Russia, vouchers were thought, by the workers who possessed them, to be practically worthless. When shadowy financial firms began offering to buy the vouchers, most workers sold, eagerly; they were poor and needed the cash and had no idea that in many cases the financial firms they sold their vouchers to were owned by managers of the companies they worked for. The managers, with a broader view of the companies and the economy, knew the vouchers were in fact quite valuable. Still, it is not known exactly how Alekperov amassed his 10.4 percent stake, nor when he acquired it or the sum he paid for it. ''I certainly don't know how it was done,'' Mobius said. ''I don't think anybody knows.'' 
 It wasn't until 2002, when Lukoil shares began trading on the London Stock Exchange, that Alekperov publicly disclosed how much of Lukoil he owned. Many financial analysts were surprised not by how big his stake was, but by how small. Khodorkovsky, after all, owns more than a third of Yukos, and Roman Abramovich, who last year purchased the Chelsea soccer team in London, is reported to own nearly half of Sibneft, another oil company. Instead of elbowing out rivals in Khodorkovsky's uninhibited fashion -- on one occasion, Khodorkovsky reportedly moved a shareholder meeting to a new location secretly and at the last minute so that minority shareholders would not be present to vote against the dilution of their holdings -- Alekperov shared ownership with a larger pool of managers, bureaucrats, investors and workers. ''He was more civilized,'' observed one Western investment banker I spoke to in Moscow. ''Because he was the first, perhaps he didn't realize he could take it all.''
 Khodorkovsky, by contrast, tended to take it all. The crime for which he is now being tried was a relatively minor one, but it is typical. In 1994, the prosecution claims, a firm controlled by Khodorkovsky and several associates acquired a 20 percent stake in a large fertilizer company, Apatit, for $225,000 in cash and a promise to invest $283 million. The stake was bought at an auction, and there were four bids -- all tendered by front companies controlled by Khodorkovsky, according to the prosecution. Khodorkovsky and his associates won the auction at a price that would have been a great bargain even if they had remembered to invest the promised $283 million, which, according to the prosecution, they neglected to do. In court in mid-July, Khodorkovsky denied the accusations, saying, ''These charges are just as absurd in terms of the law as they are in terms of common sense.''
 The Apatit deal was a modest transaction compared with the biggest and most controversial transfer of state assets into the hands of oligarchs. In 1995, Yeltsin faced defeat to a Communist candidate in pending national elections, and he needed the support of the oligarchs, who were already quite wealthy and powerful. Yeltsin and the young reformers around him concocted a back-room deal that became known as ''loans for shares.'' Chrystia Freeland, a journalist and author of an authoritative book about that era, described it as a Faustian bargain. ''At heart,'' she wrote, ''the loans-for-shares deal was a crude trade of property for political support. In exchange for some of Russia's most valuable companies, a group of businessmen -- the oligarchs -- threw their political muscle behind the Kremlin.'' The decision, Freeland concluded, ''meant pawning Russia's crown jewels.''
 Yegor Gaidar, the economist who initiated the first wave of changes under Yeltsin, says now that the slaying of one monster -- the specter of a Communist return -- created a new one. ''To some degree the oligarchs regarded themselves as the real government of Russia,'' he told me, ''and to some degree they were the real government. They could easily dismiss ministers and nominate people who would be loyal to them in ministerial positions.''
 In July 2000, Putin, who took power when Yeltsin resigned on New Year's Eve 1999, convened a now-famous meeting at the Kremlin in which he told the oligarchs that they could hold onto their shadily acquired businesses but would no longer be permitted to meddle in politics. ''The vast majority agreed, and they are still wealthy and influential, with connections to various levels of the government,'' Gaidar noted. ''Some disagreed in an open way.'' 
 Vagit Alekperov was not one of those who offered objections. 
 ''We at Lukoil know how to act in our limits,'' Valery Greifer, chairman of Lukoil and a confidant of Alekperov's, told me. ''Khodorkovsky didn't know the limits. He didn't realize that when power went from Yeltsin to Putin, things had changed. A lot had changed.''
The defining feature of Putin's tenure has been his war against the oligarchs, and that war's centerpiece is the trial of Khodorkovsky, who made the mistake last year of opposing legislation to raise corporate taxes and compounded the error by financing the anti-Putin opposition in the run-up to parliamentary and presidential elections. It was an all-or-nothing gamble, and in October, when Khodorkovsky's private jet landed at a Siberian airstrip, paramilitary officers stormed aboard and arrested him. Now the richest inmate in Russia, he shares a cell in Moscow with two men; prison regulations allow one shower per week.
 It is the trial of the new century in Russia, and the principal defense lawyer is Anton Drel, who met me at one of Khodorkovsky's mansions; this one was used primarily for meetings and receptions. We sipped espressos in the mansion's cafe under stained-glass decorations as Drel, in a pinstripe suit, carefully said that although Khodorkovsky might have done some of what he is said to have done, it wasn't illegal. ''Everything he did was according to the law,'' Drel explained. ''Khodorkovsky talks about his moral guilt but not criminal guilt. The legislation covering privatization was not ideal, of course.''
 Drel and the lawyers working with him are having a hard time making their case. Tax authorities have not only raided Khodorkovsky's offices on multiple occasions; they raided Drel's office, too. His jailhouse consultations with Khodorkovsky are monitored by a video camera, and Drel believes the room is bugged. Lawyer and client exchange cryptic notes on a legal pad, writing messages filled with code words, then flashing the messages to each other and scribbling them out. ''It is like in the movies,'' Drel noted dryly. 
 Khodorkovsky has issued several letters of apology for the manner in which he amassed his fortune. He even has called on Russians to support Putin. This has been interpreted as an attempt to gain Putin's favor, because the trial is unlikely to be determined by the facts or the court's interpretation of them but by a behind-the-scenes judgment by Vladimir Putin. It is a situation that keeps all of the oligarchs off balance. Because most of them (and probably all of them) acquired state assets in ways that were highly questionable -- though winked at at the time -- every billionaire knows that Putin could now, at his discretion, reach back into their history and pull out criminal, civil or tax charges that would send them to jail or into bankruptcy. 
 Putin's mandate is strong: in March, he was re-elected with more than 70 percent of the vote. It was a notable achievement, even considering his nearly complete control of television news and his crackdown on Khodorkovsky, which deprived the opposition of a major benefactor and scared others away. Ordinary Russians rewarded Putin for bringing a sense of stability to their lives after the chaos of the Yeltsin era; most Russians don't seem to mind the erosion of civil liberties or the war in Chechnya or the murders of 14 journalists since 2000 (including, most recently, the American Paul Klebnikov, editor of the Russian edition of Forbes) or the fact that evening news programs now tend to lead with a story about whatever Putin did that day.
 But as political scientists will tell you, concentration of power is rarely a good thing in the long run. The underlying problem is that one man or one institution, operating in an environment of intimidating power, is more prone to error than a panoply of men and institutions operating in an open system. Democracy, in the economic and political spheres, is not just a theoretical good; checks and balances and laws that are fairly enforced have the effect of preventing the arrogance and error of absolute power.
 So far, however, Putin has ruled as if political liberties were a hindrance to getting Russia off its back. On issues of politics and security, he is very much in the iron-fisted mold, surrounding himself with dour advisers who worked in military or intelligence posts during the Soviet era -- the so-called siloviki, many of them colleagues from Putin's pre-presidential career in the K.G.B. In an unusual acknowledgment of the thuggish climate, a Russian trade official, Dmitry Beskurnikov, during negotiations in July with William Lash, an assistant United States commerce secretary, explained, ''People that don't understand the rules get killed.'' According to Lash, who later told reporters of the exchange, Lash asked Beskurnikov whether he meant that rule-breakers would face financial disaster. Beskurnikov clarified: ''No, physically killed.''
 Putin's economic team is much more friendly to Western ways than his national-security team is. His senior economic adviser, Andrei Illarionov, is an enthusiast for the works of Ayn Rand (who was born in St. Petersburg) and gave Putin a collection of her works. Illarionov is so enamored with free trade that he has described the Kyoto Protocol, which would limit greenhouse emissions, as an ''international Auschwitz'' against economic growth; his views would make Jack Kemp blush. Putin doesn't love capitalism for its own sake, but he believes a strong economy is Russia's best hope for regaining a measure of greatness; capitalism, for him, is the economic means to a political end.
 In Moscow, the man with the best answers to the riddle of Putin is Christof Ruehl, until recently the chief economist at the World Bank's Russian office. I caught up with Ruehl at a conference on liberal economics at a Marriott hotel on Tverskaya, the city's main shopping boulevard, and I asked for his opinion of Putin's economic reforms. 
 ''Really, Putin has done a lot of things exactly as I would have done,'' Ruehl said. ''What worries me is that I cannot find an example of somebody with his concentration of power who used it for the best. He has created this enormous sense of stability, which is so important, but in doing it, he has created a structure that has never been used in a good way. I am racking my brain and cannot find a historic example of someone who had this power and used it for good.''
Innovative tycoons -- whether of the Rockefeller, Hearst, Turner or Gates varieties -- tend to be as reckless as they are brilliant, taking huge gambles that are pursued with a zeal that borders on the insane. So it is not altogether a surprise that the oligarch who possesses the greatest amount of this entrepreneurial right stuff is the one who is in jail.
 Khodorkovsky was rapacious in assembling his oil empire, but when he completed that task by the end of the 1990's he switched gears, focusing his energy and cleverness on running it in an efficient manner. This was born of pragmatism: he knew that if he continued to commit the moral crimes he has confessed to, investors would stay away from Yukos. With Russian markets stabilizing under Putin, it had become possible to make more money by raising the share value of a company than by stealing from it.
 So he turned Yukos into a world-class company, reversing the hallowed Communist practice of institutionalized sloth. Cruel as the Soviet system was, it had a soft spot: you could be incompetent or drunk or asleep on the job, but you would not be fired. Capitalism is crueler in the sense that it encourages managers to show no mercy when the time comes to fire or demote workers for the sake of efficiency. Khodorkovsky was merciless. Inept managers were let go, drunks were fired -- Khodorkovsky required weekly updates on the number of dismissed alcoholics -- and old wells were shut. He brought into Yukos the best executives he could find, including several Americans. Yukos's output and profitability soared as the firm became the most transparent and well-run enterprise in Russia. The market rejoiced, and Khodorkovsky became the country's richest man. If Yukos's figures are believed, it briefly surpassed Lukoil as the largest oil producer in Russia.
 Since Khodorkovsky's arrest, the share price of Yukos has plummeted, and the company, facing a $3.4 billion tax bill for 2000 alone and billions more, potentially, for subsequent years, is on the brink of bankruptcy. Khodorkovsky confronts dire financial straits personally, too: in addition to a potential 10-year jail sentence, he faces a $700 million personal tax bill. 
 It seems Putin's goal is not only to sideline Khodorkovsky but also to gain some control over Yukos itself. In late July, the government took steps aimed at confiscating the company's largest oil asset as payment for the huge tax bill. If successful, the confiscation would serve as a double warning to oligarchs -- not only do they risk arrest or exile for displeasing the Kremlin; they risk losing their entire fortunes. Even foreign investors, who have looked warmly on Putin's moves against the oligarchs, are growing worried about the president's long reach.
 That is why it is the politically cautious billionaires who are doing quite well these days. Alekperov, like Putin and unlike Khodorkovsky, was a product of the Soviet nomenklatura, and he shows signs of vestigial Soviet behavior. When he travels abroad, I was told by one of his aides, he always meets Russian ambassadors in the countries he visits. Government contacts of this sort are useful for any executive from any country, but Alekperov goes further than most. The Russian government owns a 7.6 percent stake in Lukoil, although Alekperov says it is planning to sell those holdings. In a vivid sign of the tight relationship between company and state, when Alekperov visited one of Lukoil's gas stations in Manhattan last year, Putin was at his side, eating a Krispy Kreme donut.
 Many financial analysts see Lukoil's global projects and ambitions as uneconomical, more likely to bring prestige to Lukoil -- and to Russia -- than to generate corporate profits. Alekperov, who says the international projects will be profitable, has a hard time imagining any relationship with the government other than a close one. ''It is impossible to divide the interest of a country and a company that works on its soil,'' he said. ''Our interests are the same. What's good for Russia is good for the company.''
The curious thing for Russia's billionaires in the post-Yeltsin era is that they must answer to two masters, not one. In addition to Putin, there is the market, and Alekperov has attracted the unwanted attentions of Russia's most aggressive shareholder activist, William Browder, an American-born capitalist with the intensity of a Bolshevik intellectual and a tendency to talk so fast that he doesn't speak so much as he verbally scrolls.
 As a young banker, Browder found his way to Russia in the early 1990's and did so well for Salomon Brothers that he set up his own fund, Hermitage Capital Management, which now controls more than $1.5billion in assets; it is Russia's largest investment fund. Browder plays tennis at one of Moscow's best private clubs, dines at the finest restaurants and possesses a delightfully ironic decoration in his office -- an oil painting of Lenin at the Finland Station, his arm waving toward the future. The painting is a nod at Browder's unusual pedigree: his grandfather was Earl Browder, the head of the American Communist Party during the Stalinist era.
 On a rainy April afternoon I visited Browder's office, which is in one of Moscow's newest luxury towers. Lenin stared from the wall as Browder led me through a report he was preparing for investors. Its draft title (later toned down) was ''Lukoil: Hollow Promises, Wasted Value,'' and at its core was the ungentle suggestion that last year Alekperov's company had more than $1 billion in ''forgone revenues'' -- a euphemism for money lost through corruption or ineptitude. 
 Browder has filed shareholder lawsuits against nearly a dozen Russian companies, including Gazprom, the natural-gas monopoly, and UES, the electricity monopoly; much of the time he loses, but he causes enough trouble to force shareholder-friendly changes. He has begun taking shots at Lukoil. He drew my attention to Page 15 of the report, which says Lukoil has 160 daughter companies and 600 affiliates -- a complex structure that creates a screen behind which managers, if so inclined, can siphon off revenues. ''The way they go about doing their business is very murky and untransparent,'' he observed.
 Browder has crunched Lukoil's numbers and come up with figures that show the company's oil output has grown far more slowly than that of its major Russian competitors, that its production per well also lags behind the industry norm and that its net income, on a per-barrel basis, is nearly 50 percent less than that of Yukos. Lukoil officials contend, however, that the company's higher costs are due, in part, to their international projects, which they say are long-term investments. And the slow growth in production stems from a desire, Lukoil officials claim, to avoid depleting their reserves. 
 The upshot is that Lukoil's stock price has been less buoyant than it could be. Paradoxically, no one has suffered more from this than the man who is most likely the firm's largest individual shareholder, Alekperov. But this is where another oddity of the moment surfaces -- the headstrong impulses that bring trouble to billionaires in Putin's Russia also happen to be the impulses required to reshape a monolith like Lukoil. Two years ago, Alekperov began a restructuring and cost-cutting program, but many financial analysts dismiss it as ineffective. Alekperov, they say, is insufficiently aggressive in carrying it out; he doesn't have the go-for-broke instinct of Khodorkovsky.
 A sour expression crossed Alekperov's face when, in his office, I mentioned that Khodorkovsky had become popular among investors by cutting Yukos's costs; it was as if a crate of rotting fish had been dropped on the glass table between us. ''What do you mean by lower costs?'' he asked. ''Not to pay taxes? Of course that would change a company's balance sheet, but we have chosen a different way. During these years, Lukoil and Surgut'' -- a smaller oil firm -- ''have paid more taxes than all other companies. This is the truth.''
 It is, yet it doesn't mean Lukoil is better managed. When I raised the subject of corruption -- Browder's other big complaint -- Alekperov seemed slightly exasperated, as if nobody understood how hard he was trying or how much he had done. ''Corruption exists in all companies,'' he mumbled. ''The question is how to fight against it. We are fighting against corruption. Independent experts analyze all our reports and books. You can find examples of corruption in the West as well. You should evaluate a company by its actions but not by its location.''
 He has a point -- Enron, Tyco and Worldcom all managed to be corrupt and inefficient thousands of miles from Moscow. But even those companies are relatively small fish in the vast American economy. The concentration of wealth in Russia means that an Enron-style fiasco would rattle the entire country.
The sleek jet was perched on the runway like a snow leopard waiting to pounce. As the pilot went through a final checklist, an attractive stewardess stored away the helpings of caviar and sturgeon that would be served, once airborne, on fine china. The cabin of the $30 million Falcon 900, one of several executive jets in Lukoil's fleet, was outfitted with plush leather seats and cream-colored couches.
 I had arrived at Lukoil's hangar at Sheremetevo Airport in Moscow a half hour before Alekperov, who traveled there in his armored convoy, which had a police escort, as it often does. After the cabin door was closed behind him, the plane took off and we soared over Moscow, heading south to Azerbaijan. No one even loosened a tie. Alekperov sat at a small table and pored over reports with several aides; one of them showed me Alekperov's daily digest, an assemblage of news stories and production figures that is more than 45 pages long. It was nearly an hour before the reports were put aside and the culinary delicacies were placed, feastlike, on the table.
 Our destination was Baku, where Alekperov was born and reared, and this was a homecoming of sorts. The jet descended through the clouds and cruised above a patchwork of offshore rigs in the Caspian before skimming over an apocalyptic onshore field composed of withered rigs and ponds of stagnant oil. Alekperov peered intently through a cabin window as if he was seeing it for the first time. I asked why he was so attentive to what was just another stretch of rigs; he has seen tens of thousands in his lifetime.
 ''I used to work there,'' he began, displaying, unusually, a storyteller's interest in his tale. ''That was the place where I first worked in the oil industry. I felt it was my calling. When I graduated from university, it was an honor to be an oilman. You can feel it in Baku. It's a city for oilmen, like Houston. Oil is everywhere.''
 Alekperov was smiling. When he began in the oil business, he was a nobody from a country of nobodies. Yet he had become one of the richest men in Russia, the negotiating partner to chief executives and ministers in whatever country he visited. When his Falcon touched down in Baku, the head of the country's state-owned oil company was on hand to greet him, and the two sped off, with a police escort, to meet Azerbaijan's president. After that, Alekperov went to Lukoil's local headquarters, an attractive building in the center of town, and received, like a sultan, a succession of ministers.
 Between meetings, I spoke with him in a reception room that had on its walls vintage maps of the Caspian basin, which is where, at the turn of the 20th century, the Nobel brothers and the Rothschild family learned that it was possible to earn a king's ransom in the oil business. Those tycoons were interested in whatever made money, but Alekperov has been more focused: he is interested in oil, only oil.
 ''My mission,'' he said, ''is to show the world that Lukoil is as important as all other big oil companies, equal to them in the global market.'' He did not smile and impatiently tapped a finger on an armrest. ''My company is the first to break the attitude that a Russian company is second-rate,'' he continued. ''I have felt this responsibility for my entire life.''
 His boastfulness about equaling the West, his pride in Lukoil's global reach, his loyalty to the ruler of his country -- it is reminiscent of another time, before decay and chaos brought the Soviet Union to its knees. In the 1960's and 70's, Alekperov's formative years, there was no shortage of believers in the Soviet dream, and Alekperov was among them. His reluctance to fire or demote in the manner of Khodorkovsky, and in the manner desired by foreign investors, is an almost endearing holdover from those times, when it was acceptable to imprison a man for reading Solzhenitsyn but inconceivable to fire him for sleeping on the job.
 Many of Alekperov's aspirations -- and Putin's, for that matter -- are rooted in Soviet notions of national greatness, although the nation, in the present case, is Russia, not the Soviet Union. The question of whether it can overcome its terrible past will depend, to an extent, on whether Putin and billionaires like Alekperov can overcome their pasts, too. History, like oil, is not a curse unless it is made into one.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A board meeting at Lukoil corporate headquarters in Moscow. The company president, Vagit Alekperov, sits at center.
Inside a Lukoil facility in Azerbaijan. The company controls almost as much oil as Exxon Mobil.
The Bibi-Eibat oil fields in Baku, Azerbaijan. Alekperov describes Baku, his hometown, as ''a city for oilmen, like Houston.''
An example of the new go-along, get-along Russian oligarch, Alekperov was acting energy minister when the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991
 today, he makes certain not to get in the Kremlin's way. (Photographs by Thomas Dworzak) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (94%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (83%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICS (74%); BAIL (73%); ARRESTS (70%); BRIBERY (64%); ARMED FORCES (61%); AIR FORCES (61%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Biographical Information; Politics and Government 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (84%); BOEING CO (52%); OAO LUKOIL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Lukoil; Yukos (Russian Co)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); LKOH (RTS) (51%); LKOD (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: VAGIT ALEKPEROV (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); BORIS BEREZOVSKY (58%) Peter Maass; Vagit Alekperov; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Mikhail Khodorkovsky

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



51 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: On the Waterfront in Brooklyn

 BODY:
One of Mayor Bloomberg's great obsessions is promoting more housing, and one of the most intriguing projects he is championing is the rewriting of zoning codes on the city's waterfront areas to allow more residential construction. Some of his projects in Manhattan have gotten caught up in larger issues like downtown redevelopment or the ill-advised stadium on the West Side. But the situation in Brooklyn seems more promising. The mayor's plan is a smart one that deserves support, as long as what gets built includes a large number of housing units for low- and middle-income residents.
 Everybody understands the need. The city gained about a half million residents in the last decade but only 85,000 new houses and apartments. Studies show that almost half of renters pay more than 30 percent of their income for shelter, putting them above the maximum that is generally considered affordable. About one-fourth pay more than half their income. City workers like firefighters and police officers, who are required to live in the city, can't find housing that they can afford on city salaries as working class neighborhoods are swallowed, block by block, by more affluent residents. 
 It's a familiar situation, and right now it is threatening longtime residents of neighborhoods like Greenpoint and Williamsburg in North Brooklyn, which have for generations been home to working families -- Polish, Italian and more recently Hispanic. The area has also become a destination for artists, and professionals in search of more space than they could afford across the river. It's the right target for more housing development, especially since it has a long waterfront that is currently underused, with empty warehouses and factories, including the Domino sugar plant, that are legacies of an industrial past. 
 The city's development plan involves rezoning the waterfront to allow for the construction of high-rise apartments on a new esplanade. Forty-nine acres in the area would become much-needed parks. The mixed-use, low-rise flavor of inland blocks would be retained. The vision seems great, but the city needs to make sure it isn't limited to wealthy newcomers. At least 20 percent of the units ought to be reserved for low- or moderate-income families. 
 One solution, proposed by Councilman David Yassky, would give development rights only to builders who commit to including moderately priced units. Developers might be inspired to build more and the city would gain without having to pay extra subsidies that could further strain the budget. Mr. Yassky's idea could work, and could be applied to other areas marked for similar rezoning, including projects in Long Island City and Jamaica in Queens and Hunts Point and Port Morris in the Bronx. The city is considering a less ambitious version of the proposal, and the administration and Mr. Yassky may eventually have to compromise on how many lower-priced units would be required.
 Mayor Bloomberg's focus on housing is commendable, and he has already put together the most ambitious city plan in two decades, which aims ultimately to build or rehabilitate 65,000 units within financial reach of working class families. So far, work is under way on 10,000 of those, half of them new, the city says. But the city government, strapped for cash and limited in its ability to borrow money, can only do so much. The need far outstrips the government's resources, particularly given the sunset of the Mitchell-Lama program, which used to keep a ceiling on housing costs for thousands in the city. The waterfront projects offer a real opportunity to enlist the crucial help of private builders, so that in New York the term affordable housing doesn't become an oxymoron. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An editorial last Sunday stated incorrectly that city police and firefighters must be city residents. There is no such requirement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); SUGAR MFG (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Housing; Editorials; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Brooklyn (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



52 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Switching Gears To Growth From Cutbacks

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
Many corporate leaders are trying to reignite growth in their companies. Yet they often face barriers in doing so, according to Mike Brewster, leader of the organic growth practice at Marakon Associates, a management consulting firm. Following are excerpts from a conversation:

Q. Is growth suddenly hot again?

A. It's clearly come back into vogue as a topic after a few years of focus on cost reduction and focus on mergers and acquisitions.

Q. Why is achieving organic growth so hard?

A. If you look at the failure rates of innovation at consumer-oriented companies, you see how hard it is to come up with genuinely new ideas. For a lot of companies, it's hard to control because they depend on intermediaries like retailers, who have become increasingly fickle and demanding of many of their suppliers. It's also hard because competitors are fiercely eroding your advantage wherever they see it. The rate of copying of innovation is rapidly increasing.

Q. If a company has been in a defensive cost-cutting position and wants to go on the offensive, what has to change in its culture or leadership?

A. A fair amount. When you look at companies that are good at growing organically, there are a number of things they're very good at. They've got to be really good at understanding what their consumers need and want, and more specifically, building an understanding not just of what consumers say they want but what consumers actually buy. We call that the integration of consumer attitudes, consumer behaviors and consumer economics. A lot of companies know one of those dimensions but not the other two.

Q. They also have to risk capital, right?

A. Yes, investing in growth in the short term is hard. Growth hits the profit-and-loss statement in the short term. There's always going to be a trade-off between investing now and the performance that's required to meet external expectations.

Q. Which American companies have done well in going for growth?

A. Companies like Procter & Gamble are a case in point. The transformation they've gone through is from being a company that was trying to grow on many fronts to a company that has narrowed down to build on its core brand propositions. They're getting greater focus on the way they invest for growth. They're also seeking to create a greater culture of growth inside the organization, largely focused on innovation.

Q. Who else is doing well promoting growth?

A. At 3M, Jim McNerney has been trying to focus the organization. It has the opposite problem that a company like P.&G. has because 3M has too many innovations. He wants them to focus on a few big innovations so that they can get the biggest bang for their buck.

Q. Which companies are not succeeding with growth?

A. Hewlett-Packard has struggled to get it right since the merger with Compaq in a difficult environment. The major airlines also have struggled to get growth out of their businesses. It's not just that the industries they are in are difficult. In both computing and airlines, there are exemplars who are delivering great organic growth. Compare H-P with Dell. And in airlines, compare United and American with Southwest.

Q. What specific internal skills must a company have to grow?

A. Being able to stay close to the customer and getting great customer insight is hard at large organizations. Staying close to the customer gets delegated to the marketing department or gets delegated to the sales department. Slowly, the ethos of focusing on the customer gets detached from the company's strategy process.

Q. Can the ways companies organize themselves hurt growth?

A. Yes, organizational structures in many companies create blind spots to growth. Growth lies in between the cracks in the structure and is therefore difficult to get at.

Q. What's an example of a blind spot?

A. A lot of financial-services organizations have broken up retail businesses into the mass market versus the affluent segment. They've broken up product offerings into deposits, checking accounts, credit cards and so on. Yet all banks have been seeking to maximize their share of the customer's wallet. There's one customer out there and one customer's wallet. Yet the organizational structure of banks breaks that wallet up. That creates opportunities for banks that combine those dimensions. Wells Fargo is a good example. They've come in with offers that mimic the way customers think about their wallets and get more organic growth. They've produced new bundles of products.

Q. Have the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other new regulations discouraged innovation?

A. They have certainly shifted attention toward corporate governance, controls, risk management and so on. To some degree, that attention has probably come at the expense of great execution on organic growth. But companies tend to be risk averse, and some of that precedes Sarbanes-Oxley.

Q. Many people who have risen to power at companies have been oriented toward control. Does that discourage growth?

A. There is a mindset challenge involved in getting growth. Some companies see themselves as being in a mature market with limited growth horizons. But as John Sunderland, chairman of Cadbury Schweppes, puts it, ''There's no such thing as mature markets. There are only mature management teams.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Armchair M.B.A. column last Sunday, about a return to corporate growth after years of cutbacks, misstated the surname of the Marakon Associates consultant in charge of the firm's organic growth practice. He is Mike Baxter, not Brewster. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MERGERS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); RETAILERS (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (56%) Corporations

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Chief Executive (Magazine); Marakon Associates

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (50%) William H Holstein; Mike Brewster

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004



53 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: RAMIFICATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Few Larger Questions Beyond the Where and How

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The extraordinary and alarming specificity of the latest terror alert -- different in kind than all that have come before it since Sept. 11, 2001 -- poses new and heightened challenges for a government in the midst of a contested national election, and for a public both inured to the probability of further attack and profoundly unsure of what to do about it.
 ''We're not going to let threats or this kind of information turn us into Fortress America,'' Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, said on Sunday as he raised the threat level for the financial sector in New York, northern New Jersey and Washington. ''We're going to keep on being America.''
 But what kind of country has America already become in this strange and episodic semi-war? One that just escaped a week of the Democratic National Convention in Boston unscathed, or one that must yet fear the worst when the Republicans gather in New York at the end of the month? One that is safer for being forewarned, or more at risk for unknown months to come? 
 There is no ready answer, no simple response.
 For all its frightening precision -- a possible truck or car bomb at the New York Stock Exchange or Citigroup in Manhattan, the headquarters of Prudential Financial in Newark and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank here -- the warning means one thing for the thousands of people who work in those buildings or live near them, quite another for the millions more who live in the same region, and still another for the rest of the nation.
 ''If there's a plane on the way, or a bomb outside, I'm not going to go into it,'' Thomas Schwartz, 20, in Washington for a job interview, said as he walked by the White House, just blocks from the World Bank, where police cars with flashing lights stood like silent sentinels. ''But I'm not going to be changing my lifestyle or sweating bullets for terrorists. That's what they want.''
 A show of similar bravado led the New York Stock Exchange to announce that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg would ring the opening bell on Monday, and all the threatened institutions urged their employees to come to work, promising stepped-up but unspecified security measures. ''You should go about your business,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 In one sense, such advice is obvious. But in ways that are harder to measure, it may not be easy to follow. In recent months, as Mr. Ridge's periodic warnings bounced back and forth from orange to yellow without a new attack, some commentators found the whole scheme easy to mock. Earlier, internal warnings to police departments about possible instruments of terror (crop-dusting planes, scuba gear) or about targets themselves (strip malls, the Golden Gate Bridge) invariably seeped out, again without disaster in their wake.
 But Mr. Ridge's personal and public warning, delivered Sunday to television audiences in the midst of baseball games and other national pastimes, seemed an altogether different matter, even for the vast majority of Americans who would not be affected in immediate or concrete ways.
 ''Outside of New York and Washington, this is a national problem and not a personal problem,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press here. ''When terrorist warnings are elevated, people understandably react to them, but not to the point of paralysis. However, I wonder what will happen if there's a continuing drumbeat about an attack before the election.''
 That is a possibility that might play out at many levels.
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, doubtless spoke for much of official Washington and the public when he said on ''Late Edition'' on CNN that he doubted President Bush or Mr. Ridge ''would raise an alert level and scare people for political reasons.''
 But in a larger sense, a big part of the current election is a real and sharp debate about how best to respond to the threat of terrorism in a post-Sept. 11 world, and whether Mr. Bush has made the nation safer or more at risk through his actions. The commission on the Sept. 11 attacks recently questioned the utility of declaring war on terror without also addressing the causes of poverty, anti-Americanism and violent fundamentalism in the Muslim world.
 In that debate, Mr. Ridge, the former Republican governor of the vital swing state of Pennsylvania, did not shrink Sunday from taking a side.
 ''We must understand that the kind of information available to us today is the result of the president's leadership in the war against terror,'' Mr. Ridge said. ''The reports that have led to this alert are the result of offensive military operations overseas, as well as strong partnerships with our allies around the world such as Pakistan. Such operations and partnerships give us insight into the enemy so we can better target our defensive measures here and away from home.''
 The alert, and the intelligence that prompted it, puts the Bush administration in a bind. If the administration had such specific warnings of possible attack and failed to share them, it would be fairly accused of withholding vital information from the public. But the mere revelation of the new threat also serves to underscore the administration's contention that it has yet to finish the job against Al Qaeda and its ilk.
 One member of the Sept. 11 commission, former Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, now president of the New School University in Manhattan, said the warning should spur Congress and the president ''to put a line in the Department of Defense budget that is just for New York City, before they ever get to how much to appropriate for homeland security.''
 For the rest of the nation, Mr. Kerrey added: ''After a while, you've got to live. You can't let these moments cause you to run aground and run away. You just can't. We've just got to stay calm and continue our lives. Enough is enough.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers watched vehicles yesterday at a checkpoint near the New York Stock Exchange, which was said to be a possible terrorist target. (Photo by Tina Fineberg/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLICE FORCES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (62%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (53%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (53%); SCUBA DIVING (50%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); PRU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) Todd S Purdum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New Jersey; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



54 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Recent Layoff Rate Was Highest Since Early 1980's
Layoffs occurred at the second-fastest rate on record during the first three years of the Bush administration, a government report has found.
 In the government's latest survey of how frequently workers are permanently dismissed from their jobs, the layoff rate reached 8.7 percent of all adult jobholders, or 11.4 million men and women age 20 or older. That is nearly equal to the 9 percent rate for the 1981-1983 period, which included the steepest contraction in the economy since the Great Depression. [Page C2.]

Inventing a Way to Walk on Water
Yoav Rosen has received a patent for an invention that he says will allow ordinary people to walk on water. It is an idea that has held fascination throughout history. For example, Leonardo da Vinci made a drawing, left, of a device that operated on a principal similar to cross-country skiing. Mr. Rosen's invention involves pontoons that are tethered together so the user's legs will not spread apart while walking. Patents. [C2.]

Travelocity Regains Strength
Travelocity, the once profitable -- and dominant -- online travel agency that lost its market position to Expedia, announced late last month that it had again reached profitability after two years in the red. Analysts said that while a rejuvenated Travelocity may not quickly challenge Expedia for market supremacy, it is far better positioned now for success. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C5.]

Affordable Jukebox on the Move
In its relentless push to add features to cellphones, the wireless industry is preparing to make affordable new phones that can store and play full-length downloaded music tracks. Motorola's announcement last week that it is working with Apple Computer to make phones that can store and play iTunes music tracks is the first major indication that the convergence of the portable music player and the inexpensive cellphone is finally upon us. [C4.]

A New Frontier for Hackers
It may be only a matter of time before malicious attacks on Internet phones increase, as more companies start digital phone systems and merge them with their data networks. [C4.]

Film Producer Goes Behind Camera
At age 33, Matthew Vaughn has already made two movies, ''Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'' and ''Snatch,'' that helped define a new genre, the hip British gangster flick. ''Layer Cake'' (promotional ad, above), which is set for release in Britain this fall, is his debut as a director. [C8.]

HBOS Considers a Bid for Abbey
HBOS, Britain's fourth-largest bank, said it was considering making a bid for Abbey National. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,139.71 up 177.49Nasdaq composite -- 1,887.36 up 38.2710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.47% up 0.04The euro -- $1.2020 down 0.0084The dollar -- 111.22 yen up 1.13Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Construction Spending since December.June figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: Unch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (87%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (86%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PATENTS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); INTERNET AUDIO (68%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (68%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (65%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); SANTANDER UK PLC (50%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



55 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Iraqi Insurgents Attack Christian Minority
Assailants, in the first significant attacks against the Christian minority, staged a series of coordinated car bombings near four churches in Baghdad and another in Mosul in the north. In Baghdad, at least 11 people, including 2 children, were killed, and at least 20 people were wounded. One person died in the Mosul attack, and 7 people were wounded. A1

The military's Special Operations Forces, which played a pivotal role in toppling the Taliban government in Afghanistan and in capturing Saddam Hussein, are now grappling with proposals to give them an expanded and more complex mission in the global campaign against terrorism. A6

Iran Accepting Transsexuals
The Islamic government in Iran, after decades of repression, is recognizing that some people want to change their sex and is allowing them to have operations and obtain new birth certificates. A3

Growing Rifts in Fatah
Gunmen loyal to Yasir Arafat fired into the air to disrupt a political conference arranged by members of Mr. Arafat's Fatah movement. No one was hurt in the incident. Afterward, those involved described it as a misunderstanding. In the past few weeks, militants have carried out attacks and kidnappings directed against the Mr. Arafat's Palestinian Authority and security forces. A4

French Detainees Jailed
A judge ordered four French citizens to be kept in jail, who were returned to France after more than two years at the United States military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. French authorities struggled for months to secure their release and are still negotiating the return of three other Frenchmen held at Guantanamo. A3

Sudan Rejects U.N. Deadline
The Sudanese cabinet condemned the 30-day deadline for action on the crisis in Darfur set by the United Nations Security Council, but said it would carry out a 90-day program agreed to earlier with Secretary General Kofi Annan. If Sudan fails to meet the 30-day deadline, the United Nations may consider economic and diplomatic penalties. A3

Drug Link to Colombia Chief
A recently declassified American intelligence report from 1991 says that President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia, now a staunch ally in Washington's war against drug trafficking, was at that time a close associate of a powerful drug lord and an ardent ally of the cocaine traffickers then engulfing the country. A6

Fire Kills Hundreds in Paraguay
At least 283 people died and hundreds more were injured in a fire that swept through a crowded supermarket on the outskirts of Asuncion, the Paraguayan capital. Hundreds of customers and employees scrambled to flee the building but were trapped inside because the doors had been locked, apparently to prevent theft. A6

NATIONAL A10-15

U.S. Warns of Attack On Financial Institutions
The Bush administration declared a high risk of terrorist attacks against financial institutions in the New York City and Washington areas after receiving information that operatives for Al Qaeda had conducted detailed reconnaissance missions at certain sites. A1

New York City, New Jersey and major financial institutions in the metropolitan area stepped up security to the highest levels since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. A11

The unannounced capture of a figure from Al Qaeda in Pakistan several weeks ago led the Central Intelligence Agency to the rich lode of information that prompted the terror alert on Sunday, senior American officials said. The figure, Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, was described by a Pakistani intelligence official as a 25-year-old computer engineer. A1

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said federal authorities believed that terrorist plotters were intending to use a car or truck bomb, the most reliable and still one of the most deadly weapons in the improvised arsenal of Al Qaeda. A13

John Kerry was reminded about how the fear of another terrorist attack on American soil had shaped his campaign. The most pivotal thing that could happen between now and Election Day is beyond the control of either presidential campaign. A1

Nourishing Japanese Roots
As Japan's exports and culture gain global influence, many young Japanese-Americans say they are looking at what it means to be Japanese-American. Central to the group's pride is surviving and thriving after the indignities of World War II. A1

F.B.I. Agent Blows Whistle
Mike German, a veteran FBI agent, is the latest in a string of F.B.I. whistle-blowers who say they were retaliated against after voicing concerns about how management issues had impeded terrorism investigations since the Sept. 11 attacks. He left the bureau in mid-June after 16 years and is now going public. A15

Ralph Nader Soldiers On
While Ralph Nader, who does not concede that he has little chance of winning the presidency, prepares for battles ahead, several Democrats are organizing an extensive, well-financed national campaign against him. They are aided by some former associates and supporters of Mr. Nader. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Rain Causes Floods; Parts of Erie Canal Closed
Persistent rain in central New York has flooded parts of the Erie Canal and the adjoining farmlands, so the state has closed a 50-mile stretch from Lyons to Baldwinsville, stranding scores of boaters. Officials with the 363-mile canal, which links the Great Lakes with the Atlantic Ocean and was completed in 1825, say the section might be closed for a week or more, depending on the weather. B6

Saving the Trees
Invasive vines that are killing trees along Westchester County's highways have become the kudzu of the North. But the state has a plan to save them. B1

Smuggling Trial for Writer
A writer who went to Iraq last year to get information to update a book he had written about rebuilding the country will go to trial in New York accused of smuggling three 4,000-year-old cylindrical marble and alabaster stone seals that had been part of a collection at the Iraqi National Museum, which was looted after the fall of Baghdad in April 2003. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Bill Would Benefit Owners
Owners of professional sports teams stand to gain tens of millions of dollars in the values of their franchises thanks to a single sentence buried deep inside a sprawling piece of export-tax legislation under final review by Congress. The bill, which has been approved by both houses, is now before a conference committee, which is working on resolving differences. The final version is expected to be put before both houses in September, when Congress returns from vacation. A1

Singh Wins Buick Open
Vijay Singh defeated John Daly in a playoff to win the Buick Open.
Winning for the fourth time this year, and regaining the top spot on this year's PGA Tour money list, Singh prevailed by one stroke over Daly and by two strokes over Tiger Woods and Carlos Franco. D1

ARTS E1-8

Actors Union Conflict
Members of the Screen Actors Guild have begun legal action against the executive director of their union, Robert Pisano, saying his membership on the board of an online DVD rental company creates a conflict of interest that makes him unable to negotiate on their behalf. E4

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Cable Buyout May Be Near
Cox Enterprises, the privately held parent of the cable giant Cox Communications, is planning to make an $8 billion offer to buy out the public minority shareholders in its cable business, the company said in a letter to its board. C1

A Battle at RedEnvelope
RedEnvelope Inc. is in the middle of a boardroom feud that pits its co-founder, Scott Galloway, against one of Silicon Valley's most powerful venture capitalists, Michael Moritz. The battle will come to a head at the shareholders. C1

Publish Till You Drop
Confronted by an advertising recovery that seems to be skipping magazines, publishers see shopping magazines as a low-risk, cheaper alternative to investing in less product-oriented titles. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B7

Lilian Moore
A writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, she was 95. B7

Irvin Yeaworth Jr.
A movie director most famous for the 1958 cult classic ''The Blob,'' he was 78. B7

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Last chance for inclusion in Iraq; mutiny in the House; nature besieged; taking back the prisons.

Column: Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E7
TV Listings E8
Crossword E7
Weather D10


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); AL FATAH (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (85%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TALIBAN (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PRISONS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); COCAINE (61%); DRUG POLICY (61%); JUDGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); ALVARO URIBE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SUDAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); PARAGUAY (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (90%); CUBA (86%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



56 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Cap Haitien Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Five Months After Aristide, Mayhem Rules the Streets

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAMBER

DATELINE: CAP HAITIEN, Haiti, July 27 

 BODY:
The two police officers stood in front of this impoverished city's central police station and recounted their grievances: they had no guns, no police cars and no radios. They said they were reduced to sporadic patrols in a stolen truck they had impounded. ''We're like dead men on vacation,'' one said.
 The other said their cars and guns were in the hands of the rebel force that swept through Cap Haitien on Feb. 22, as the revolt that led to the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide reached its height. About a mile away, in the courtyard of an ancient military jail where the rebels are now based, their supreme leader, Michel Dieuseul, who goes by the name Commandant Mano, denied that his men possessed police weapons and vehicles. ''When we attacked, the police took their guns and ran away -- they are hiding them,'' he said, as about a dozen rebels lounged near what looked suspiciously like a police truck with its markings removed. 
 In fact, he says, it is really the violent supporters of Mr. Aristide, known as the chimeres, that need to be disarmed, not the rebels. ''We will work together with the U.N. to disarm the chimeres,'' he said.
 As the charges and suspicions filter through the city like the sticky summer air, though, one thing is certain -- mayhem is reaching ever higher levels, with murders, rapes and bus robberies becoming routine.
 In the five months since Mr. Aristide was driven from power, a tense inertia has spread over efforts to police this shattered society, allowing armed factions and marauders to move in. Despite the United Nations peacekeeping force of 2,300 soldiers spread across the country, and despite a surface quiet in major public places, any number of groups are vying for street control -- the old guard police, the rebels, the Aristide supporters and freelance thugs. 
 Prime Minister Gerard Latortue and his caretaker government, backed by the peacekeepers, are focused on setting conditions for elections in 2005, attracting foreign investment and aid, and trying to restore a semblance of normality so that rebuilding can go forward.
 But by all accounts, the often precarious sense of safety in Haiti is taking a beating, and nowhere is this more evident than here in Cap Haitien, the country's second-largest city, where the rebel breakthrough in February brought chaos and hastened Mr. Aristide's downfall. 
 Crime statistics in this city of 500,000 are unreliable. The police have no finger-printing equipment, much less computers, and records are kept in a battered brown ledger. But four days of interviews with residents and United Nations and local officials provide a picture of an anxious and violent city with weapons caches and a barely functioning police department. The disarming of the population, an oft-expressed goal, is at best a distant concept.
 Security experts working for nongovernmental organizations say four residents were killed here during one recent week, and a United Nations official confirmed that there had been three recent vigilante killings. By all accounts, roads outside the city that lead to the Dominican border are controlled by armed gangs that rob and rape passengers on buses filled with traders.
 ''They rob the buses every Monday and every Friday, the days the border is open,'' said Sejour Ellison, a police officer who told of being a passenger on a bus two weeks ago that was diverted by bandits into a remote field. ''They made us lie on the ground. They took our money and jewelry. I watched as they raped two women in front of me.'' 
 The police blame the crime wave on their rivals, the rebel forces who according to nearly all observers freed 186 prisoners from the penitentiary here when they attacked in February. ''They were mostly professional criminals; now they are controlling gangs,'' said Taillefer Ismaille, the ranking police officer at the patched-up city jail on a recent afternoon. ''So far we have only recaptured two or three.'' Commandant Mano denies the accusation, saying the prisoners ''let themselves out'' after his rebels attacked.
 In late June, Amnesty International released a scathing report accusing the interim government and an initial peacekeeping force of American marines, who left to make way for the United Nations force, of failing to implement security and disarmament measures. 
 Pierre Esperance, director of the National Coalition for Haitian Rights, echoed the criticism in Cap Haitien this week. ''The security situation in Cap Haitien is getting worse, and I do not see a plan from the government to fix it,'' he said. As for the peacekeepers, he said, ''I do not see them doing anything at all.''
 The United Nations has several hundred peacekeepers stationed outside Cap Haitien, and they occasionally roll through the crowded streets in personnel carriers or trucks. On Monday, five United Nations police officers arrived as the vanguard of a new deployment that is hoped to eventually reach 150 officers. 
 A senior United Nations official with the police contingent, who insisted on anonymity, said: ''We're walking on eggs here. The rebels have the support of the population.'' They cannot be easily demobilized, he explained, while the police, with whom the United Nations is supposed to work, are seen as tainted by their ties to the former government.
 Toussaint Kongo-Doudou, chief of communications and public information for the United Nations peacekeepers here, defended them. ''We don't have a civil war,'' he said. ''All the shooting after the departure of Aristide has stopped.'' The force, now at one-third strength, is expected to grow to 6,700 soldiers, he said. Talks with the government about a national committee for disarmament have begun, he said, though it may take months to set up.
 Meanwhile, increasing numbers of former Haitian soldiers are coming forward, and many of them hope the Haitian government and the United Nations will offer back pay in exchange for their weapons. The rebel camp in Cap Haitien has 300 people, almost entirely former Haitian Army soldiers who were disbanded by Mr. Aristide in the 1990's. Commandant Mano sees the rebels as paving the way for the current government, and he clearly expects some reward. ''I want the Haitian government to pay me 10 years and 7 months of back salary,'' he said. But as far as disarming goes, he said, the government can forget about it. ''We are the Haitian Army now,'' he said. 
 Likely to be even harder to deal with are the chimeres, who have gone underground and lack a clear command structure. Credible reports suggest they have several hundred automatic weapons stashed around the city.
 The slum Shara 2, a dense warren of sewage-strewn passageways lined with malnourished children and unemployed men loitering in the stifling heat, is a known chimere stronghold, a place where nearly everyone says they are waiting for Mr. Aristide's return, however unlikely. 
 In a recent interview in Shara 2, a group of young men dismissed talk of disarmament. ''The chimeres are not going to give their guns away, because they don't know what the other side is going to do,'' said one, Jackie Digoirand. ''If a person has three guns, he might give up one and keep the other two.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebel soldiers at their headquarters in Cap Haitien, Haiti's second-largest city. The rebels, whose uprising led to the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide this year, are demanding to become the country's army. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)Map of Haiti highlighting Cap Haitien: Violent crime has become routine in Cap Haitien, a city of 500,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COUPS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (87%); FIREARMS (78%); ROBBERY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); MURDER (77%); VEHICLE THEFT (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); INWARD INVESTMENT (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); STATISTICS (60%); CRIME STATISTICS (50%) Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat ; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Elections; Freedom and Human Rights; Foreign Investments; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%) United Nations; Amnesty International

PERSON: Michael Kamber; Jean-Bertrand (Pres) Aristide; Gerard (Prime Min) Latortue

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Haiti; Haiti

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



57 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: INTELLIGENCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Captured Qaeda Figure Led Way To Information Behind Warning

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL and DAVID ROHDE; Douglas Jehl reported from Washington for this article, and David Rohde from Karachi, Pakistan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The unannounced capture of a figure from Al Qaeda in Pakistan several weeks ago led the Central Intelligence Agency to the rich lode of information that prompted the terror alert on Sunday, according to senior American officials.
 The figure, Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, was described by a Pakistani intelligence official as a 25-year-old computer engineer, arrested July 13, who had used and helped to operate a secret Qaeda communications system where information was transferred via coded messages.
 A senior United States official would not confirm or deny that Mr. Khan had been the Qaeda figure whose capture led to the information. But the official said ''documentary evidence'' found after the capture had demonstrated in extraordinary detail that Qaeda members had for years conducted sophisticated and extensive reconnaissance of the financial institutions cited in the warnings on Sunday. 
 One senior American intelligence official said the information was more detailed and precise than any he had seen during his 24-year career in intelligence work. A second senior American official said it had provided a new window into the methods, content and distribution of Qaeda communications.
 ''This, for us, is a potential treasure trove,'' said a third senior American official, an intelligence expert, at a briefing for reporters on Sunday afternoon.
 The documentary evidence, whose contents were reported urgently to Washington on Friday afternoon, immediately elevated the significance of other intelligence information gathered in recent weeks that had already been regarded as highly troubling, senior American intelligence officials said. Much of that information had come from Qaeda detainees in Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia as well as Pakistan, and some had also pointed to a possible attack on financial institutions, senior American intelligence officials said. 
 The American officials said the new evidence had been obtained only after the capture of the Qaeda figure. Among other things, they said, it demonstrated that Qaeda plotters had begun casing the buildings in New York, Newark and Washington even before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 Among the questions the plotters sought to answer, senior American intelligence officials said, were how best to gain access to the targeted buildings; how many people might be at the sites at different hours and on different days of the week; whether a hijacked oil tanker truck could serve as an effective weapon; and how large an explosive device might be required to bring the buildings down.
 The American officials would say only that the Qaeda figure whose capture had led to the discovery of the documentary evidence had been captured with the help of the C.I.A. Though Pakistan announced the arrest last week of a Qaeda member, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, a Tanzanian wanted in connection with the bombings of American embassies in East Africa in 1998, the American officials suggested that he had not been the source of the new threat information.
 An account provided by a Pakistani intelligence official made clear that the crucial capture in recent weeks had been that of Mr. Khan, who is also known as Abu Talha. The intelligence official provided information describing Mr. Khan as having assisted in evaluating potential American and Western targets for terrorist attacks, and as being representative of a ''new Al Qaeda.''
 The Pakistani official described Mr. Khan as a fluent English speaker who had told investigators that he had visited the United States, Britain, Germany and other countries. Mr. Khan was one of thousands of Pakistani militants who trained in Afghanistan under the Taliban in the 1990's, the Pakistani official said.
 If indeed Mr. Khan was the man whose arrest led the C.I.A. to new evidence, his role as a kind of clearinghouse of Qaeda communications, as described by the Pakistani intelligence official, could have made him a vital source of information. Since his arrest, Mr. Khan has described an elaborate communications system that involves the use of high and low technology, the Pakistani official said.
 The question of how much to rely on information obtained from captured foes has always weighed on the intelligence business. In recent weeks, even as they cited accounts from some captured Qaeda members as the basis for new concerns about terrorism, American intelligence officials have acknowledged that another captured Qaeda figure, Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, had recanted claims that Iraq had provided training in illicit weapons to Qaeda members.
 Mr. Libi's earlier claims had been the primary basis for assertions by President Bush and his top advisers that Iraq had provided training in ''poisons and gases'' to Qaeda members.
 In explaining the decision to call a new terror alert, American officials would say only that the evidence obtained by the C.I.A. after the arrest of the Qaeda figure in Pakistan had provided a richer, more credible source of intelligence than could have been provided by any single individual. They declined to say whether the ''documentary evidence'' included physical documents or might also include electronic information stored on computers, like copies of e-mail communications.
 The Qaeda communications system that Mr. Khan used and helped operate relied on Web sites and e-mail addresses in Turkey, Nigeria and the northwestern tribal areas of Pakistan, according to the information provided by a Pakistani intelligence official. 
 The official said Mr. Khan had told investigators that couriers carried handwritten messages or computer disks from senior Qaeda leaders hiding in isolated border areas to hard-line religious schools in Pakistan's Northwest Frontier Province. 
 Other couriers then ferried them to Mr. Khan on the other side of the country in the eastern city of Lahore, and the computer expert then posted the messages in code on Web sites or relayed them electronically, the Pakistani official said.
 Mr. Khan had told investigators that most of Al Qaeda's communications were now done through the Internet, the official said. After a message was sent and read by the recipient, the entire communication and related files were deleted to maintain secrecy, he said. Mr. Khan had told investigators that e-mail addresses were generally not used more than a few times.
 The young computer engineer, who received a bachelor's degree from a university in Karachi, is the unemployed son of an employee of Pakistan's state airline and a college botany professor, the official said. Heavily built and 6 feet 2 inches tall, he speaks English with a British accent, and was arrested carrying a fake Pakistani identification card. 
 The Pakistani official said Mr. Khan told investigators that he had received 25 days of training at a militant camp in Afghanistan in June 1998. By the time Mr. Khan had risen to his current position, the official said, Qaeda figures had arranged his marriage and were paying him $170 a month for rent for his house in Lahore and $90 for expenses.
 Mr. Khan was in contact with the brother of the Indonesian Qaeda leader Hambali, who was studying in a religious school in Karachi, and who was deported in December 2003. Mr. Khan has told interrogators that his Qaeda handler was a Pakistani he knew as Adil or Imran, who assigned him tasks related to computer work, Web design and managing the handler's messages. His correspondents included a Saudi-based Yemeni, Egyptian and Palestinian nationals and Arabs in unknown locations, and someone described as the ''in-charge'' in the city of Khost in eastern Afghanistan.
 Asked about the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, Mr. Khan has told interrogators that even the top Qaeda commanders do not know, the Pakistani intelligence official said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland security, yesterday after announcing the elevated terror alert. (Photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (59%) Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Hijacking; Terrorism; Citigroup Center (NYC); Prudential Headquarters (Newark, NJ); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Central Intelligence Agency; New York Stock Exchange; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Douglas Jehl; David Rohde; Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (72%) Pakistan; Afghanistan; Saudi Arabia; Washington (DC); New York City; Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



58 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Layoff Rate at 8.7%, Highest Since 80's 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Layoffs occurred at the second-fastest rate on record during the first three years of the Bush administration, a government report has found.
 In the government's latest survey of how frequently workers are permanently dismissed from their jobs, the layoff rate reached 8.7 percent of all adult jobholders, or 11.4 million men and women age 20 or older. That is nearly equal to the 9 percent rate for the 1981-1983 period, which included the steepest contraction in the American economy since the Great Depression.
 Recession and weak economic growth characterized most of the period from 2001 to 2003, and millions of jobs disappeared. But while layoffs normally rise in hard times and fall in prosperous years, the new survey published Friday by the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics added to the statistical evidence that layoffs are more frequent now, in both good times and bad, than they were in similar cycles a decade ago. 
 The anecdotal evidence is abundant on this point, but the statistical evidence is only beginning to tell the same story. ''It appears there is more displacement now; this latest number is quite high,'' said Henry S. Farber, a Princeton University labor economist who has challenged the anecdotal evidence, wondering whether it overstated the case.
 The layoff rate over the last three years, for example, was greater than in the 1990-1991 recession, the displacement survey found. The rate was also higher in the late 1990's boom years than in the late 1980's, a parallel period of strong economic growth.
 ''No one should be surprised by the increasing frequency of layoffs,'' said James Glassman, senior United States economist for J.P. Morgan Chase. ''It is the echo of globalization. Companies are shifting production around more frequently to take advantage of low-cost centers.''
 A Bush administration spokeswoman, Claire Buchan, asked for comment, responded with a statement that focused on the surge in job creation in recent months and made no mention of the worker displacement report. A Kerry campaign economist, Jason Furman, said the survey showed that jobs in America were increasingly insecure. 
 While job displacement has gradually increased during the 23 years covered by the surveys, the unemployment rate has trended down. For some labor economists -- Mr. Farber and Jared Bernstein at the Economic Policy Institute, for example -- that makes the rising layoff rate even more striking.
 ''If you plot the displacement rate in relation to the unemployment rate, it is a staircase going up,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''You are more likely to be laid off now than in similar levels of unemployment in the past.'' 
 The falling unemployment rate also suggests that most job losers are re-employed relatively soon, and that is borne out by the surveys. In each of the surveys, about two-thirds of those who said they had lost jobs over the previous three years also said they were working again at the time of the survey. The percentage was even higher -- 10 points higher -- in the tight labor markets of the late 1990's.
 Pay is another matter. In the latest survey, 56.9 percent of those who said they were re-employed also said they were earning less in their new jobs than in the jobs they had lost. That compared with 46.6 percent from 1991 through 1993, a similar period of recession followed by weak recovery, and 42.2 percent from 1997 through 1999, which were boom years. 
 The worker displacement survey has been conducted in January or February of each even-numbered year since 1984. The members of 60,000 households, a cross section of the population, are asked if they lost a job at any time in the previous three years because a factory or company closed, there was insufficient work or the position they occupied was abolished. A ''yes'' answer meant the job was permanently gone, without prospect of recall. 
 President Reagan instituted the job displacement survey in response to grumbling from Congress as layoffs surged. The surveys initially focused on workers who were laid off after holding a job for at least three years. These ''long-tenured'' workers still get a lot of attention in the biennial reports; 5.3 million were displaced in the 2001-2003 period, or 6.3 percent of all workers age 20 or older with at least three years of tenure. 
 The 6.3 percent was the highest layoff rate on record for long-tenured workers, slightly above the 6.2 percent in the 1981-1983 period. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); DISMISSALS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (62%) Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hiring and Promotion; Labor

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%) Bureau of Labor Statistics; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) Louis Uchitelle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



59 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: COMMERCE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Threats Are Seen as Another Dark Spot for U.S. Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The new specific threats on financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington are an added negative for a stock market that has been laboring under a cloud since February, when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index hit its high for the year, several market analysts said last night.
 Despite earnings growth of more than 20 percent reported so far for the second quarter and a steady economic growth, they noted, the three main stock indexes are still near their lows for the year. In addition, a Commerce Department report on Friday that the economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, down from 4.5 percent in the first quarter, has added another concern for investors. 
 ''This is not good for the U.S. market,'' said William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics in Boston. Stocks have been lower because investors have been afraid of terrorism, he said. ''While these warnings are troublesome, it is not an attack. I don't think this will cause the market to spiral out of control.''
 In trading in the futures market last night, the three main United States stock market indexes were lower but not off sharply. In Asian markets in early-morning trading, the Nikkei 225 index in Japan was down nearly 100 points, or 0.87 percent, while the Heng Seng index in Hong Kong was up nearly 60 points, or about 0.5 percent.
 As for other markets, the dollar was slightly lower against the euro and the yen and the price of the 10-year Treasury note was slightly higher. Bonds today in the United States could get a lift if investors look to the Treasury market as a safe harbor. But because the Federal Reserve is expected to continue to raise interest rates over the next year, there may not be much of a rush to the bond market.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed Friday at 10,139.71, just 233 points, or 2.3 percent from its 2004 low of 9,906.91 on May 17. The Nasdaq composite, which closed at 1,887.36 Friday, hit 1,839.02 on July 26, its lowest close since October 2003. The S.&P. 500-stock index is just 18 points above its 2004 low.
 Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Capital, predicted the new threat ''would cause the stock market to decline in early trading Monday.''
 ''It means that anything we had planned to do Monday will wait so we can try to understand what is going on,'' Mr. Johnson added. ''And I expect others will do the same.''
 Although no one can predict what will happen with the threat, he said that ''we do know that if there is a terrorist attack it can disrupt the economy and the markets.''
 Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Banc of America Securities, said the more specific threat comes when ''the market is at a tender stage anyway.''
 ''It's an alert and it's hopefully something we can get though,'' he added. ''But I don't see how the stock market can see this as anything but another nagging negative.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); CURRENCIES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); EURO (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (52%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%) New York City; New Jersey; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



60 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 419 words

PERSON: Lilian Moore

HEADLINE: Lilian Moore, 95, Who Wrote Books for Children, Is Dead

BYLINE: By STUART LAVIETES

 BODY:
Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan. She was 95.
 A longtime resident of New York City, Ms. Moore was an editor at Scholastic when she suggested in 1957 that the company make its books more accessible by offering low-cost paperbacks through the mail; there were few paperback books for children at the time. She became the first editor of Scholastic's Arrow Book Club, a series of inexpensive editions for pupils in the fourth through sixth grades, and the Lucky Book Club, a similar program for younger readers. 
 Seven years later, after her stepson, Richard Moore, returned from a summer of civil-rights work in Mississippi and told her that black children there had no books about their own experience, she helped establish the Council on Interracial Books for Children. The council works to discover and encourage minority writers and to confront stereotypes in books for children.
 Ms. Moore was also a prolific writer of children's books, including ''Old Rosie, the Horse Nobody Understood'' (1960). 
 Her ''Little Raccoon'' series, which is still in print in the United States, was translated into Russian and has sold more than 375,000 copies in Russia.
 Ms. Moore began writing poetry for children in the late 1960's. In books including ''I Thought I Heard the City'' and ''Sam's Place: Poems From the Country,'' she explored her own childhood memories and wrote about the joy of finding beauty in familiar and unexpected places.
 Born Lilian Levenson in the Bronx in 1909 to Yiddish-speaking immigrants from Russia, she graduated from Hunter College in 1930. Unable to find a permanent teaching job during the Depression, she joined the Unemployed Teachers Council and edited its newspaper, The Unemployed Teacher. 
 As a part-time teacher working with truants, she discovered her ability to help children learn to read. She eventually became a reading specialist in the New York City school system and began writing for children soon after, publishing her first stories in Humpty Dumpty's Magazine.
 She is survived by a son from her second marriage, Jonathan Moore of Seattle, and a brother, Milton Levenson of Manhattan. Her third husband, Sam Reavin, died in the early 1990's. Ms. Moore's final books, ''Mural on Second Avenue, and Other City Poems'' and ''Scary Poems,'' will be published posthumously.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Monday about Lilian Moore, a children's author, misstated her role with Scholastic's Lucky Book Club for younger pupils. She was not its first editor; that was the writer and poet Beatrice Schenck de Regniers. (Ms. Moore was, however, the first editor of the company's Arrow Book Club, for pupils in Grades 4 to 6.)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (92%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WRITERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); POETRY (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); STEPPARENTS (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%) Books and Literature; Children and Youth; Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Stuart Lavietes; Lilian Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



61 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Steinbeck Heirs Entangled In an Epic Family Lawsuit

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

 BODY:
''I am choosing to write this book to my sons,'' John Steinbeck wrote. The year was 1951, and the Pulitzer Prize-winning author was drafting a letter about the manuscript that would become ''East of Eden,'' his epic story about family and betrayal.
 ''They are little boys now and they will never know what they came from through me, unless I tell them,'' Steinbeck wrote to Pascal Covici, his longtime friend and editor. ''It is not written for them to read now but when they are grown and the pains and joys have tousled them a little.''
 In the 53 years since, life has indeed tousled the Steinbeck clan. Since John Steinbeck's death in 1968, his heirs have clashed over control of his literary estate and accused one another of betrayal, earning the family some renown in literary and legal circles. The fighting has left the family bitterly divided, in an epic entanglement that draws inevitable snickers that it could have been written by Steinbeck himself. 
 The latest chapter began last month when two heirs, Thomas Steinbeck and Blake Smyle, Steinbeck's son and granddaughter, sued the estate of his third wife, Elaine, and McIntosh & Otis, a New York literary agency that represented Steinbeck. Steinbeck, whose sons were born in his second marriage -- to Gwyndolyn Conger -- and Elaine, who had a daughter from a previous marriage, married in 1950 and had no children of their own. She died in April 2003 at 88.
 In the complaint filed in United States District Court for the Southern District, in Manhattan, Mr. Steinbeck, known as Thom, and Ms. Smyle, the daughter of the writer's younger son, John Steinbeck IV, allege that Mrs. Steinbeck and the agents ''engaged in a 30-year hidden conspiracy to deprive John Steinbeck's blood heirs of their rights in the intellectual properties of John Steinbeck.'' They seek damages of $10 million and $8 million, respectively. John IV, who wrote of his struggles with addiction, died during surgery for a herniated disk in 1991 at 44.
 The roots of the Steinbecks' legal troubles reach back to the will Steinbeck wrote shortly before his death, in which he left most of his estate, valued at over $1 million, to Elaine. To his sons he left $50,000 each. (Steinbeck, renowned for writing about the working class, left a housekeeper $5,000.) He directed future profits from his works, including novels and screenplays, to go to his wife and a lawyer. His will said nothing of copyrights.
 Under copyright law at the time of his death, children and spouses of writers had interests in the renewal of copyrights. In 1981, Steinbeck's sons sued Elaine as the executor of their father's estate, claiming that she had renewed some copyrights in their name, but kept the royalties. The suit was settled in 1983, and the terms of the settlement are sealed.
 When she died last year, Elaine Steinbeck left her estate, including her copyrights of her late husband's works, to two sisters, her daughter and several grandchildren, none of whom are biologically related to the writer. 
 The current suit questions whether Mrs. Steinbeck, who it says was motivated by jealousy of her stepsons, properly exercised renewal rights for her late husband's works, and whether the heirs were properly informed of their interests in those rights. It claims she acted in violation of the 1983 agreement.
 Thomas Steinbeck and Ms. Smyle declined to be interviewed, according to their lawyer, Mark S. Lee of Manatt, Phelps & Phillips in Los Angeles.
 Employees at McIntosh & Otis did not return phone calls. John T. Williams, a lawyer and literary agent and co-editor of ''Perle & Williams on Publishing Law,'' a two-volume encyclopedia of publishing law that includes a section on literary agencies, said the agency was highly regarded.
 The defendants, who include a sister, a daughter and a granddaughter of Elaine Steinbeck, have until this week to file their responses or seek an extension.
 ''The whole story has a tragic arc to it,'' said Jonathan Zittrain, an assistant professor of intellectual property law at Harvard. ''This isn't Disney versus Miramax. These are the heirs to arguably one of America's greatest writers'' fighting over his legacy, he said.
 While the suit involves copyright law, many of Mr. Steinbeck's and Ms. Smyle's allegations were factual in nature -- ''who did what when,'' Mr. Zittrain said. 
 According to the suit, Steinbeck was ''an author or artist who cared little for business matters, including his intellectual property'' and so he neglected to say how his copyrights should pass, a view not shared by all.
 ''I think he wanted to leave them enough so they wouldn't starve, but not so much so they wouldn't have to make lives for themselves,'' said Jackson J. Benson, who spent 13 years researching and writing ''The True Adventures of John Steinbeck, Writer'' (Viking Press 1984, Penguin Group 1990), considered by many the definitive biography of Steinbeck. ''The main thing was he didn't want to screw up the boys' lives by leaving them all that money. Well, the irony is, the boys did go after it.''
 Material wealth, and a lack of it, contributed greatly to Steinbeck's vision as a writer. In stories, the Stanford University-educated writer returned again and again to characters shaped by economic deprivation, at times romanticizing them -- like the well-intentioned ne'er-do-wells in ''Tortilla Flat'' and ''Cannery Row'' -- and at others, laying bare their suffering -- like that of the destitute Oklahomans displaced by the Dust Bowl in ''The Grapes of Wrath'' -- and almost always revealing their dignity.
 After his successes piled up, Steinbeck recalled his lean years in the 1920's in New York City, where he had worked briefly pushing a wheelbarrow on the construction site of Madison Square Garden, and in California.
 ''I had $25 a month and I was one of the rich ones,'' he wrote in 1955 in The New York Times about his life on Cannery Row in Monterey, Calif. ''But it was far from as bad as it sounds. Hamburger was three pounds for a quarter, plate beef 5 cents a pound. For 15 cents you could pick out a bag of 'soup vegetables' that would feed you for a week And then we had the ocean to fall back on.
 ''In our group of denizens, we had no envy for the rich. We didn't know any rich. We thought everyone lived the way we lived, if we thought of it at all.''
 Once Steinbeck experienced financial success, he began worrying about future income, although ''it does seem odd as we read through 'Journal of a Novel' to find a man who buys a piano on impulse also worrying about money,'' Mr. Benson wrote in his biography. 
 Steinbeck had little cause for concern. He won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1962, and even as wide critical acclaim eluded ''East of Eden'' in his lifetime, it generated strong sales and still does, like the other Steinbeck works that have become staples of the classroom.
 Last year, on an episode of ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' dedicated to the novel for Ms. Winfrey's book club, Thom Steinbeck, who published a collection of short stories in 2002, recalled reading ''East of Eden'' for a high school class and getting a D on his book report, much to his father's chagrin.
 ''It scared the pants off me,'' Mr. Steinbeck said of the book, with good and evil themes, that his father wrote to him and his brother. ''I wondered whether he was talking about real demons or whether he was keeping the demons from the door.''
 He added: ''Whether if by discussing these things and bringing them out, he could prevent what he feared might happen to his own family.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elaine Steinbeck, left, in 1998 with a portrait of her late husband. She died last year and her estate is being sued by two of Steinbeck's heirs. Above, John Steinbeck and his two sons, Thomas and John IV, about 1955. John died in 1991. Right, Thomas Steinbeck, known as Thom. (Photo by Kathy Willens/Associated Press)
(Photo by The Center for Steinbeck Studies)
 (Photo by billrichphotography.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COPYRIGHT (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (85%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (77%); DEATHS (74%); WILLS (74%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); DAMAGES (66%); COPYRIGHT LAW (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%) Books and Literature; Copyrights; Suits and Litigation; Wills and Estates; Biographical Information; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: McIntosh & Otis 

PERSON: John (1902-68) Steinbeck; Michelle O'Donnell; Elaine (d2003) Steinbeck; Blake Smyle; Thomas Steinbeck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



62 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: BILL WOULD RAISE FRANCHISE VALUE OF SPORTS TEAMS

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

 BODY:
Owners of professional sports teams stand to gain tens of millions of dollars in the values of their franchises because of a single sentence buried deep in a sprawling piece of export-tax legislation now before Congress.
 The benefit to sports franchises is contained in a small part of an enormous bill introduced originally to settle a trade dispute with the European Union. But the legislation has since become laden with add-ons for interests ranging from tobacco farmers to Oldsmobile dealers.
 The bill, which has been approved by both houses, is expected to go before a conference committee to resolve the differences. The final version is expected to be put before both houses in September, when Congress returns from vacation. 
 The proposed change affecting sports team owners, which has been passed without hearings or debate, would allow the owners to write off the full value of their franchises over 15 years. Existing law generally limits teams to writing off only the value of player contracts over three to five years. The biggest items subject to the expanded write-offs would be television and radio contracts. 
 The benefits would apply to newly acquired assets, so current owners would not actually pocket more money, but they could command higher prices when they sell.
 Two directors at Lehman Brothers, the investment bank, who specialize in sports banking and tax policy said the change could add 5 percent to sports franchise values. If so, it would represent a $2 billion windfall to franchise values, which totaled $41 billion in 2002, according to Forbes magazine.
 ''They're doing very well in this,'' said Robert Willens, a managing director at Lehman Brothers.
 The Jets, who were sold for $635 million in 2000, might be worth an additional $55 million under the proposal, Willens estimated. Robert Caparole, chairman of Game Plan, a Boston investment bank, which has been an adviser on the sale of many professional sports teams, agreed that the change could boost purchase prices.
 The proposed change appeared in separate export-tax measures in the Senate in October and in the House of Representatives in March. The two bodies recently passed markedly different versions of the bill, which grew to 960 pages, but each version has the identical language that is of special interest to owners of professional teams.
 The prime sponsors, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Representative William M. Thomas, Republican of California, did not return telephone and e-mail requests for comment last week. 
 Willens predicted the bill would become law in October.

Benefits for Larger Teams
 Write-offs like those proposed for franchise owners sometimes reduce taxes not only on sports teams but also, in some cases, on owner's other earnings. For example, if Donald Trump bought the Yankees for $1.5 billion, he could deduct about $100 million per year for 15 years on profits not only from the Yankees but from his other companies that made a profit.
 The precise effects of the measure cannot be calculated without knowing each team's financial details and each owner's tax situation. But in general, according to nine professional sport bankers, accountants and lawyers interviewed last week, the new law would be of greatest benefit to sports teams with higher values, longer-term ownership plans, and larger broadcast contracts.
 ''The benefits are going to vary depending on how long you're going to hold the team and the size of the deal,'' said Michael E. Rapkoch, president of Sports Value Consulting in Dallas.
 Shawn McCarthy, director of the League of Fans, a program of the Center for Study of Responsive Law, which was founded by Ralph Nader, said, ''Naturally I'm skeptical when professional sports leagues are lobbying Congress for changes that benefit them financially, especially considering all of the taxpayer handouts these leagues have received over the past 15 or so years.''
 A report by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation says the measure would actually increase taxes for sports owners by $381 million over 10 years. Mark Prater, chief tax counsel for the Senate Finance Committee, said in an e-mail message that the change would also end disputes over allowable write-offs between the teams and the Internal Revenue Service.
 ''There's nothing nefarious about it,'' Prater wrote.
 Rob Vandenheuvel, a spokesman for the House Ways and Means Committee, said the proposal had popped up twice before in other bills ''as a revenue raiser.'' 

Lower Taxes for Owners
 But most of the sports bankers and accountants interviewed said they did not believe sports owners in the long run would pay more taxes under the proposal. 
 Major League Baseball actively lobbied for the change and the National Football League supported it. The National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League were neutral. Willens said he was mystified by the Congressional claim that the measure would raise taxes on sports owners. Robert E. Leib, former lead tax partner in the professional sports industry group at Arthur Andersen, said that claim was misleading. Leib said the proposal would generally lower taxes and raise the capital values of sports franchises, especially in the N.F.L.
 ''The effect will differ franchise to franchise and league to league,'' added Leib, a lawyer and accountant who founded The Leib Group in Wisconsin. He also represented the Boston developer Frank McCourt in his $430 million purchase of the Los Angeles Dodgers this year.
 Leib warned, however, that minor leagues of professional sports may find the new tax rule ''very disadvantageous.'' He said that the minors had virtually no media contracts to figure into the proposed new accounting and that they probably would pay more taxes.
 Owners of professional sports team have been trying for years to persuade the I.R.S. to allow them to amortize their increasingly lucrative media deals, but the I.R.S. has ruled that those are continuing assets, and nondeductible under special tax rules established in 1993 for professional sports.
 The Canadian Press, a news service, has estimated that the average N.F.L. team received $77 million a year from national broadcast rights in 2002. The average in the N.B.A. was $26 million, according to the agency, Major League Baseball teams averaged $12 million and N.H.L. teams averaged $5 million. The bill under consideration would allow them to write off the value of those broadcast rights from their income, while stretching out the write-off on player contracts.

Values Up by 5 Percent
 ''At the end of the day, this should add to the current value of franchises,'' said Aaron Barman, a sports investment banker with the public finance department at Raymond James & Associates. 
 Allen R. Sanderson, associate chairman of the economics department at the University of Chicago, who teaches and writes about sports economics, agreed.
 ''This is clearly something that would benefit them,'' Sanderson said. 
 Willens said the change would add about 5 percent to major league franchise values ''across the board.'' 
 Sal Galatioto, the managing director in charge of Lehman Brothers' sports advisory and finance group, said that the change would lower taxes for most franchises, depending on their size and other factors, and that it would add up to 5 percent in value.
 ''But personally, I don't think it's going to be enough to change someone's determination on whether or not they want to buy one of these things,'' Galatioto added. He is an adviser on the pending sale of the Nets this month and said that the deal should not wait for a possible tax law change in October.
 ''Deals that are done are going to have to close now,'' Galatioto said.

An Expensive Disagreement
 The change also means that owners are certain to save millions of dollars on the teams of lawyers and accountants they have had to hire to battle the I.R.S. in the continuing argument over franchise write-offs.
 When Bud Selig, now commissioner of Major League Baseball, bought a bankrupt Seattle team and moved it to Milwaukee in 1970, he assigned $10.2 million of the $10.8 million price to player contracts and wrote off the salaries. The I.R.S. challenged the move. Selig won the dispute in court, but in 1976 Congress limited player contracts to 50 percent of franchise values.
 In 1993, Congress set a simple 15-year rule for most businesses to write off intangible assets, but it carved out a special exclusion for sports franchises that allows them to more quickly write off player contracts . 
 In 1997, the I.R.S. set up a team of specialists based in Florida to scrutinize a wide range of professional sports' tax claims, especially the write-offs. Audits, appeals and litigation followed.
 An I.R.S. spokesman, Anthony Burke, declined to comment last week on the proposal before Congress.
 ''If it's pending legislation, we don't discuss it,'' he said.
 Congress's stated reason for changing the sports tax law now, in addition to raising taxes, is to end argument between owners and the I.R.S. ''The committee believes expending taxpayer and government resources disputing these items is an unproductive use of economic resources,'' the House report on the legislation says.
 The Senate version of the bill passed by a vote of 92-5 on May 11. The House version, called the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, passed by a vote of 251-178 on June 17, but not before a raucous debate on other special-interest items in the bill.
 Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, called the bill ''a Christmas tree of special interest giveaways.'' 

Some Call It Pork
 Representative Tammy Baldwin, Democrat of Wisconsin, complained, ''Instead of creating jobs, it creates tax cuts for cruise-ship operators, foreign dog-race gamblers, Nascar track owners, whaling tribes, bow-and-arrow makers, Chinese ceiling-fan manufacturers, Oldsmobile dealers, and beer and liquor wholesalers.''
 Republicans disagreed. Representative Thomas, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said the measure would primarily create jobs and incidentally fix some unfair or out-of-date tax laws. 
 ''People deserve a day at least once every 20 years,'' Thomas said in floor debate, ''to try to correct the horrible, horrible condition of many areas of our economy under our current tax code.''
 Nowhere in the hours of debate in the House or the Senate was a word uttered about professional sports franchises.
 Greg Aiello, N.F.L. vice president for public relations, said the sports write-off proposal was not controversial because the government said it would collect more taxes and the I.R.S. and owners would spend less money fighting each other.
 ''It was agreed it makes sense to simplify the code and eliminate all the hassles,'' Aiello said.
 The N.B.A. remained neutral on the bill, said league spokesman Mike Bass, because some N.B.A. owners would benefit from the change, but others would not, because they had larger ratios of player contracts already being written off.
 William H. Schweitzer, a managing partner of the Washington law firm of Baker & Hostetler, promoted the tax change on Capitol Hill for Major League Baseball. Schweitzer said the change would have a slightly positive impact, varying from club to club, by eliminating I.R.S. disputes, without significantly changing taxes. He said baseball had not specifically evaluated how the new tax law would affect franchise values.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The National Football League and Bud Selig, far left, the Major League Baseball commissioner, support a bill that would allow professional sports franchises to have more favorable tax write-offs, particularly for broadcast contracts. Senator Charles E. Grassley is one of the sponsors. (Photos by Above and far left, Associated Press
 left, Willie J. Allen Jr./The New York Times)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (96%); SPORTS & RECREATION (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); APPROVALS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); TOBACCO FARMING (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); DIVESTITURES (65%); FRANCHISING (59%); NEW CAR DEALERS (56%) Taxation; Athletics and Sports; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Franchises; Law and Legislation; Taxation; Taxation

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%) Duff Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



63 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns of High Risk of Qaeda Attack

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU; David Kocieniewski contributed reporting from New Jersey for this article and Richard W. Stevenson from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Sunday declared a high risk of terrorist attacks against financial institutions in the New York City and Washington areas after receiving what it described as alarming information that operatives of Al Qaeda had conducted detailed reconnaissance missions at certain sites.
 Intelligence information gathered and analyzed since Friday, intelligence officials said, indicates that Al Qaeda has moved ahead with plans to use car bombs or other modes of attack against prominent financial institutions, including the New York Stock Exchange and the Citigroup buildings in Manhattan; Prudential Financial in Newark; and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington. There was no indication of when an attack might occur, although federal officials said it would probably be in the ''near term.''
 Intelligence officials said they believed people associated with Al Qaeda had studied these institutions repeatedly both before and since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, collecting detailed information on things like building security measures, architecture, pedestrian traffic, access ways and nearby shops that provided cover. Officials involved with the investigation in New Jersey said suspects were found with blueprints of the Prudential site and may have conducted a ''test run'' for an attack in recent days. 
 In response, the Department of Homeland Security raised the threat level to code orange, or ''high risk,'' for the financial sector in New York City, northern New Jersey and Washington. It was the first time that the color-coded public threat system, often maligned for being too vague, has targeted a specific sector or region. 
 While the administration has issued terrorist warnings from time to time, officials said Sunday's announcement was more dire than in the past because the threat information was highly unusual in its specificity and, in the words of one senior intelligence official, ''chilling in its scope.''
 After past terror warnings, critics have at times accused the Bush administration of exaggerating the threat for political purposes. But on Sunday, few prominent Democrats were making that charge, and many Democrats appeared to take the threat seriously. The code-orange announcement, by Tom Ridge, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, sent immediate tremors through financial, political and law enforcement worlds, with reverberations from Wall Street to the presidential campaign trail. 
 In New York and New Jersey, stepped-up security was expected to complicate the start of the workweek on Monday. Tens of thousands of employees, customers and visitors to Wall Street, Midtown Manhattan and downtown Newark were warned to expect tighter personal screening, closer scrutiny of backpacks and packages, more parking and traffic restrictions and other disruptive precautionary measures. [Page A11.]
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said teams of officers would be posted at ''sensitive and symbolic'' sites throughout New York City, including landmarks, major subway stations and train and bus terminals, and on bridge and tunnel approaches, where trucks and other large vehicles are to be halted at random and searched for explosives.
 In New Jersey, Gov. James E. McGreevey said the state would immediately deploy antiterrorist officers on highways, commuter trains and ferries and begin intense inspections of trucks within 20 miles of the targeted buildings. A thousand state investigators were assigned to work on the case.
 Mr. Ridge said the federal government was working with private financial institutions in New York and Washington and taking steps of its own to intensify security. He also asked for increased public vigilance. 
 ''The quality of this intelligence, based on multiple reporting streams in multiple locations, is rarely seen and it is alarming in both the amount and specificity of the information,'' Mr. Ridge said.
 Unlike last December, when officials raised the threat level to orange because of concerns about international flights over the Christmas and New Year's holidays, intelligence officials said they had no information to conclude an attack was now imminent and no specific indication about when one might be carried out. 
 The elevation of the threat level for the financial institutions was set off by the recent arrest of a Pakistani computer engineer who may have been involved in Qaeda communication efforts. A senior American intelligence official, while not discussing the source of the information, said analysts were reviewing recently discovered documents that amount to ''a potential treasure trove.'' Officials emphasized that the threat information went beyond intelligence ''chatter'' picked up from intercepted communications or Internet traffic, which has formed the basis for past warnings.
 Several episodes in the United States have recently drawn scrutiny from counterterrorism officials, including the apprehension of a Pakistani woman in Texas with a suspicious passport as well as reports from passengers on a recent flight to Los Angeles about odd activity by a group of Syrian musicians. But officials said that neither of these incidents was a direct factor in the decision to go to Code Orange.
 The information uncovered in recent days overlapped with broader concerns that Al Qaeda might plot an attack on or before the Nov. 2 presidential election in an effort to repeat the disruption caused by the Madrid bombings in March. Officials said they believed that senior Qaeda leaders along the Afghan-Pakistani border, including Osama bin Laden, were personally involved in such plots.
 Mr. Ridge said he was concerned that Al Qaeda might seek to attack financial institutions in one of three ways: the physical destruction of a building, an outside cyberattack intended to cripple financial markets or an internal attack that would allow someone within an organization to disrupt its operations. From the intelligence gleaned so far, he said, ''the preferred method of attack or what's being suggested in the reporting is car and truck bombs -- the physical destruction or attempted physical destruction of these facilities.''
 Like the World Trade Center, financial targets like the New York Stock Exchange and the World Bank are seen as attractive to Al Qaeda largely for symbolic reasons in its effort to wage psychological warfare against the United States, officials said.
 ''Even the destruction of a single building is not going to undermine the greatest and strongest economy in the world,'' Mr. Ridge said. ''So, to a certain extent, they are almost iconic. They're visible targets perhaps known around the rest of the world.''
 Officials said they hoped that public scrutiny might help to disrupt a plot, as happened in December 2002, when an alert flight attendant on a trans-Atlantic flight saw Richard Reid trying to light an explosive in his shoe. Or public attention might even prompt terrorist to call off a plot, officials said, as they suspect happened when an Ohio truck driver suspected of surveying the Brooklyn Bridge in 2003 told associates in Pakistan that security was ''too hot.'' 
 Intelligence officials said they were most concerned about what they described as the fresh evidence that Qaeda associates had conducted reconnaissance missions against important financial targets. 
 Al Qaeda is long known to have undertaken surveillance of its potential targets. But intelligence officials said they were struck by the detail in recently uncovered evidence, showing Al Qaeda to be focused, patient, disciplined and committed in its desire to attack prominent American targets.
 A senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there was evidence of reconnaissance missions at all five of the financial institutions cited by the Department of Homeland Security. ''This information is about as specific as you can get,'' the official said. 
 Intelligence officials listed several dozens pieces of information that they said Qaeda operatives had collected in their reconnaissance missions on security procedures and vulnerabilities at financial institutions. These included the flow of pedestrian traffic, possible escape routes, elevator schedules, neighborhood landmarks, the patterns and number of security personnel, details on surveillance cameras and architectural details that would influence how a building might fare in a bombing, officials said.
 ''The new information is chilling in its scope, in its detail, in its breadth,'' said a senior intelligence official, speaking on condition of anonymity. ''It also gives one a sense the same feeling one would have if one found out that somebody broke into your house and over the past several months was taking a lot of details about your place of residence and looking for ways to attack you.''
 Mr. Ridge said he believed toughened federal security measures since the Sept. 11 attacks, including the use of air monitors to detect biological threats, explosive-sniffing dogs, beefed-up undercover and emergency response teams and other measures, have left the country better prepared to defend itself against a possible attack.
 ''These added security measures mean that from curb to the cockpit, at our ports of entry and borders in between, and our public places in cyberspace, on air and land and sea, we are better protected than we ever have been before,'' he said.
 But the final report of the Sept. 11 commission released last month said wide-scale reforms in intelligence-gathering and domestic protection were needed to predict and prevent another attack, and the White House and Congress are grappling with how that might be best accomplished. 
 White House officials said Sunday that President Bush was likely to move ahead on Monday with plans to announce an executive order addressing some of the weaknesses in the nation's defenses identified by the commission. The officials declined to be specific about those plans, but they said Mr. Bush would also respond to the commission's call to create the post of national intelligence director and establish a counterterrorism center within the White House to coordinate the response to threats at home and abroad.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 2 about a government warning that financial institutions in the New York and Washington areas were at high risk for terrorist attacks misstated the year that a trans-Atlantic passenger, Richard C. Reid, tried to light an explosive in his shoe -- a plot that officials believe was foiled by public awareness. It happened in December 2001, not 2002.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A police officer guarded a Citibank building at 54th Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan yesterday. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (Photo by Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
CITIGROUP CENTER (Photo by Ed Bailey/Associated Press)
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
WORLD BANK HEADQUARTERS (Photo by Lauren Burke/Associated Press)
PRUDENTIAL HEADQUARTERS (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press)(pg. A10)Chart: ''Targets of Terrorism''Tom Ridge, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said yesterday that intelligence suggests that Al Qaeda might try to use truck bombs or other means to attack these buildings.New York CityNEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE11 Wall StreetStreets around the building have been closed to traffic and armed police have been in place since 9/11.PEOPLE: 1,500HEIGHT: Not availableFLOORS: 7BUILT: 1903CITIGROUP CENTER153 East 53rd StreetThe company said it has increased security measures because of the new threat, but did not specify how.PEOPLE: Not availableHEIGHT: 915 feetFLOORS: 59BUILT: 1977WashingtonINTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND700 19th Street N.W.Has increased security measures because of the new threat, but did not specify how.PEOPLE: 2,400HEIGHT: Not availableFLOORS: 12BUILT: 1973WORLD BANK HEADQUARTERS1818 H Street N.W.Increased security measures recently to include patrols by two bomb-sniffing dogs.PEOPLE: 7,000HEIGHT: 150 feetFLOORS: 13BUILT: 1997NewarkPRUDENTIAL HEADQUARTERS745 Broad StreetPolice have sealed off a two-block radius and have deployed officers armed with assault rifles.PEOPLE: 1,800HEIGHT: 374 feetFLOORS: 24BUILT: 1960(Sources by Department of Homeland Security
law enforcement officials
Emporis Building Database
 Associated Press)(pg. A10)Maps of New York highlighting the locations of the New York Stock Exchange and Citigroup Center buildings. (pg. A10)Maps of Washington, D.C., highlighting the locations of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank Headquarters buildings. (pg. A10)Map of New Jersey highlighting the location of the Prudential Headquarters building. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Bombs and Explosives; Citigroup Center (NYC); Terrorism; Prudential Building (Newark, NJ); Terrorism

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); New York Stock Exchange; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Homeland Security Department

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Eric Lichtblau; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Washington (DC); Newark (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



64 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: FINANCIAL IMPACT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Al Qaeda Seeks to Disrupt U.S. Economy, Experts Warn

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
The five financial buildings in New York, Washington and Newark singled out as terrorist targets were barricaded yesterday behind fences, flanked by armed police officers and otherwise sealed up. The extra security reflected both the new threats and a growing reality that the country's financial institutions were becoming increasingly attractive targets for terrorist attack.
 Al Qaeda's leaders have spoken more openly in recent months about using terrorist attacks to disrupt the American and world economies, counterterrorism officials and experts said yesterday.
 Since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, Osama bin Laden has implored terrorists on several occasions to strike targets that will harm the economy in the United States and elsewhere. But a man claiming to be Mr. bin Laden went even further in a tape-recorded statement released April 29, saying that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks devastated the American economy and the United States government's budget. For the first time, it appeared, Mr. bin Laden estimated the economic impact by citing specific statistics. 
 ''After the strike of the New York blessed days, thanks to God, their losses exceed a trillion dollars,'' the recording said in assessing the overall damage to the American economy. ''Their budgets have been in deficits for the third year in a row.''
 In recent weeks, on Web sites and in chat rooms connected to Al Qaeda, statements have highlighted the economic impact of past terror strikes, including the train bombings on March 11 in Madrid that killed 191 people.
 One recent Web site message attributed to a Qaeda affiliate hailed the ''disruption'' to the economy of several recent attacks. ''As a result of the blessed strikes in Madrid, for instance, the entire European economy suffered,'' the message read.
 Financial institutions, already under tightened security since the Sept. 11 attacks, were taking additional precautions following yesterday's announcement from Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge warning of terrorist plans to strike the five buildings.
 In Washington, the two institutions identified as targets, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, said they had taken additional security measures, including the addition of two bomb-sniffing dog units to patrol the World Bank. Both institutions are just blocks from the White House.
 At the Newark headquarters of Prudential Financial, identified as another target, police officers armed with assault rifles have been put into place, and a two-block radius around the firm has been sealed off.
 Many financial institutions were reluctant to discuss their security measures, saying that merely to be identified as a potential target might draw attention to them. Others said they were worried that Mr. Ridge had publicly identified this group, rather than warning them in private. Mr. Ridge's public action, they said, could become self-fulfilling, almost daring terrorists to attack.
 ''We don't want to raise our heads, because that could put lives at risk,'' said an official at one financial firm who asked not to be identified.
 Counterterrorism officials and experts said they had noticed a shift in the statements attributed to Al Qaeda's leaders, and their allies, in recent months. They talk less about the symbolism of attacks, and much more about the practical effects, they said. ''An attack on Citibank headquarters in New York would still make a powerful statement, but it would also have huge consequences for the economy,'' one official said.
 The desire by Al Qaeda's leaders to inflict economic damage on the United States, Britain and other Western countries is not a new goal, several officials said yesterday. But the unusual decision by Mr. Ridge to identify five individual buildings that he said were live targets seemed to surprise several counterterrorism officials based in Europe.
 An Arab intelligence official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said intelligence accumulated since even before the Sept. 11 attacks showed that Al Qaeda and its affiliates wanted to attack financial institutions. ''This was not something that was just learned yesterday,'' the official said.
 However, the official said there had been a spike in recent intelligence pointing to financial targets. He said he believed that two banks in New York were specific targets, although he declined to identify them. He also said intelligence showed that Al Qaeda and its affiliates wanted to bomb banks in Britain and Switzerland. ''They don't just want to attack buildings -- they want to attack the financial structure of the United States, Britain and other European countries,'' the official said.
 Since the Sept. 11 attacks, terrorists have struck economic targets numerous times. The October 2002 bombings in Bali were intended to harm the tourist industry. Last November, terrorists bombed the Turkish headquarters of HSBC, the London-based international bank, as part of coordinated attacks in several locations in Istanbul, including the British Consulate, that killed a total of 62 people. And in recent months, terrorists in Saudi Arabia have struck at the infrastructure of the oil industry.
 ''They know they are hitting the Saudi system at its most sensitive points, because of what the price of oil means to the American economy and the world economy,'' Michael Chandler, the former chairman of the United Nations Monitoring Group concerning Al Qaeda, said yesterday. ''They are not stupid, these guys. They have some very good ideas, and they know what will have an impact.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York Stock Exchange is said to be on Al Qaeda's list of potential terror targets. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); DOGS (73%); CHAT ROOMS (65%); FIREARMS (50%) Banks and Banking; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Stocks and Bonds; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) Don Jr Van Natta; Leslie Wayne; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



65 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: All The Pretty Words

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
They were able to sustain the eloquence for most of the week, which had to be a surprise. Bill Clinton told us that ''strength and wisdom are not opposing values.'' Barack Obama called America ''a magical place.'' John Kerry said, ''The high road may be harder, but it leads to a better place.''
 There was no shortage of pretty words and promises at the Democratic National Convention in Boston last week. But there's a big difference between the rigidly crafted reality at the heart of a political campaign and the reality of the rest of the world. 
 ''Practical politics,'' said Henry Adams, ''consists in ignoring facts.''
 The facts facing the United States as George W. Bush and John Kerry joust for the presidency are too grim to be honestly discussed on the stump. No one wants to tell cheering potential voters that the nation has sunk so deep into a hole that it will take decades to extricate it. So the candidates are trying to outdo one another in expressions of sunny optimism.
 President Bush and Dick Cheney deride ''the same old pessimism'' of the Democrats. Mr. Kerry counters by saying to the president, ''Let's be optimists, not just opponents.''
 The voters deserve better in an era of overwhelming problems. Consider Iraq. Neither the president nor Mr. Kerry knows what to do about this terrible misadventure that has cost more than 900 American and thousands of innocent Iraqi lives. The war is draining the U.S. Treasury and has made the Middle East more, not less, unstable. Dreams of democracy taking root in the garden of Baghdad and then spreading like the flowers of spring throughout the Middle East have given way to the awful reality of bombings, kidnappings and beheadings.
 You won't hear straight talk about this all-important matter from either camp. And you can forget the chatter about an exit strategy for American troops. There isn't one.
 Or consider Afghanistan. Not long ago American officials were claiming a decisive victory and the Bush administration was trumpeting the liberation of Afghan women from the clutches of the Taliban. But the proclamations of success were premature. Osama bin Laden and the Taliban leader Mullah Muhammad Omar are nowhere to be found. Warlords and insurgents are in control of much of the country and the growth industry is the opium trade. The extraordinarily courageous group Doctors Without Borders is packing its bags and withdrawing from Afghanistan after 24 years because five of its staff members were murdered and the government will not bring the killers to justice. On Friday the U.S. government warned American citizens against traveling to Afghanistan because of the danger of being kidnapped or killed.
 Some victory.
 Employment here in America is another topic on which the presidential candidates will not tell the voters the cold, hard truth. There are not nearly enough jobs available for the millions upon millions of unemployed and underemployed Americans who want and desperately need gainful employment. The population in need of jobs is expanding daily and no one has a viable plan for accommodating it. Families are being squeezed like Florida oranges as good jobs with good benefits -- health insurance, paid vacations and retirement security -- are going the way of the afternoon newspaper and baseball double-headers.
 These are incredibly difficult issues and an honest search for solutions can only come from a sustained effort by the broadest array of America's brightest and wisest men and women. What the U.S. really needs is leadership that could marshal that effort.
 Unfortunately, we've become a society addicted to the fantasy of a quick fix. We want our solutions encompassed in a sound bite. We want our leaders to manipulate reality to our liking.
 So there was President Bush in a hard-hit industrial region of Ohio over the weekend telling voters, ''The economy is strong and it's getting stronger.'' And the Kerry-Edwards team is assuring one and all that ''help is on the way.''
 The voters may deserve better, but there's a real question about whether they want better. It may well be that candidates can't tell voters the truth and still win. If that's so, then democracy American-style may be a lot more dysfunctional than even the last four years has indicated.

William Safire is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TALIBAN (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); BOMBINGS (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%); OPIUM (50%); RELIGION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); DICK CHENEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (65%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



66 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: A Founder at RedEnvelope Tries to Take Back Control

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
RedEnvelope.com styles itself as the place to find the perfect gift. For the harried business traveler, you can buy a cashmere blindfold and sock set for the plane. For the infant with too many bears and rattles, try the monogrammed baby spa robe.
 The company does not yet have a product section for its directors, but if it did, a sterling silver stiletto might be in order. 
 RedEnvelope Inc. is in the middle of a boardroom feud that pits its co-founder, Scott Galloway, against one of Silicon Valley's most powerful venture capitalists, Michael Moritz. (Mr. Moritz, a partner at Sequoia Capital, is about to make about $3 billion for Sequoia's investors and partners dollars from the public offering of Google.) 
 Mr. Galloway, a director and one of the largest shareholders, has argued that RedEnvelope has lost its way, and he proposed to the board a series of actions that he said would increase its growth.
 Mr. Moritz, the company's chairman, rejected the plan and then reduced the number of directors, eliminating Mr. Galloway's seat. 
 Mr. Galloway responded by forming a dissident shareholder group, which proposed an alternate slate of directors who want to replace RedEnvelope's chief executive, Alison L. May. The battle will come to a head at the shareholders' meeting scheduled for Aug. 27.
 Mr. Galloway, who also started Prophet Brand Strategy, a consulting firm, charges that RedEnvelope has lost nearly all of its executives with experience in merchandising and marketing.
 ''There has been a revolving door,'' he said. 
 Several directors with the most retail experience have left. Earlier this year, Hilary Billings, the company's longtime brand strategist and head merchant, resigned. And Pamela Knox, the senior vice president for marketing, left after eight months.
 The fight at RedEnvelope is the latest in a company that has had an unusual amount of strife and intrigue in its leadership. But it also shows the power struggles that can take place between spunky young entrepreneurs who started companies in the heady days of the late 1990's and the more seasoned financiers and managers whom they brought in to turn their ideas into reality. 
 As business conditions became more difficult after the Internet bubble burst, company founders were often pushed aside. More recently, however, founders of dot-com companies that managed to stay alive have been trying to take back the reins. Mr. Galloway, for example, left RedEnvelope's board in 2000 and rejoined in 2002.
 In some cases, as at Buy.com, the founders have been able to buy back stakes in the companies for fractions of what they originally sold for.
 RedEnvelope is considered successful simply because it has survived when most online retailers have failed. It evolved from Mr. Galloway's original concept of a shopping site for men befuddled by gift-giving called 911gifts.com. The company, which eventually broadened to a higher-end gift merchant with both a Web site and a catalog, went public last September, raising $31 million.
 But its financial success is hardly assured. In 2002, the company bought more merchandise than it could sell for the holiday season. A year later, it bought too little, causing a revenue shortfall and disappointing customers, a problem compounded by expensive shipping delays in its warehouse.
 Now analysts, who had originally seen RedEnvelope as turning profitable this year, do not expect a profit until next year. The company's share price, which has fallen by nearly half since its public offering, closed at $7.53 on Friday on the Nasdaq. 
 Henry Wilder, one of the early venture capital investors in the company, expressed frustration that Mr. Moritz, who has a reputation for being one of Silicon Valley's least sentimental investors, is backing Ms. May despite the company's problems under her leadership. Ms. May joined the company in May 2002 after holding the position of chief operating officer for the Gymboree Corporation, the children's apparel company. 
 ''Sequoia is a tough group,'' Mr. Wilder said. ''They usually don't have any inhibition about changing management.''
 Mr. Moritz, in a telephone interview last week, agreed that he would be quick to change management if needed, but that he believed Ms. May had turned RedEnvelope around.
 ''The company is in better shape today than it has ever been,'' he said, noting that the company's profit margins are increasing and its merchandise mix is improving.
 Mr. Moritz said that Mr. Galloway was impatient. ''We are not about to make the mistake of emulating a crash-and-burn dot-com strategy,'' he said. ''No company in retailing has grown into an overnight success.''
 That is a lesson that Mr. Moritz has learned more painfully than most. He was an investor in eToys and WebVan, two of the most visible online retailers that failed at the end of the dot-com era.
 Mr. Moritz's energy now appears to be aimed at Mr. Galloway. The company has hired Kroll, the investigative firm, to look into Mr. Galloway's affairs. (A company spokesman says Kroll was hired to look at other board members as well.)
 Steve Weinstein, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities, agrees with Mr. Moritz that RedEnvelope is ''now on the right track.''
 He says the company tried to do too much last year, replacing an outside contractor with its own warehouse at the same time that it was conducting its initial public offering. 
 ''The company came right off the road show and changed distribution centers right as they came into the holiday season,'' Mr. Weinstein said. ''They took their eye off the ball.''
 The company's most recent financial performance is a mixed story. In the quarter that ended in June, its sales increased but so did expenses as a result of market research initiatives and efforts to fix its distribution center problems. Over all, the company reported a loss of $952,000 on sales of $21.1 million. For its fiscal year ending in March 2005, the company expects to report a loss of $2 million to $3 million on sales of $94 million to $97 million.
 Mr. Galloway argues that the most important factor differentiating RedEnvelope from the thousands of companies selling gifts -- its merchandise assortment -- has gone flat.
 Claire Gruppo, a former RedEnvelope board member and president of Gruppo Levey and Company, an investment bank that specializes in direct marketing companies, agreed that the merchandise quality appeared to be slipping. 
 ''I think the company has lost a little bit of its original brand focus and edgy merchandise mix,'' she said. Ms. Gruppo is not involved in Mr. Galloway's group. 
 Ms. May, however, counters that RedEnvelope's merchandise assortment is being rapidly revived. The company is now designing most of its products itself and arranging for their manufacture directly. 
 ''We are going to have much better products at much better margins,'' Ms. May said. 
 It is too soon to say how the shareholders will vote. Mr. Galloway's group has only 9 percent of the company's stock. Sequoia by itself has 12 percent. Mr. Galloway says his main appeal to fellow shareholders is purely financial.
 ''This is a stock that should be 30 and is at 7,'' he said, referring to its price in dollars on the Nasdaq. ''I'm not a corporate rights crusader. I'm looking to get rich.''
 If he prevails, RedEnvelope stands ready to sell him a stylish monogrammed money clip.


GRAPHIC: Photos: RedEnvelope's chief, Alison L. May, above, has the support of the company's chairman, Michael Moritz, left, but some shareholders are seeking new leadership. (Photo by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Mitch Tobias)(pg. C4)Graph: ''Losing Ground''RedEnvelope's stock price since it started trading last September.Graph tracks Change in value relative to RedEnvelope's stock price, since October 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Slow Growing Start-Up''Some investors in RedEnvelope are concerned about its relatively slow growth rate compared with its peers.CHANGE IN ANNUAL SALESFor most recent full fiscal yearOverstock.comDiscounted, brandname goods -- 160.2%Blue NileJewelry and watches -- 78.8Design Within ReachModern furniture and accessories -- 41.5Provide CommerceFood and flowers direct from suppliers -- 26.2RedEnvelopeVarious gifts for men and women -- 13.1(Source by Company reports)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (86%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); MEN (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (70%); BRANDING (70%); RETAILERS (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (61%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: REDENVELOPE INC (93%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%); BUY.COM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Redenvelope Inc; Redenvelope Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (93%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (93%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MORITZ (90%) Scott Galloway; Michael Moritz; Alison L May; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



67 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Interim Trade Triumph Short on Hard Details

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: GENEVA, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
By agreeing to the eventual elimination of billions of dollars of farm subsides early Sunday morning, the World Trade Organization began to make good on its insistence that wealthy nations end the dumping of subsidized food on the global market.
 The framework agreement they reached, representing a midway point in talks to change world trade rules, also served as a reminder that multinational organizations can at times be effective. The accord came nearly a year after the spectacular failure of the previous effort in Cancun, Mexico, at a low point in international relations splintered by the Iraq war. Officials are hoping for a successful conclusion in 2006. 
 While there were no Champagne toasts here -- exhausted delegates rushed to their cars, intent on a good night's sleep -- there was a sense of a job well done. Supachai Panitchpakdi, the director general of the World Trade Organization, said this was a ''truly historic'' achievement.
 But in this year of American elections and lingering trans-Atlantic friction, that message was muted by competing interpretations of what this framework agreement would mean for farmers in wealthier as well as poor countries.
 For developing countries that had succeeded in transforming the seemingly dull issue of farm subsidies into an international cause celebre complete with rock-star patronage, it was a moment of triumph. The global campaign -- amplified by the World Bank, the United Nations and the charity Oxfam International -- helped push representatives of the advanced economies to give in to pleas to cut back some of their $300 billion in annual subsidies and supports that have pushed down commodity prices, impoverished farmers in the developing world and prevented them from competing on the world market.
 The European Union agreed unequivocally to eliminate its export subsidies, easily the most detested of all agricultural subsidies. The United States agreed to cut back its export credits, some of its cotton subsidies and to make a 20 percent reduction in some of its $19 billion in subsidies of corn, wheat, rice and soybeans the first year the rules go into effect.
 ''This is the beginning of the end of all subsidies,'' said Celso Amorim, the Brazilian foreign minister, who became a star of the negotiations. ''Export subsidies are now gone, and trade-distorting domestic subsidies are on their way out.''
 Mr. Amorim's influence came from his role as spokesman for a powerful new bloc of developing countries and from the lawsuits Brazil has brought to World Trade Organization tribunals against the United States and the European Union. 
 Those cases, one that led to a ruling against some American cotton subsidies and another pending against European sugar subsidies, helped convince rich countries that the global market was changing quickly, and that farm subsidies that spurred a nation's exports could become a thing of the past even without new trade rules.
 Pascal Lamy, the European Union trade commissioner, agreed. ''Yes, of course, I think it helped,'' Mr. Lamy said, adding, ''Obviously, the U.S. had to give ground on cotton and we have to give ground on sugar.'' 
 But Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, denied that Brazil's suits had any effect on the talks here. 
 That was one of several points where the United States and Europe disagree. Their positions reflected increasingly divergent paths on how to help their farmers, who will have a harder time competing with countries like Brazil and Argentina that do not need to subsidize their own farmers.
 Mr. Zoellick pointedly ignored Mr. Lamy's contention that the United States must eventually follow the European program that is slowly transferring farm subsidies for the production of commodities into subsidies to protect the environment, food security, rural development and animal welfare.
 The Europeans, without the vast national park system of the United States, maintain that they must protect the countryside to preserve their countries' lifestyles, and the tourism trade it attracts. As a result, the European Union has begun promoting such programs even though they may eventually hurt exports.
 The direction of the United States farm policy is less clear but seems headed in the opposite direction. In recent budget cuts, Congress kept in place the subsidies for commodities -- at least a third of that being exports -- and cut money for environmental programs.
 An early effort by Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman to begin changing the direction of subsidies was squashed by Republican leaders in Congress, some of whom successfully bartered their votes to give the president expedited trade authority in return for the 2002 farm bill, which reversed course and increased farm subsidies.
 At a news conference after the talks, Mr. Zoellick made clear that American farmers and their representatives would continue looking to exports as a key to prosperity. Indeed, he said the United States would cut some domestic subsidies by ''up to 50 percent if I get market access.''
 While the accord reached here promised that the largest tariffs would be cut the most, a formula that vastly benefits the United States and was a top priority for Mr. Zoellick, it did not include details on how much tariffs would be reduced. Those negotiations were postponed, as were decisions on the details of tariff cuts on industrial products.
 American political reaction was swift. While Mr. Zoellick praised President Bush for giving him the mandate to reach this accord, Democrats took aim at what was missing from it.
 In e-mail statements, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, said that the accord undermined struggling family farmers, and Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said the agreement lacked any hope for laid-off workers in his state.
 ''In every deal, there are winners and losers,'' Mr. Daschle said. ''In this deal, big agribusiness has won and family farmers in South Dakota and across the country have lost. It appears the Bush administration is selling out our farmers at the negotiating table.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The U.S. negotiator, Robert B. Zoellick, after accord was reached. (Photo by Fabrice Coffrini/Associated Press)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (86%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (78%); COTTON MARKETS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); SUGAR FARMING (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); EXPORT PRICES (68%); LITIGATION (60%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Dumping (Trade Term); Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (78%); PASCAL LAMY (58%) Elizabeth Becker; Robert B (Trade Repr) Zoellick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); MEXICO (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



68 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: SECURITY MEASURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2177 words

HEADLINE: New York, New Jersey and Nation's Capital Step Up Guard at Financial Centers

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN and RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Reporting for this article was contributed by Jason George, David Kocieniewski, Mike McIntire, Colin Moynihan and Leslie Wayne.

 BODY:
New York City, Washington, the State of New Jersey and major financial institutions in Manhattan and northern New Jersey stepped up security yesterday to the highest levels since the terrorist attacks of three years ago after the Bush administration warned of alarming new intelligence reports targeting buildings and organizations at the heart of capitalism in America.
 The warnings of a possible terrorist strike were remarkable for their specificity, naming the New York Stock Exchange, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington and the Citigroup and Prudential Financial buildings in New York and Newark. They also cited plotters with the earmarks of Al Qaeda who, officials said, had engaged in detailed surveillance of their targets and apparently intended to explode truck bombs.
 Officials in New York, Trenton and Washington stressed that nothing was known about the timing of a possible attack, but the Republican National Convention later this month and the national elections in November clearly provided a general time frame that terrorists might seek to exploit. 
 For all the potential dangers, officials sought to keep the threats from undermining public resolve or dealing a blow to the American and global economies. The stock exchange asked Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to ring the opening bell this morning, sending a defiant signal that the hub of the financial markets would keep trading. Citigroup and Prudential Financial said they would be open for business as usual, and employees of the targeted institutions and other people were urged to go about their business. 
 Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey raised the terrorism warning level to orange in the counties closest to Manhattan -- Bergen, Essex, Union, Passaic and Hudson -- and said the state would immediately deploy antiterrorist officers on highways, commuter trains and ferries and begin intense inspections of trucks within 20 miles of the targeted buildings. A thousand state investigators were assigned to work on the case. 
 New York City also responded aggressively, although the terrorism-alert level, which has been at orange, or high, since Sept. 11, 2001, was not changed. 
 ''We are deploying our full array of counterterrorism resources,'' Mayor Bloomberg said yesterday at a briefing called to announce the assignment of special police units and other measures to guard the stock exchange, Citigroup buildings in Midtown Manhattan and Queens and other potential targets. ''We will spare no expense and we will take no chances.'' 
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, who joined Mr. Bloomberg at City Hall, said that trucks would be banned from the Williamsburg Bridge, which links Brooklyn to Lower Manhattan, starting today, to help police concentrate vehicle searches on the nearby Manhattan Bridge. Manhattan-bound trucks will also be diverted from the Holland Tunnel to the Lincoln Tunnel and the George Washington Bridge, where truck searches are to be conducted, officials said. 
 Mr. Kelly said the searches could create substantial traffic delays. 
 Precautions were also being taken in Newark, at the Prudential Financial headquarters, and in Washington, where the headquarters of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, only blocks from the White House, were named as possible targets in what Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland security, called unusually specific and credible intelligence reports from multiple sources.
 In Washington, intensified security spread to Capitol Hill, where the Capitol police increased the number of officers on duty. Washington's police chief, Charles H. Ramsey, said traffic stops to check trucks would be intensified. Firehouses were closed to the public, firefighters' leaves were canceled and emergency units were placed on standby.
 In New York, Commissioner Kelly met with the security directors of 13 major financial institutions last night to discuss security, public and private, and how to coordinate it. Besides the New York Stock Exchange and Citigroup, the institutions included Morgan Stanley, the American Stock Exchange, Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs, Bear Stearns, Wachovia, AIG, MetLife, J.P. Morgan Chase, the Federal Reserve Bank and Nasdaq. 
 The New York Stock Exchange in Lower Manhattan was barricaded and heavily guarded yesterday, as usual. And extra contingents of special antiterrorism officers with automatic weapons were visible outside the Citigroup building at 54th Street and Lexington Avenue, at a Citigroup tower in Long Island City, Queens, and at the 24-story Prudential headquarters in Newark, where barricades were set up to block traffic from surrounding streets.
 The full impact of the new measures was expected to be felt with the start of the work week today by tens of thousands of employees, customers and visitors to Wall Street, Midtown Manhattan and downtown Newark, who were warned to expect tighter personal screening, closer scrutiny of backpacks and packages, more parking and traffic restrictions and other disruptive precautionary measures.
 In addition, commuters and travelers were warned to expect delays. Mayor Bloomberg said teams of officers would be posted at ''sensitive and symbolic'' locations throughout the city, including landmarks, major subway stations and train and bus terminals, and on bridge and tunnel approaches, where trucks and other large vehicles are to be halted at random and searched for explosives.
 For New Yorkers long accustomed to tight security, and now anticipating transportation delays and other logistical problems during the Republican National Convention, from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2, the extra measures appeared to pose minimal intrusions. But the specificity of the threats -- suicide car or truck bombs exploding at the portals of well-known institutions -- seemed destined to raise anxieties, especially among regulars on Wall Street and at other financial centers.
 A spokesman for the New York Stock Exchange declined to comment on security, although heavy measures to protect the institution, including barricades on all sides, checkpoints for anyone entering the building and police officers with automatic weapons on the perimeter, have been in place since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 Citigroup sent an e-mail message to all its New York City employees noting that the company had raised security at all its city buildings and that additional measures should be expected in the weeks ahead. The measures were not detailed, and a company spokesman declined to amplify.
 Special antiterror police teams called Hercules units gathered at the Citigroup building in Midtown, and Mayor Bloomberg said similar units would be deployed elsewhere. Several streets near Grand Central Terminal were closed to traffic last night, including the Park Avenue viaduct.
 Prudential, in a statement, said it was coordinating its additional security precautions with federal, state and local law enforcement officials ''to ensure the safety of its employees, customers and visitors.'' It gave no details, but some added security around the Newark headquarters, where 1,000 people work, was obvious yesterday. Police barricades blocked all traffic on streets adjacent to the building, and a team of regular and antiterrorist Newark police officers were posted outside. They wore black helmets and armor and carried M-16 rifles and submachine guns.
 In Trenton, Governor McGreevey and Sid Caspersen, New Jersey's counterterrorism coordinator, said that the Federal Department of Homeland Security had notified the state on Thursday about a possible terrorist plot, and had provided more information on Saturday. Mr. McGreevey said he could not reveal details of the plot but said he was absolutely convinced that the warnings were credible. He said he expected northern New Jersey to remain on heightened alert for months. 
 Mayor Bloomberg, differentiating between this and other reports of terrorist threats in recent years, said: ''For the first time we see a report that identifies specific targets and the level of surveillance of those targets is higher than what we've seen before.''
 The mayor emphasized that there was no information on when a strike might occur, but he discounted a reporter's suggestion that there was anything political about the warning and said the city would be remiss if it did not take the report seriously. 
 ''Even as we prepare for the Republican National Convention at the end of this month, we have ramped up security even further at the named locations as well as at other potential targets because of this recent intelligence,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 But he urged New Yorkers not to be intimidated by the warnings. ''What they should do is get up tomorrow morning and go to work and go about their business and enjoy the very freedoms that the terrorists find so threatening,'' he declared. 
 Commissioner Kelly said the precautions would include vehicle stops and searches -- some randomly, others targeting particular types of vehicles -- in Midtown and Lower Manhattan, and in Queens, as well as at bridges and tunnels into Manhattan. 
 Mr. Kelly said that, in addition to an increased police presence at the stock exchange and at the Citigroup buildings in Manhattan and Queens and some Prudential locations in New York, as many as 76 teams of police officers would be deployed to other locations, potential targets that he did not name. 
 The deployments came a day after the New York Police Department, citing reports that terrorists might be planning an attack on major corporations or large public institutions in the city, advised building managers and corporate security leaders to increase security to protect against vehicles rigged with explosives and against biological or chemical agents placed in heating, air conditioning or ventilating systems.
 The advisory warned security officials and building managers to be wary of bomb threats designed to evaluate responses, jobseekers who might be terrorist infiltrators, unannounced maintenance work, unanticipated deliveries and people asking questions about security or taking what was termed unusual videos or photographs. 
 Mr. Kelly said yesterday that his department had also asked the corporate and institutional security directors to safeguard their heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems from being used to deliver chemical or biological agents.
 Responding to a question, the commissioner said there were no indications that the plotters were hiding in the city. ''We have no information that would indicate that there are sleeper cells or that this individual or individuals who put this together are here in New York. There were clearly personal surveillance done at these locations. People visited these sights to do this type of surveillance and information gathering.'' 
 Outside the headquarters of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, just off Pennsylvania Avenue, several blocks west of the White House, there was no visible increase in police presence or federal law enforcement.
 There are at least four ongoing construction projects in the immediate area of the headquarters, which are adjacent. An office building is being erected across the street from the monetary fund. There, heaps of exposed construction materials, including a large blue tank marked ''danger'' and ''flammable,'' lay within an arm's reach on the other side of a chain-link fence.

More Precautions
Residents of New York City, northern New Jersey and Washington should see more police officers and some street closings in response to raised terror-alert levels, but officials said residents and workers, while practicing extra vigilance, should continue to go about their activities largely as normal. Here are some things to expect:

New York City
All bridges and tunnels remain open; additional police searches at their entrances.
Commercial vehicles are banned on the New York-bound side of the Holland Tunnel, but allowed on the New Jersey-bound side and on both sides of the Lincoln Tunnel and George Washington Bridge.
Trucks are banned from the Williamsburg Bridge.
Random police searches of cars and trucks in Lower Manhattan, Midtown Manhattan and Queens.
Several internal entrances at the Citigroup Building, 54th Street and Lexington Avenue, to be shut; stores accessible only from the street.
Subways, trains and airports will operate normally.

New Jersey
New Jersey Transit to run on normal weekday schedules; additional police searches on trains and ferries in northern New Jersey.
Prudential Plaza in Newark will be barricaded by metal fences and guarded by police officers with assault rifles; vehicular traffic is banned from surrounding streets.

Washington
No additional security restrictions at or around the White House.
No public access to firehouses.
Increased police patrols on Capitol Hill.
Random police searches of cars and trucks.
Bomb-sniffing canine units assigned to the World Bank.
Streets around the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund remain open.
Railroads and airports to operate normally.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Special antiterror police teams stood watch outside the Citigroup building in Midtown Manhattan yesterday. Trucks and vans were stopped and searched by the police on Broadway near Wall Street in Lower Manhattan. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CITIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); VEHICLE SEARCH (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (53%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (53%); TRAINS (50%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Citigroup Center (NYC); Bombs and Explosives

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) New York Stock Exchange; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Prudential Financial Headquarters (Newark, NJ); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); PRU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Robert D Mcfadden; Richard W Stevenson; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New Jersey; Newark (NJ); Washington (DC); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004



69 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: United Appears Boxed In as Trouble Percolates

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
''Never meet trouble halfway,'' wrote the 17th-century botanist John Ray. But by failing to address its monstrous pension issue the first time it sought worker concessions a year ago, United Airlines did just that.
 And now, United, a unit of UAL, is facing trouble everywhere it looks.
 Labor unions, a federal pension board, members of Congress and its regional partners all are unhappy with United over decisions it is making while it is in bankruptcy proceedings. 
 Drawing the most wrath is the company's decision to stop funding its pension plans until it emerges from bankruptcy, raising the possibility that it might terminate them altogether. 
 Because pilots may fear that their pensions might be threatened, analysts said the airline might see a wave of retirements like those at Delta Air Lines.
 If tensions grow deep enough, experts said, disgruntled employees may even re-enact their slowdown in the summer of 2000, which caused numerous delays and canceled flights. 
 That could wreak havoc on United's tightly run operations, which have been a lone bright spot in its 20 months in bankruptcy.
 ''There are tough choices to be made, but this could have been more artfully done,'' said Robert W. Mann, an industry consultant in Port Washington, N.Y.
 United executives insist that the airline's day-to-day business will not be affected by the uproar. Employees, whose jobs are at stake, are just as intent as the company's management on making sure United restructures, said John Tague, United's executive vice president for sales, marketing and revenue. 
 ''We're going to keep our eye on the ball and not be distracted by all this noise,'' Mr. Tague said.
 As proof the company is looking forward, United yesterday announced new premium transcontinental service, between New York and Los Angeles and New York to San Francisco, called ''p.s.'' It will fly Boeing 757 jets with 110 seats in three classes -- first, business and economy-plus -- replacing Boeing 767 jets on the routes that had been outfitted with 168 seats in three classes.
 Taking out the seats will allow the airline to offer an atmosphere more akin to that of a private jet, Mr. Tague said. First-class seats will convert to lie-flat beds, and there will be more legroom in each cabin.
 Such an approach is opposite that of Ted, the low-fare carrier that the airline started last year, and comes at a time when other low-fare airlines like JetBlue and Southwest are attracting a growing share of the business in transcontinental markets.
 Mr. Tague says the two ends of the service spectrum represent United's aggressive approach, bankruptcy issues aside. ''We're not going to act like a wounded company,'' he said. ''We're going to do what it takes to rebuild this company.''
 But such frills run the danger of further fraying the nerves of some employees. None are more upset than members of the machinists' union, which represents ramp workers and customer-service agents.
 ''They are about to find out what reaction is like in the real world,'' said S.R. Canale, who represents the machinists on United's board. ''We are at war with United Airlines.''
 Mr. Canale boycotted a two-day meeting last week in protest, a move applauded by United's flight attendants, who do not have a board seat. On Thursday, the machinists sued United's chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, accusing him of a breach of fiduciary duty, the first time that Mr. Tilton himself had been drawn into the fray. The machinists filed a similar suit in New Jersey yesterday. The first suit was filed in Chicago. 
 United fired back at the union for personalizing the fight, saying it had made a corporate decision to preserve the company's liquidity and flexibility as it tried to find its way out of bankruptcy proceedings.
 The roots of United's current chaos lie in the company's decision a year ago to leave its pensions basically intact, even as it wrung $2.5 billion in wage and benefit reductions from its unions. 
 At the time, United had an opportunity to suggest entirely new plans. It filed a motion with the bankruptcy court to cancel its existing labor agreements. But United did not ask unions for deep cuts in future pension benefits nor did it try to replace the pension plans with less generous ones even though it could have used the same bankruptcy motion to do so.
 The airline's choice to leave pensions alone mirrored Mr. Tilton's approach to employee relations. Mr. Tilton, a former oil executive who came on board two months before United filed for Chapter 11, strived to ingratiate himself in the tumultuous weeks that followed, acting like a strapped father unhappy at having to cut a child's allowance.
 Yet the kid-glove treatment given pensions caused murmurs among airline analysts and government officials, who knew they could yield the airline billions in savings. Publicly and privately, United insisted that was not necessary, saying the company's business plan allowed it to eventually become profitable and meet its pension obligations. All it needed, the airline said, was legislation that would stretch out its overdue obligations.
 There was a sense then that United might be banking on a directive from the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which was considering United's application for a loan guarantee package. In 2003, the board had told US Airways that it had to address its pilots' pension plan before it could win final approval of a $900 million loan package.
 A similar order to United could give it cover with its unions, bound to be angered by any efforts by United to touch the ''third rail'' of labor contracts, Mr. Mann said. 
 But the board and its staff were mum on the subject, a person close to the discussions said, feeling that it was up to the airline to outline steps it planned to take in its revamping plan. 
 With its loan application rejected for a third time on June 28, United swiftly moved on its retirement plans. Within hours, the company's financial advisers sent signals that pension plans had to be addressed; otherwise, lenders to whom it must turn to for billions in financing to exit bankruptcy proceedings would not come forward. 
 On July 14, United said that it had put off a decision on a $72.4 million payment due the next day, the first time since it had entered bankruptcy proceedings that it had not made required payments.
 The next week, it said that it would not make any more payments due before it exited bankruptcy, and was leaving its options open, including the possibility of terminating the plans. 
 That left Mr. Canale outraged. ''Every last little bit of credibility that this company had is gone,'' he said in an interview last week.
 In Washington, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which oversees the nation's retirement plans, expressed ''deep concern,'' while one of United's most vocal Congressional critics took another swipe at the company. 
 ''It is a horrible bait and switch perpetrated on the workers,'' said Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican of Illinois, who cast the lone no vote against airline bailout legislation in 2001 and opposed United's loan guarantee bid.
 United's chief financial officer, Frederic F. Brace III, said the airline faced different circumstances, given the spike in oil prices in the last year. United, which based its original loan guarantee application on the assumption that a barrel of oil would cost about $25, instead was facing prices of $42 a barrel.
 ''The world changed,'' Mr. Brace said on Friday. ''We have a different economic situation than we did six or nine months ago.'' 
 Liabilities over the next 18 months, Mr. Brace said, including pensions, represent ''a huge financial burden on the company.''
 But some of those liabilities may be easing slightly. United disclosed in a regulatory filing yesterday that the actual cost of its pensions dropped by nearly half during the first six months of the year. United said its pension costs were $250 million from January to June, compared with $455 million in the period a year earlier.
 In addition, the airline said that its retiree medical benefit costs also dropped almost in half, to $114 million from $226 million. This spring, United negotiated cuts in retiree health care benefits with its unions that it said would save it $300 million a year.
 United also said that it had begun hedging against further increases in the price of fuel. The airline had estimated its fuel costs in 2004 would be $750 million higher than anticipated because it did not have hedging contracts. But the regulatory filing showed United has hedged 30 percent of its remaining 2004 fuel contracts, at prices of 92 cents to $1.16 for a gallon of jet fuel, and expects to hedge in 2005 and 2006 as its financial conditions allow.
 The search for new financing means, however, that United will need to renegotiate some of its aircraft leases, even though it had reached agreement in principle on new payment levels with many lease holders. It warned in the regulatory filing that this could mean that some of its aircraft could be repossessed. 
 The pension issue is not the only one drawing legal scrutiny. Last week, Atlantic Coast Airlines said that United had failed to pay the $1.1 million it owed Atlantic for flights it operated in June as United Express. 
 And it was not paid $1.9 million for flights in July either, said Kerry B. Skeen, chief executive at Atlantic Coast, which began operating Independence Air, a low-fare airline, in June. Mr. Skeen said he would raise the issue in bankruptcy court.
 Yet United does have one cheerleader who knows the trouble it has seen: Frank Lorenzo, the former chief executive of Texas Air, who fought heated battles in the 1980's and 1990's with unions at Continental and Eastern over his quest to sharply reduce costs.
 Mr. Lorenzo, in an interview, said that United could successfully restructure if it attacked its pensions and health-care plans and adopted the low costs at JetBlue and Southwest as its model. 
 ''I think there's a pretty good chance that United could make the changes,'' he said.
 But Mr. Mann said such ''incendiary'' actions could come back to haunt United. ''Take a look at the impact that upset employees can have,'' Mr. Mann said. ''They call in sick, things get broken, customers get held hostage. It's not a conducive atmosphere for operational excellence.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Glenn F. Tilton, chief of United Airlines, has been sued by machinists, who charge that he breached his fiduciary duty. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); AIR SERVICE (77%); WORKPLACE MORALE (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Finances; Bankruptcies; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Pilots; Labor; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (56%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; Ual Corp

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (56%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (56%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (57%) Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



70 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: BANKING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Inside Help Suspected in Terror Plans at World Bank and Monetary Fund

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Federal counterterrorism officials have told officials at the World Bank and International Monetary Fund that they believe plans for a possible attack on the two financial institutions were so detailed that terrorists must have had inside help from employees, contractors or visitors with access throughout the buildings, officials at the two organizations say. 
 Some federal officials have expressed some doubt on how recent the information is that spurred the government to elevate the threat alert status on Sunday. Still other officials are pursuing what they see as the possibility of an inside job regarding the World Bank and I.M.F. by telling officials of these institutions that they are preparing to formally request some lists of their mostly foreign employees and contractors. Special requests are required because the records of these institutions have diplomatic immunity, though not all of their staff does. 
 But officials said the World Bank and the I.M.F., both members of the larger United Nations family, are reluctant to hand over employee lists. 
 ''If the Iranian government asked for a list of our employees in Tehran we wouldn't comply,'' said one official who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''How could we turn around and give names to the United States government?''
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow visited both institutions on Monday to tell their leaders that they had the full support of the Bush administration as they figured out how to protect themselves against the terrorist threat. ''It was a very gracious gesture,'' said James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, who broke off his vacation in the Galapagos Islands and returned to Washington late on Sunday. 
 Mr. Wolfensohn held a town-hall-style meeting for the World Bank staff on Monday afternoon, when he said that a new era had begun and that heightened security procedures would be in effect at least through the inauguration of the next American president. 
 ''We now know that the bank is on the awareness screen of Al Qaeda but we also know we must continue our work,'' he told the over-flowing crowd. ''Nothing should remotely allow us to lose our stride.''
 While relatively unknown in the United States, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund loom large in parts of the world where they are the main source for development aid and loans.
 Critics routinely castigate the I.M.F. for the strict conditions it imposes on its loans, and the World Bank is portrayed as doing too little for the poor.
 Now, in a turnaround, officials believe they are being singled out by terrorists for offering too much help in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 ''The terrorists don't want us to build roads, dig wells and treat sick children,'' said Damian Milverton, a spokesman at the World Bank.
 One World Bank employee died in the August 2003 bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad that killed Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations envoy. 
 Federal authorities alerted the I.M.F. on Saturday that it was a potential target of Al Qaeda and, after further study, told the World Bank on Sunday that it, too, was a target.
 In briefings and discussions since then, federal counterterrorism authorities learned that records it may want to review at the institutions are covered by diplomatic immunity.
 Counterterrorism authorities were also interested in lists of visiting delegations and employees from some countries, according to several officials at the institutions, who repeated the problems arising from such requests. ''These are very complicated legal questions, but one thing is certain: diplomatic immunity is not given up easily,'' one official said.
 There was no question of closing either institution and nearly all the staff members showed up on Monday. But many questioned why their buildings did not seem to have as much overt security as those targeted in New York, where police officers with automatic weapons were patrolling the sidewalks. 
 But new security was evident outside the complex of modern buildings. The police patrolled the area, suspended public parking and towed away unauthorized vehicles. Chief Charles H. Ramsey of the Washington police conferred through the day with the two institutions.
 This was just the beginning of plans for heightened security for the two financial institutions. The city turned on the camera system set up to monitor the area during the spring and annual meetings when protesters routinely attempt to block the session. New cement barriers will be installed. In a few days, the World Bank will set up tents to screen visitors before they enter the building. 
 Trucks will be inspected randomly by Washington police near the buildings. Out of state trucks will undergo similar inspections by the state police of Virginia and Maryland before they enter the capital.
 Rodrigo Rato, the new managing director of the International Monetary Fund, was on an official visit to Nigeria, and his staff also held a town hall meeting in his absence. Mr. Rato was the economy minister of Spain when a Qaeda bombing at a Madrid railway station in May helped topple his government. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 3 about plans for a possible terrorist attack on the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in Washington misstated the month of the terrorist bombing at a Madrid railway station this year. It was March, not May. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); TERRORISM (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); IMMUNITY (76%); WEATHER (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (68%); CHILDREN (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Diplomatic Immunity ; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; John W (Sec) Snow; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (55%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



71 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Celebrating a Statue, and a Different Kind of Cool

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
When Francisco J. Nunez founded the Young People's Chorus of New York City in 1988, he had several passionate convictions. First, that if he could just coax urban children of different racial, economic and religious backgrounds into working together, barriers would fall and the youngsters would realize how much they had in common. He was also convinced that with proper training children could be excellent and enthusiastic musicians, and that singing choral music, of all things, could be cool.
 That he has met his goals was clear Thursday when some three dozen of his choristers met in the basement of Manhattan Church of Christ on the East Side to prepare a performance for the reopening ceremony this morning of the Statue of Liberty, which has been closed to the public since 9/11. African-American choristers from Harlem, Dominicans from Washington Heights, Jewish youngsters from the Upper East Side, Roman Catholics from Greenwich Village and other diverse young New Yorkers all greeted one another with uncommonly ardent squeals and hugs, since they typically do not meet during the midsummer weeks. 
 In 15 years the Young People's Chorus of New York City, the resident choir of the 92nd Street Y, has grown from a small group of musically untrained children in a fledgling after-school program to a skilled ensemble of some 250 choristers ranging in age from 12 to 18 in five divisions that have won international prizes, the respect of critics and the gratitude of the many commissioned composers who have written challenging works for them.
 Mr. Nunez had to assemble a makeshift roster of 45 singers for this special ceremony. What better ensemble to perform at the statue than this ethnic coalition of young people? There was much to entice them. The ceremony is being nationally televised; the platform will be filled with dignitaries; the reopening of the monument is an emotional touchstone for Americans.
 And best of all, as Mr. Nunez told the choristers last week, a bus would take them from the 92nd Street Y by police escort to Battery Park, where they would board a special ferry with other participants, including the chorus of the 82nd Airborne Division, for the trip to Liberty Island.
 There was one problem, though, as Mr. Nunez said: ''The bus leaves the Y at 6 a.m., so you have to be there by 5:45.''
 Mr. Nunez, 39, identifies with these ''kids,'' as he always calls them. ''So many of these kids are just like me when I was young,'' he said.
 Born in New York, he spent many childhood years with his parents in the Dominican Republic, their native country, in a home filled with music. His mother, a factory worker, was his first piano teacher. Singing around the piano was an everyday activity. Still, when the family moved back to New York after his father died, at his mother's insistence Mr. Nunez put off dreams of music and entered Manhattan College as an engineering major. 
 But he soon transferred to New York University to study music. Looking for work after graduation, he approached the Children's Aid Society, which wanted someone to organize after-school activities. Basing himself at its center on Sullivan Street in Greenwich Village, Mr. Nunez introduced them to singing.
 ''I brought kids from Harlem, the Bronx and the Upper East Side down to the Village,'' he said. In one telling incident that Mr. Nunez recalled, a few years back at a rehearsal the well-off mother of a chorus member came rushing into the room wearing a mink coat, a limousine waiting for her on the street, apologizing for daughter's being late. Meanwhile another girl, a Dominican, was tugging at Mr. Nunez's sleeve, reminding him that she would need a token to take the subway home. Many children who come from homes with absentee fathers see Mr. Nunez as a surrogate parent. This June, he said, he received three Father's Day cards from youngsters who had no one else to give them to.
 Among the choristers at rehearsal last week was Lawrence Harper, a gangly 18-year-old wearing floppy shorts drooping from his waist, a basketball jersey and a black bandanna. Mr. Harper, an eight-year veteran of the chorus, was one of the few who joined when Mr. Nunez recruited at his elementary school in a crime-ridden neighborhood near the old Polo Ground.
 Though some friends tease him for being in a chorus, Mr. Harper said, ''It pays off.'' The chorus changed his life, helping him focus on school at the Frederick Douglass Academy in Harlem. He traveled last month to Germany, where the ensemble won gold medals in two divisions of the 2004 Choir Olympics in Bremer. Now college bound and a musically accomplished baritone, Mr. Harper says he wants to become a basketball player or a singer.
 For Mr. Nunez, a composer and conductor, his long involvement with the ensemble has been a surprise. ''When it started, I thought I would do it a year or two and then move on to other conducting,'' he said. ''But I am able to get much more high-level music from these young people, who are willing to work so hard and sing with such intensity.''
 Watching him in action it's clear who inspires the intensity. Tall, boyish and charismatic, he is a tireless conductor with an exacting ear for pitch, rhythm and verbal clarity, even in the pop-styled songs the chorus was preparing for today's ceremony, ''Give Us Hope'' and ''A Light Inside'' by the Jim Papoulis. He constantly demanded fuller sound, crisper delivery of text. He even wanted off-beat clapping that one song calls for to have a certain weight. ''I want the claps to be quarter notes,'' he said. ''You're making them eighth notes, too short.''
 The members are used to performing much harder music through the ''Transient Voices'' program Mr. Nunez began some years ago, in which composers are commissioned to write works with the luminous sound and youthful energy of these singers in mind. In April the chorus sang a demanding program at the New York Society for Ethical Culture than included seven new works, all mastered and memorized in three months, by composers like Richard Rodney Bennett and Tod Machover. The group's account of ''Boatman's Song'' by Bright Sheng, which involved shouting and smacking of sticks as well as some fancy singing, was especially impressive.
 Working with composers is a way of demystifying contemporary music, Mr. Nunez said. The ''Transient Voices'' program has led to a publication project with Boosey & Hawkes and a recording venture, which has already seen the release of a splendid CD titled ''Transient Voices,'' with six substantial works.
 Other choruses in the area are also doing notable work in this field, like the excellent Brooklyn Youth Chorus, run by Dianne Berkun, who is Mr. Nunez's former wife. They remain close colleagues. Still, the Young People's Chorus of New York has just gained a leap up in international recognition. It was recently selected as one of only two choruses from professional and amateur ranks that will represent the United States next year at the triennial World Symposium on Choral Music in Kyoto, Japan. So the chorus's board has some serious fund-raising to do to sponsor the trip.
 It's hard to know whether these young people realize how high the level of their musicianship and knowledge actually is. During one moment in the rehearsal Mr. Nunez, feeling that the performance of ''A Light Inside'' lacked swing, said, ''Come on, guys, this is a pop song, not Bright Sheng!''
 What other group of diverse New York teenagers would get that reference?


GRAPHIC: Photos: A member of the Young People's Chorus of New York City, rehearsing for today's performance. (Photo by Joe Kohen for The New York Times)(pg. E5)
 Francisco J. Nunez conducting the Young People's Chorus of New York City. (Photo by Joe Kohen for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); RELIGION (91%); MUSIC (90%); CHILDREN (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%) Music; Company and Organization Profiles; Children and Youth; Statue of Liberty; Music

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (55%) Young People's Chorus of New York City; 92d Street Y

PERSON: Francisco Nunez; Anthony Tommasini

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



72 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: PUBLIC ANXIETY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: As Public Adjusts to Threat, Alerts Cause Less Unease

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY and ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
If there was any doubt that Sept. 11, 2001, forever changed Americans' collective perception of risk, last weekend's terror warnings should put it to rest. 
 Most people took the warnings, the most urgent and detailed to date, in stride, say mental health experts who counsel employees at financial institutions named as potential targets. 
 ''I was surprised that our staff reacted quite quietly,'' said Dr. Bernard Demure, director of health services at the World Bank in Washington, one of the institutions that was cited. 
 The relative calm did not surprise psychologists who study how people can settle into a long-term relationship with catastrophic risk. Faced with a threat of harm that they can neither prevent nor dismiss, people often adapt so quickly that they are surprised by their own resilience.
 Dr. George Loewenstein, a professor of psychology and economics at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said that during one of the most violent periods of the civil war in Lebanon, researchers asked residents in Beirut to name the most serious problem confronting the city. Their response: ''a recent increase in traffic.''
 In similar fashion, three years after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Americans appear to have incorporated into their lives the periodic shifts in alert status from orange to yellow and back again. 
 The most recent warnings also contained something that psychologists say can make a threat less anxiety provoking: specific details.
 In experiments measuring the impact of different kinds of threats on anxiety levels, scientists find that general alerts are much more disturbing than specific ones.
 In one recent study, Dr. Andy Morgan, a psychiatrist at Yale University, compared how people reacted when alerted to a mild electric shock by the flashing of a blue light, and how they reacted when they had no warning. People were far more anxious, Dr. Morgan found, when they were given no details about what to pay attention to. Even a week later, when brought into the lab for testing, the people in the no-warning group were far more anxious. 
 ''When we hear specific threats, it gives us a cue, some information to focus on,'' Dr. Morgan said in a telephone interview. ''Unless we work at the buildings or have loved ones who do, that information should actually lower anxiety.'' 
 The latest warnings probably stirred in some people -- particularly those dealing with other life stresses -- common symptoms of upset, like sleep problems, headaches or hypervigilance. And some people may have ordered an extra cocktail or two or smoked a few more cigarettes, experts said. 
 But more striking was the evidence of habituation. Repeated warnings, intended to heighten Americans' awareness of the possibility of a terrorist act appear to have had the opposite effect, especially since so far, they have not been followed by attacks. Results from polls by the Pew Research Center suggest that since the first terror alert was issued in 2002, people's anxiety level has decreased with each successive warning.
 ''People do get desensitized,'' said Dr. Paul Slovic, a psychologist at the University of Oregon who studies risk perception. ''It happens with storm and tornado watches the very same way.'' 
 People living in tornado country, researchers find, usually ignore storm watches altogether, unless their town or area is specifically named. Even then, few take any action to avoid the storm unless they see the sky darkening, the wind come up or some other real evidence. 
 When there is little a person can do individually to prevent a danger or prepare for one, the brain begins to accept this risk as a normal part of life, Dr. Loewenstein said.
 This is the case, he and others said, in countries where unpredictable violence is commonplace. People there often adopt one of two approaches: They either carry on with their lives as if the threat is not real, or they become extremely cautious, avoiding crowded public places.
 ''The security is heavy everywhere in Israel,'' said Julie Shen, 41, a corporate consultant who splits her time between Mission Viejo, Calif., and Jerusalem. ''When you're parking, when you go into a mall, your bags are always being checked, and there are some people who just don't go out much at all. But most people go about their lives, and this heightened anxiety becomes almost a norm.'' 
 Psychologists say that they are still trying to understand how people respond psychologically to government-issued warnings, but that they can look to examples of how communities coped with highly stressful events in the past. In almost every case, there are predictable stages. 
 Dr. James W. Pennebaker, a professor of psychology at the University of Texas at Austin, said that as difficult as the threats might be to deal with, they also could have a unifying effect.
 ''When any culture is threatened, it brings the culture together,'' Dr. Pennebaker said. ''The reality is, if Al Qaeda feels as though it can destabilize us or any country through these threats, they don't understand psychology at all.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Concerned About Terrorism?''Results from nationwide Pew Research Center polls asking, ''How worried are you that there will soon be another terrorist attack in the United States?''Graph tracks people who were either very worried or somewhat worried concerning another terrorist attack from 2002 through 2004. (Gray areas show dates when nationwide alerts rose to orange from yellow. Orange alerts for sites in N.Y., N.J., and D.C.)Alert system introduced in 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); SLEEP (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%) Terrorism; Mental Health and Disorders

PERSON: Benedict Carey; Anahad O'Connor

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



73 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Evicted From Camp, Sudan Refugees Suffer in Limbo

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: EL FASHER, Sudan, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Aid workers call them ''Kofi Annan's group.''
 When Mr. Annan, the United Nations secretary general, pulled up at the dismal Meshtel refugee camp during a visit to Darfur on the afternoon of July 1, to his surprise every last person was gone. ''Where are the people?'' he was heard to ask. 
 A month later, he and other dignitaries have come and gone, but some 1,500 people from Meshtel remain in limbo. They were sent to another camp, Abushouk, but have not been completely welcomed and live a few degrees of destitution below the rest of the 50,000 displaced people there. 
 The new residents have yet to be formally registered, despite a month of waiting. That means they have not been entitled to plastic sheeting, free blankets or food rations from aid agencies, no matter what tragedies they may have endured. 
 Among the others in Abushouk, these down-and-out people are referred to with the same Arabic word given to used clothes. The nickname, Abu Janguer, comes from their hovels, many of which feature garments as roofs.
 ''We feel awful when they call us that,'' said Sara Abubakar Musa, 24, who was displaced by armed militias from her village several hours north of El Fasher. ''How can they give us such a name?''
 Ms. Musa was among those whom Mr. Annan never got to meet. On the eve of his visit, she recalled, government trucks showed up at Meshtel, a camp generally more squalid and unsightly. She said people had been ordered to grab their possessions and go -- not home, but to Abushouk, on the outskirts of town, ensuring that Mr. Annan would not see their severe hardship. 
 Such forced relocations have occurred here and in other parts of Darfur, Sudan's troubled western region, where more than a million people have been driven from their homes. As recently as this week, government officials were offering cash, food and other incentives to lure people living in resettlement camps back to their villages. Then there are those like Ms. Musa who are simply made to move.
 The aid workers condemn the government practice of trying to lure the displaced people back to their villages, but it is the residents themselves who typically speak out the loudest. Most say they will not go home until they are assured that Darfur is safe. 
 By nearly all accounts, a month after the high-profile visits from Mr. Annan and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, it is not. This is so despite increasing pressure -- including a United Nations Security Council resolution implying sanctions -- on Sudan's government to rein in marauding militias, known as the Janjaweed. The United States Congress and others have called the killings in Darfur genocide. 
 This vast region of scrub and sand is still marked by tension, insecurity and lawlessness, driven either by run-of-the-mill bandits or the Janjaweed militias, which the government has armed and backed in its conflict with two rebel groups. 
 The rebels have fought since early 2003 for more resources for the black African majority in Darfur, which they say has been neglected by a government in Khartoum dominated by Arabs. 
 Camps like Abushouk are where the thousands caught in the middle of the conflict find refuge in neat rows of huts, each covered with plastic sheeting to keep out the rains. 
 Mr. Powell came to Abushouk in late June and suggested afterward that he knew that conditions elsewhere in Darfur were much worse, despite the government's best efforts to hide the worst of camps, like Meshtel. There are two health clinics in Abushouk, and evenly spaced latrines. So organized is this camp that road signs have been stuck in the sand.
 But Abushouk has a bad neighborhood too. That is where Ms. Musa and the others transferred from Meshtel continue to live in squalor compared with their compatriots in other parts of the camp. Old clothes hung on wooden poles are all that protect them from the elements. They relieve themselves in the sand. 
 Many here lived with relatives in El Fasher after being forced out of their villages by armed militias. But when they saw other displaced people receiving benefits, they began camping out at Meshtel. Their approach failed, and they were moved once again.
 The other day, several hundred of those moved from the Meshtel camp looked on as aid workers gave out rations to other residents of Abushouk. When people from Meshtel would step forward, without the required registration card, the authorities would push them back. The giveaway finished, and the only people left, unfed, were those from Meshtel.
 Help may be on the way. The International Committee of the Red Cross, which coordinates aid in the camp, says it intends to begin providing assistance to the people from Meshtel soon. 
 ''These people were brought in all of a sudden, with no organization,'' said Jean-Francois Sonnay, head of the Red Cross office in El Fasher. ''We hope to start distributing to them in the next few days.''
 And officials at the World Food Program said the people from Meshtel will soon be added to its ration list. But the people themselves have heard nothing, which is by design. Aid workers fear that if word gets out, residents of the nearby town will flock to Abushouk.
 Until the aid does arrive, the outcasts whom Mr. Annan almost met are confused by the treatment they are receiving. 
 ''We don't know why we don't get the same as everyone else,'' said Ms. Musa, whose two children are recovering from malaria. ''No one wants to register us. It's not fair. Everybody is suffering, but we're suffering even more.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sara Abubakar Musa, left, and her sister Leila in the Abushouk camp, on the outskirts of El Fasher. They were displaced by armed militias and lived in the Meshtel camp before being transferred to Abushouk.
 In the Abushouk refugee camp on Saturday, a woman gave water to her child. They were among 1,500 people moved from the Meshtel camp. (Photographs by Guillaume Bonn for The New York Times)Map of Sudan highlighting El Fasher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EVICTION (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); GENOCIDE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%) Immigration and Refugees; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Foreign Aid; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations

PERSON: Marc Lacey; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



74 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Factory Index Rises Again; Construction Spending Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Manufacturing expanded at a respectable rate in July on strong orders and higher production rates, the Institute for Supply Management reported yesterday. 
 The group, based in Tempe, Ariz., said its manufacturing index registered 62 last month, up from 61.1 in June. It was the 14th consecutive monthly increase and was in line with analysts' consensus. An index reading above 50 indicates expansion, while one below 50 indicates that manufacturing activity is contracting. The gauge has been above 50 since June 2003. 
 But in Washington, the Commerce Department reported that construction spending slipped 0.3 percent in June, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of $985.2 billion, after expanding by a revised 0.1 percent in May. 
 The construction report was weaker than the flat reading that economists expected and represented another sign that the economy hit a rough patch early in the summer as interest rates rose and already high fuel costs increased further. 
 Residential construction by private builders totaled $527.1 billion in June, a 0.6 percent decline from May, the first decrease in 16 months. Commercial construction projects by private builders, like office buildings, were largely unchanged, at a pace of $219.5 billion. But government projects increased 0.2 percent in June, to a $238.5 billion annual pace.
 Norbert J. Ore, chairman of the supply institute's survey committee, was positive in a statement accompanying that report, saying ''July represents a good start for the third quarter, and the outlook continues to be very encouraging as new orders and production accelerated during the month.''
 The institute's new-orders index registered 64.7 in July, up from 60.0 in June. Its production index advanced to 66.1 from 63.2.
 Employment, supplier deliveries and inventories all expanded more slowly in July than June, as did prices. 
 ''Energy prices remain a major concern for purchasers,'' the institute said, ''as prices are at or near record highs.''
 Mr. Ore said the overall index reading had been above 60 for nine consecutive months, ''the longest period of growth above 60 percent since the 12-month period of July 1972 through June 1973.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending in billions of dollars at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Graph tracks construction spending from January 2003-June 2004.June: -0.3%May: +0.1April: +1.3(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Building (Construction)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



75 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: City Ponders Financial Costs Of Terror Alert

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
At 9:40 yesterday morning, Ondre Baronette was sitting in a pickup truck at the base of the Brooklyn side of the Manhattan Bridge, his construction job on the Lower East Side tantalizingly close, yet so far away. 
 ''We were supposed to be there at 8,'' Mr. Baronette said.
 Mr. Baronette, a laborer, was caught in a huge traffic jam caused by police checks of each truck and van crossing the Manhattan Bridge, one very visible component of the city's tightened security operations, the most stringent undertaken since the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center. 
 ''Getting there late means a longer workday,'' Mr. Baronette said. ''More work, less money. In this city, time is money. Everybody wants you to be on time. I guess this is O.K. because it is to keep everybody safe, but it sure slows things down.'' 
 Prompted by warnings from Washington that Al Qaeda might try to strike New York's financial heart again, more-visible security measures returned to New York yesterday as the city responded to apparent threats against specific buildings for the first time. Along with the police checks at the Manhattan Bridge, trucks were banned from the Williamsburg Bridge, the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel.
 The stepped-up measures led to worries that the security delays and psychological effects of the terrorism threat will act as a brake on a city economy that is just beginning to rev up after a prolonged slump.
 ''Anything that slows down the city in general has economic impact, and anything that affects the financial institutions that are still our most important industry also has an impact,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, an economist who is director of the city's Independent Budget Office. ''It is hard to imagine that these kinds of warnings don't have any impact.''
 Rob Kotch, who runs Breakaway Courier Systems, a business that like much of New York's economy depends on speed and mobility, put it another way. 
 ''The cost of all this security is friction to the economy,'' Mr. Kotch said. ''You consider the cost of a driver is $45 an hour. Do the math. If you put a dollar amount on waiting time sitting in traffic for security checks, it can be huge.''
 Though it is difficult to quantify the effect of the tighter security measures on the city's financial health, similar restrictions put in place in the aftermath of 9/11 did not help an already battered economy. No one is sure how long the new restrictions will remain in effect, and it is too early to tell if they will have a lasting impact. Just 24 hours after the federal government warning was issued, the stock market closed higher for the day and another vital New York industry, tourism, appeared to be doing fine.
 ''As we are experiencing a very strong summer travel season, it is our initial sense that our numbers will continue to remain vibrant,'' said Jonathan M. Tisch, the chairman of NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing arm, and chairman and chief executive of Loews Hotels. ''We have not seen any cancellations today,'' he said, referring to hotel reservations.
 Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, which represents Broadway theaters, said it was too early to tell if ticket sales would be affected. ''It doesn't seem people are staying in their hotel rooms, or cutting short their stays and rushing home,'' he said.
 Indeed, political and business leaders struck defiant poses. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki broke ground for a Bank of America building that will rise 52 stories at the corner of 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas.
 ''What better day to dedicate and break ground on a new building that is going to be a soaring icon right in the middle of this city and being occupied by a company that is a financial institution as well,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference in Bryant Park. 
 But the terror warnings did take a toll on the city, which is rebounding from a recession that lasted far longer than the one that gripped the rest of the nation. Though long accustomed from grim experience to the sights of stepped up security, New York's businesses struggled to cope with the traffic tie-ups and intrusions large and small that are a fact of life in the post-Sept. 11 world. 
 Business at the shops in the Citigroup Center, at 53rd Street and Lexington Avenue, one of the institutions identified as a possible target of an attack, was markedly down as tight security restricted access for customers. The subway entrance to the public atrium was closed and customers could enter atrium shops only from inside the building, which was open only to building workers. Lisa Navarro, manager of Sports City, one of the stores in the Citigroup Center, estimated that the store lost 40 percent of its normal amount of foot traffic and $2,000 to $3,000 in sales. 
 She said security personnel at the main entrance told customers that the store was closed, which cost sales. ''I hope the building can work for us so we can keep our jobs and also be safe and secure,'' Ms. Navarro said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Police Officer Melissa Cole put a truck driver through a security check on the Brooklyn side of the Manhattan Bridge
in Midtown, entrances to the Citigroup Center were restricted and closely guarded. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)
(Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
The sidewalks in the Wall Street area were crowded with commuters yesterday morning. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 A crowd gathered at Park Avenue and 57th Street as the police investigated an unattended suitcase. (Photo by Rene Clement for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); BUDGETS (75%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TRENDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (60%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Economic Conditions and Trends; Delays (Transportation); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



76 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Reports That Led to Terror Alert Were Years Old, Officials Say

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL and DAVID JOHNSTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Much of the information that led the authorities to raise the terror alert at several large financial institutions in the New York City and Washington areas was three or four years old, intelligence and law enforcement officials said on Monday. They reported that they had not yet found concrete evidence that a terrorist plot or preparatory surveillance operations were still under way.
 But the officials continued to regard the information as significant and troubling because the reconnaissance already conducted has provided Al Qaeda with the knowledge necessary to carry out attacks against the sites in Manhattan, Washington and Newark. They said Al Qaeda had often struck years after its operatives began surveillance of an intended target.
 Taken together with a separate, more general stream of intelligence, which indicates that Al Qaeda intends to strike in the United States this year, possibly in New York or Washington, the officials said even the dated but highly detailed evidence of surveillance was sufficient to prompt the authorities to undertake a global effort to track down the unidentified suspects involved in the surveillance operations. 
 ''You could say that the bulk of this information is old, but we know that Al Qaeda collects, collects, collects until they're comfortable,'' said one senior government official. ''Only then do they carry out an operation. And there are signs that some of this may have been updated or may be more recent.''
 Frances Fragos Townsend, the White House homeland security adviser, said on Monday in an interview on PBS that surveillance reports, apparently collected by Qaeda operatives had been ''gathered in 2000 and 2001.'' But she added that information may have been updated as recently as January.
 The comments of government officials on Monday seemed softer in tone than the warning issued the day before. On Sunday, officials were circumspect in discussing when the surveillance of the financial institutions had occurred, and Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge cited the quantity of intelligence from ''multiple reporting streams'' that he said was ''alarming in both the amount and specificity of the information.''
 The officials said on Monday that they were still analyzing computer records, photos, drawings and other documents, seized last month in Pakistan, which showed that Qaeda operatives had conducted extensive reconnaissance.
 ''What we've uncovered is a collection operation as opposed to the launching of an attack,'' a senior American official said.
 Still, the official said the new trove of material, which was being sifted for fresh clues, combined with more recent flows of intelligence, had demonstrated that Al Qaeda remains active and intent on attacking the United States.
 The concern about the possibility of an attack was apparent on Monday. Armed guards were positioned at the five targets listed by Mr. Ridge: the New York Stock Exchange and the Citigroup buildings in Manhattan, the headquarters of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in Washington and Prudential Financial in Newark. The buildings were subjected to their highest level of security since the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, with barricades, rapid-response teams and bomb-sniffing dogs providing rings of protection. 
 With intelligence reports specifying a possible truck bombing, police stopped and searched vehicles in the Wall Street area, while vans and trucks were banned from bridges and tunnels entering lower Manhattan.
 In Washington, President Bush said the alert issued on Sunday reflected ''a serious business.'' He said at a White House news conference, ''We wouldn't be contacting authorities at the local level unless something was real.''
 Despite the new terror warnings, the stock market gained ground, denting expectations that it would drop with the heightened security alert. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 39 points.
 A sizable part of the information seized in Pakistan described reconnaissance carried out before the Sept. 11 attacks, officials said. The documents do not indicate who wrote the detailed descriptions of security arrangements at the financial buildings or whether the surveillance was conducted for a current operation or was part of preparations for a plan that was later set aside. 
 In a briefing on Sunday, a senior intelligence official said that the threat to the financial institutions ''probably continues even today.''
 Federal authorities said on Monday that they had uncovered no evidence that any of the surveillance activities described in the documents was currently under way. They said officials in New Jersey had been mistaken in saying on Sunday that some suspects had been found with blueprints and may have recently practiced ''test runs'' aimed at the Prudential building in Newark.
 Joseph Billy Jr., the special agent in charge of the F.B.I.'s Newark office, said a diagram of the Prudential building had been found in Pakistan. ''It appears to be from the period around 9/11,'' Mr. Billy said. ''Now we're trying to see whether it goes forward from there.'' 
 Another counterterrorism official in Washington said that it was not yet clear whether the information pointed to a current plot. ''We know that Al Qaeda routinely cases targets and then puts the plans on a shelf without doing anything,'' the official said.
 The documents were found after Pakistani authorities acting on information supplied by the Central Intelligence Agency arrested Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, an engineer who was found to have served as a middleman in facilitating Qaeda communications. His capture led the C.I.A. to laptop computers, CD-ROM's, and other storage devices that contained copies of communications describing the extensive surveillance.
 Mr. Khan had been essentially unknown to the United States as recently as May, according to information provided by a Pakistani intelligence official, who said the C.I.A. had described him to Pakistani authorities that month only as a shadowy figure identified by his alias, Abu Talha. 
 The lack of knowledge about Mr. Khan reflected how hard it has been for American authorities to penetrate Al Qaeda. He operated successfully without the government learning of his existence even after three years of an intensive intelligence war against Qaeda that has emphasized efforts to intercept the terror network's communications traffic. 
 In pursuing the new leads, intelligence and law enforcement authorities were working at several different levels, American officials said, in trying to make sense of what some described as a ''jigsaw puzzle'' that included first names, aliases, and temporary email addresses but little hard identifying material that could lead to suspects in the United States or overseas. 
 The scope of the inquiry ranged from ''individuals who were orchestrating it from far-off lands to individuals who were in charge of different cells, to the actual operating of cells,'' a senior intelligence official said. The priority effort to identify people connected to the surveillance of the financial institutions has been under way since counterterrorism officials received the new information from Pakistan beginning Thursday evening, counterterrorism officials said on Monday.
 The information, which officials said was indicative of preparations for a possible truck- or car-bomb attack, left significant gaps. It did not clearly describe the suspected plot, indicate when an attack was to take place nor did it describe the identities of people involved.
 As a result, federal and local authorities began an effort to locate possible suspects who might have carried out the surveillance. Intelligence officers began interviewing Qaeda detainees asking whether they knew Mr. Khan or anyone who might have been involved in monitoring the targeted buildings and allied foreign intelligence services were asked if they had any information about the suspected plot. 
 At the same time, federal agents and local police began canvassing the buildings regarded as likely targets seeking to determine whether anyone recalled seeing people who appeared to be conducting surveillance. They sought lists of employees to determine whether anyone suspicious might have worked at any of the buildings and names of vendors, searching for anyone who might have visited the buildings to study security arrangements.
 Senior counterterrorism and intelligence officials based in Europe said the information targeting the five buildings was developed by Qaeda operatives before Sept. 11, 2001. But a senior European counterterrorism official cautioned that ''some recent information'' indicated that the buildings might remain on a list of Qaeda targets.
 ''Al Qaeda routinely comes up with ways to hit targets for years at a time, so it may not mean much that these buildings were first targeted more than three years ago,'' the official said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW YORK -- Police officers conducted extra security checks yesterday outside the New York Stock Exchange. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 WASHINGTON -- A special transit police unit rode trains yesterday as part of its security sweep of the Metro. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terrorism; Terrorism; Terrorism

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Douglas Jehl; David Johnston; Frances Fragos Townsend

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (92%) New York City; Washington (DC); Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



77 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: A Woman With Stalin on Her Mind

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

MONUMENTAL PROPAGANDA
By Vladimir Voinovich
365 pages. Translated by Andrew Bromfield. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 If Frank Capra had been an acerbic Russian novelist and not a sunny American filmmaker, he might have written novels like Vladimir Voinovich's: funny, antic works that pit the little man against the system, ordinary folks against bureaucratic institutions and corrupt authorities.
 Mr. Voinovich -- who moved to Germany in 1980 after years of harassment by the Soviet authorities -- writes darkly tinted satires in the tradition of Gogol, works that turn the absurdities of ordinary life in the Soviet Union and Russia into cunning comedies: realism heightened and disguised as farce.
 ''The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin'' (1977) wittily sent up Soviet politics and army life (and pre-World War II party-line fiction) through its subversive portrait of an amiable, not-too-bright slob who is charged with desertion and treason. ''Moscow 2042'' (1987) purveyed an Orwellian view of the Soviet future, depicting an emigre's sci-fi voyage to ''the world's first separate communist republic.'' And ''The Fur Hat'' (1989) created a sardonic parable about life in the Soviet Union through its comic account of a hack author's indignation at the decision of the writer's union to bestow upon him a lowly cat-fur hat, not the prestigious reindeer or marmot hat he covets as a symbol of his status. 
 Mr. Voinovich's novels not only satirize life in the Soviet Union, but also unfold into philosophical meditations on the venality, hubris and folly of the human condition. His lumpy new book ''Monumental Propaganda,'' translated from the Russian by Andrew Bromfield, is no exception. His first novel in 12 years, it turns the dissident trope inside out, recounting the story of one Aglaya Stepanovna Revkina, an ardent Stalinist, whose faith in the tyrant endures for decades, despite her persecution by party factotums eager to hew to the latest party line and despite the Soviet Union's breakup. It is a tale of naive, willful delusion on a collision course with bureaucratic group-think: mindless belief on a collision course with unthinking pragmatism. 
 The novel divides into two unequal parts. The first, depicting life in the Soviet Union from Khrushchev's rise through the era of Brezhnev and Kosygin, is a cutting, comic romp that limns the fallout of government policy on the residents of a Russian town named Dolgov. In tracing the fluctuating fortunes of Aglaya and her ideological nemesis, a dissident writer named Shubkin, it gives us a sad-funny diorama of life in Dolgov and its residents' dogged efforts to stay out of trouble with the government and somehow get ahead.
 The second part of the novel, depicting life in the new post-glasnost Russia -- which the author, living in Munich, has presumably seen less of firsthand -- is decidedly more problematic. Though the book's increasingly shaggy-dog structure seems meant to mirror the chaotic changes taking place in Russia, the later sections devolve into narrative incoherence, with a wide array of hastily drawn minor characters -- including a bomb maker and assorted terrorists and entrepreneurs -- displacing Aglaya and Shubkin's hold on the reader's imagination.
 Aglaya's devotion to Stalin, we learn early on, is religious in its ferocity. When local party apparatchiks, intent on promoting Khrushchevian reforms, pressure her to recant, she refuses and is stripped of her party membership. And when she sees the statue of Stalin -- which had long stood in Dolgov's town square -- being torn down, she has it dragged home to her apartment. There, she pays tribute to her idol, polishing the iron man and greeting fellow believers, who come to pay their respects. Rumors about the statue's ghostly powers begin to circulate in town: Aglaya's downstairs neighbors report they ''had definitely heard someone heavy walking around on the second floor at night,'' while someone else mentions ''a figure wandering around the waste lot in the twilight.''
 With the advent of democracy in the new Russia, Aglaya -- who has spent some 20 years in an alcoholic haze -- reawakens, hopeful that perhaps Stalin's time may have come again. A neighbor says to her: ''When we were in power, people didn't like us. But now they compare and they see how things were under the communists and how they are today. Poverty, prostitution, unemployment, a ruined army, striking miners, hungry teachers. Stealing, corruption, armed conflicts and terrorism. The people are coming back to us, Aglaya Stepanovna.''
 For Mr. Voinovich's narrator -- who presents himself as an acquaintance of the major characters -- the lesson of Aglaya's story is simple: ''The generations are no better or worse than each other; their beliefs, mistakes and behavior depend on the historical and personal circumstances in which they grow up. It doesn't take a prophet to predict that people will be blinded again, and more than once, by false teachings, will yield to the temptation of endowing certain individuals with super-human qualities and glorify them, raise them up on a pedestal and then cast them back down again. Later generations will say that they were fools, and yet they will be exactly the same.''
 These sorts of observations open the door to a troubling relativism -- i.e. that Stalin was no worse than any of the other tyrants and bureaucrats who preceded and followed him -- but Mr. Voinovich keeps such issues at bay by focusing not on the people in power, but on the little folks who are affected by their decisions. While ''Monumental Propaganda'' becomes, halfway through, a big mess of a novel, it should serve -- for readers unfamiliar with ''Private Ivan Chonkin'' and ''Moscow 2042'' -- as a useful introduction to this gifted satirist's more major works. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladimir Voinovich (Photo by Brigitte Friedrich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Michiko Kakutani; Vladimir Voinovich

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



78 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Smarty Jones Is Leaving As Quickly As He Arrived

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
Smarty Jones was retired to stud yesterday almost as suddenly as he captured the nation's imagination last spring, when he rolled to victories in the Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes before sustaining his only loss at the Belmont Stakes in a gallant, but ultimately leg-wobbling defeat just yards away from capturing the Triple Crown. 
 Smarty Jones has bruising in all four fetlock joints, the equivalent in humans of sprained ankles. It was not a career-ending condition, veterinarians who examined him said, but one that Smarty Jones's owners feared might be aggravated. 
 ''If anything else went wrong, it would break our heart,'' said Pat Chapman who, along with her husband, Roy, owned and bred the 3-year-old Smarty Jones on their aptly named Someday Farm in Pennsylvania. ''After all he's done, I couldn't live with myself if I thought we were putting him in harm's way. He doesn't owe us anything, and we owe him a lot.'' 
 The Chapmans acknowledged that it was a heart-rending decision to retire Smarty Jones, who won eight of nine career races and earned $7,613,155, the fourth most of any thoroughbred. He also made famous three everyday horsemen: Chapman, a car dealer from Philadelphia; the trainer John Servis; and jockey Stewart Elliott. 
 Smarty Jones, with his catchy name and Triple Crown bid, had been a boon for racing. He attracted thousands of fans to his home base of Philadelphia Park for morning workouts, helped increase television ratings for the Preakness and Belmont Stakes, and inspired scores of children to write him letters. 
 But the Chapmans conceded that the economics at the elite levels of horse racing influenced their decision. In June, after Birdstone ran down Smarty Jones in the Belmont and kept him from becoming the first Triple Crown champion since Affirmed in 1978, the Chapmans sold 50 percent of the colt's breeding rights for more than $20 million to Three Chimneys Farm near Midway, Ky. 
 While shopping the stallion rights to commercial breeders, the Chapmans insisted that potential partners allow them to race Smarty Jones as a 4-year-old to pay back racing and the nonracing public that had turned Smarty Jones into America's horse. 
 But after consulting with veterinarians and the principals at Three Chimneys, they decided it would be more prudent and lucrative to send the colt to the breeding shed next season. 
 The farm has yet to determine a stud fee for Smarty Jones, a son of Elusive Quality, but breeding experts said it is likely to be between $75,000 to $150,000 a coupling. 
 The fetlock, commonly referred to as a horse's ankle, sits roughly four inches from the ground and serves as a shock absorber, said Dr. Larry Bramlage, an equine orthopedic surgeon who consulted on the case. 
 Last week, after withdrawing Smarty Jones from the Pennsylvania Derby, Servis acknowledged that several bruises had to be cut out of Smarty Jones's hooves over the last five months, including one before the Kentucky Derby. But a subsequent nuclear scan showed more inflammation than had been suspected.
 ''We bring horses back from this all the time,'' Bramlage said. ''It's not a structural problem, and the prognosis for full recovery is excellent. He needs to have an opportunity to move around in the field for a while. They have to have a break.''
 But the time off was likely to last several months, and the Chapmans and Three Chimneys opted for the almost certain prospect of having more than 100 mares awaiting Smarty Jones in the breeding shed, rather than the uncertainty of when, and how effective, the colt might be on his return to the racetrack. 
 ''I'm sorry if it casts any negative light in any direction,'' Pat Chapman said when asked about the couple's change of heart. 
 Servis sounded devastated by the retirement of the best horse that ever graced his barn. A year ago, before Smarty Jones had ever raced, Servis was on the track when the colt reared in a training gate, fractured his skull and nearly died. Upon the colt's recovery, Servis handled Smarty Jones brilliantly. 
 He raced Smarty Jones first as a 2-year-old in Pennsylvania, where he won his only two starts by a combined 22 3/8 lengths. As a 3-year-old, Smarty Jones made a victorious stop at Aqueduct in the Count Fleet, and then Servis took him to Oaklawn Park in Hot Springs, Ark. Besides slowly stretching his colt out in distances over a series of three races, Servis also put Smarty Jones in the position to capture a $5 million bonus offered by Oaklawn Park to any horse that won its Rebel Stakes and Arkansas Derby, and then went on to win the Kentucky Derby. 
 Smarty Jones did just that, then looked invincible galloping off with the Preakness by a record 11 1/2 lengths. In the Belmont, Smarty Jones had a chance to join Seattle Slew as only the second undefeated Triple Crown champion in history. He was harassed by three rivals early in the grueling mile-and-a-half marathon, dispatched them and looked every bit like Seattle Slew and the 10 other Triple Crown champions until the final strides.
 ''It hurts me,'' Servis said. ''He could do things so effortlessly. He might be the best of all time. It's unfortunate people won't see that. I know he's a great horse. I just hope it carries over to the breeding shed.''
 Smarty Jones will occupy the former stall of Seattle Slew at Three Chimneys, and like Seattle Slew, he is expected to attract scores of visitors who were thrilled by his performances on the racetrack. 
 ''I think 10 years from now we'll be saying that Smarty Jones was a great one on the track and a great one in the breeding shed,'' Dan Rosenberg, the president of Three Chimneys, said. ''He became America's horse with his speed, charisma and way of overcoming the odds.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Smarty Jones, right, attracted scores of racing fans earlier this year with his catchy name and dramatic Triple Crown bid. (Photo by Chris Gardner/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (89%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (76%); ORTHOPEDICS (76%); SPORTS FANS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



79 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: American Art Is Adrift For Biennale In Venice

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Which artist will represent the United States when the Venice Biennale, arguably the most prestigious contemporary arts festival in the world, opens next summer? Potentially, no one.
 The committee that recommends an artist to represent the United States at the Biennale has been disbanded by its overseer, the National Endowment for the Arts, which is rethinking its involvement with federal advisory committees.
 And the State Department, which is responsible for American representation at this and many other international exhibitions, is not only looking for someone to run it but also to help pay for it.
 Last December the two private partners that have helped support American participation in the Venice Biennale for 17 years, the Pew Charitable Trusts and the Rockefeller Foundation, withdrew their support, saying they were refocusing their grant programs. Staging the exhibition at the Palladian-style villa that has been home to the American pavilion can cost up to $1 million. The government and the two foundations together provided $350,000. For years museums and artists have raised the rest of the money themselves or through corporate sponsors. 
 Now they will have to raise even more.
 Desperate to find a quick solution, late last month officials from the State Department approached the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, which owns the pavilion, about organizing the American exhibition at the 2005 Biennale. But Lisa Dennison, the Guggenheim's deputy director and chief curator, said the institution wasn't sure it wanted to take on the task.
 ''We're not champing at the bit,'' she said. ''It's a lot of money to raise in a very short period of time.''
 The State Department's decision to ask a museum to organize the pavilion rather than let a committee decide is viewed by many in the art world as undemocratic and scandalous.
 ''Maybe it's appropriate that our national pavilion be empty and allow people to project their own image of what is on the walls,'' said Kathy Halbreich, director of the Walker Art Center in Minnesota, who has served on the selection committee. ''This is not the time for a unilateral decision. It is particularly tragic at this moment that we will not have an open and clear process.''
 Her thoughts are echoed by other museum directors, curators, artists and collectors around the world. Matthew Teitelbaum, president of the Association of Art Museum Directors, said: ''We believe that a juried process is the appropriate way to go. A process that allows curators and museums from across the country to make a bid for the event is important. It tells the world something about the complexity and nature of America.''
 Joseph Merante, director of cultural affairs in the Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs at the State Department, would say only, ''We the State Department continue to support the U.S. presence at the international Biennales.'' Mr. Merante pointed out that the State Department was giving $170,000, more than in the past. It gave $149,000 toward the Venice Biennale in 2003 and $145,000 in 2001. ''We are doing as much as we can,'' he said.
 Mr. Merante said the State Department had not formally asked the Guggenheim to organize the American pavilion. He declined to discuss the result of a State Department request for proposals to help organize the competition the way Arts International, a nonprofit organization, had managed it for Pew and Rockefeller. The letters were sent out only last week, Mr. Merante said, and he wasn't sure they had been received.
 Since the mid-1980's curators from around the country have submitted proposals for exhibitions to a committee made up of arts professionals under the auspices of the National Endowment for the Arts. That committee, in turn, makes its recommendation to the chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts and the State Department.
 Ann Philbin, director of the U.C.L.A. Hammer Museum in Los Angeles, who was on the selection committee for three years, said she was concerned that a new State Department program, Culture Connect, was higher on the government's cultural exchange agenda.
 ''One of the problems,'' Ms. Philbin said, ''is that the State Department's Culture Connect program takes away from serious cultural exchange in the arts and humanities and instead trots out second-tier Hollywood celebrities for international exchange purposes.''
 Officials at the State Department say that Culture Connect, a year-old program that reaches out to diverse foreign cultures, especially people 12 to 25, has nothing to do with the money that go to American representation at international festivals.
 Meanwhile some curators have developed proposals for exhibitions of American artists but have nowhere to send them.
 Linda Norden, a contemporary art curator at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard, has teamed up with Donna de Salvo, a curator who is joining the Whitney Museum of American Art in the fall, on a proposal to show the California artist Ed Ruscha at the 2005 Biennale.
 ''It would be a shame if this were decided by a single institution,'' she said. ''All of us are just waiting.'' Ms. Norden tried to represent Mr. Ruscha at the 2003 Venice Biennale, and she and several other curators who were passed over two years ago, have modified their proposals and are waiting to hear who, if anyone, they can resubmit them to.
 Putting together an exhibition in Venice is tricky and costly. The American pavilion was built by the architectural team of Delano & Aldrich in 1930 and paid for by benefactors of the Grand Central Galleries in New York. It is the only privately owned pavilion in the Giardini di Castello, the lush garden at the tip of Venice where the international pavilions are located.
 As owner of the American pavilion, Grand Central Galleries organized and administered the pavilion through the 1930's, inviting institutions like the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the National Gallery of Art in Washington to present exhibitions. In 1954 the Grand Central Galleries sold the pavilion to the Museum of Modern Art, which presented shows there in 1954 and 1962. In 1956 and 1960, the Modern invited the Art Institute of Chicago and the Baltimore Museum of Art to put together exhibitions.
 In 1964 the Modern withdrew from participating in the Biennale, and the United States Information Agency took over. (In 1999 that agency was consolidated into the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.) In 1986 the Guggenheim bought the pavilion for $30,000 with money provided by the Peggy Guggenheim Collection Advisory Board in Venice. Since then the Peggy Guggenheim Collection has been paid for its fees and expenses of about $100,000 to help run the American exhibition.
 Curiously, even though the Guggenheim owns the building, it has never organized an exhibition there, although it has organized architecture biennales in Venice. It was invited to organize the 2003 Biennale but declined, citing the economic downturn after 9/11.
 Over the years members of the selection committee say, the Guggenheim has tried to get control of the exhibition in the American pavilion. But now that it has the opportunity, it isn't sure it wants it.
 Money has always been a problem. When the conceptual artist Robert Gober was selected to represent the American pavilion at the 2001, he made three editions of prints that he sold to collectors and museums, raising $370,000 to go toward his exhibition.
 ''There are a lot of basic expenses you don't think about,'' he said. For example, artists and curators are expected to keep the pavilion open through November, the duration of the Biennale, that means guards have to be paid for, along with cleaning crews, insurance and Guggenheim interns who act as gallery attendants. Then there's the cost of producing a catalog of the show and expenses like production costs for the artworks themselves as well as the expense of staging events at the site.
 Mr. Gober said he hoped a committee would select the next artist rather than having the State Department just hand it over to the Guggenheim.
 ''If the Guggenheim does it,'' he said, ''it will become an arm of the museum.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The American pavilion at the Venice Biennale, which is owned by the Guggenheim Museum, was built by Delano & Aldrich in 1930. (Photo by www.guggenheim-venice.it)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%) Art; Venice Biennale ; Art

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (84%) National Endowment for the Arts; State Department; Pew Charitable Trusts; Rockefeller Foundation; Guggenheim, Solomon R, Museum (NYC)

PERSON: Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



80 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Taesung Village Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: In a DMZ That Bristles Less, the Villagers Are at Home

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TAESUNG VILLAGE, South Korea 

 BODY:
Here in the only inhabited corner of the demilitarized zone dividing the Korean peninsula, at least one young descendant of the first inhabitants of this most peculiar of villages was blissfully unaware of its twisted origins.
 ''I've heard about the DMZ, but I don't know what it is,'' said Kim So Young, 10, a fifth grader at the Taesung Elementary School, which has 14 staff members, 14 students, classrooms equipped with giant television sets and more computers than the pupils can use. ''There must be other villages like ours, right?''
 The armistice ending the Korean War in 1953 created the DMZ, a strip of land two and a half miles wide running about 150 miles from coast to coast. It remains enclosed in barbed wire fences, dotted with land mines and surrounded by hundreds of thousands of soldiers. In a rare moment of agreement, though, the South and North decided in 1955 to build model villages to extol each side's superior way of life. 
 And so was born Taesung Village, also called Freedom Village, on the southern half of the DMZ here, facing the North's own model village, called Kijong.
 Each side poured money into its showcase village. The arguments were hardly subtle and indeed sometimes boiled down to the level of whose flagpole is bigger. In the 1980's, shortly after the Southerners erected a 328-foot flagpole, a 525-foot flagpole went up on the other side.
 With nothing but an invisible line separating the two villages, cold war confrontation was often eyeball to eyeball.
 At the height of the cold war, North Korean soldiers would slip over to this side to ambush American soldiers. Villagers here unwittingly stepping over into the North would find themselves arrested by North Korean soldiers. In a recent instance of psychological warfare, or just annoying behavior, North Korean soldiers crossed several feet into the Southern side and sat down on chairs while the Southerners were busy harvesting crops.
 Taesung's 226 residents living inside 52 houses carry special ID's and, when leaving and entering, must endure countless checkpoints. They must return to the village by nightfall and be inside their houses by 11 p.m. With mosquitoes breeding in the wilderness of the DMZ, malaria survives here. One resident was killed after stepping on a land mine; another lost a foot.
 ''People outside think this must be a frustrating, closed place,'' said Kim Dong Hyun, 49, the mayor. ''But it doesn't feel that way to us. It's our home. My parents lived here before the war.''
 Indeed, most residents trace their prewar roots to this area. In keeping with Korean customs, male residents are allowed to bring wives to live here, but female residents marrying outsiders must leave. The population has declined slightly, from about 250 two decades ago.
 In return for the restrictions, residents are granted special privileges, including exemption from paying provincial taxes and serving in the military. The inhabitants, almost all of whom are farmers, have been allotted large patches of land, so that the annual household income here is among the nation's highest.
 But it is at the school that the South's lavish propaganda spending is manifest. According to the principal, Gil Hae Sung, it receives a special budget that allows it to buy equipment and facilities found in no other school.
 Maybe because of the school's facilities, or because they had grown up here and knew no other place, the children saw nothing strange in living inside the DMZ. None of the four fifth and sixth graders could remember being warned to evacuate, as their parents routinely were. None in fact could recall any warnings at all.
 ''My father told me not to go to a certain area,'' So Young finally said, ''because my grandmother was abducted by North Koreans when she was picking acorns.''
 At the family home later in the afternoon, the father, Kim Kyung Min, 51, told of how in 1997 his mother, brother and he were picking acorns. Because they were near the military demarcation line separating the southern and northern halves of the DMZ, they were accompanied, as is the rule, by South Korean soldiers. Speaking of his mother and brother, Mr. Kim said, ''They probably went over the line by 30 feet when North Korean guards came and said: 'Stop! Raise your hands!'''
 After five days in detention, they were released and given a box of pears and a persimmon tree, which now grows in the family's garden.
 Life here has gotten easier because the North and the South are increasingly friendly. The propaganda that each side broadcast over loudspeakers ceased in June.
 The North, too, appears to have lost the zeal or means to compete in the propaganda war. On the northern half of the DMZ, the North Korean village of Kijong is a silhouette of a series of tall buildings, an eerie urban skyline inside the DMZ. But according to surveillance from the South, Kijong appears uninhabited.
 The dynamics and conversations along the military demarcation line have also changed according to the fortunes of each country. The North was richer than the South just after the Korean War. But while the South has grown to become the world's 12th largest economy, the North has been facing economic collapse.
 ''The North Korean soldiers would always talk to us first,'' Mayor Kim said. ''They used to say: 'Come over to our side. We'll feed you. You must be hungry. We'll give you soup with meat.' But nowadays, they talk to us and ask us for food.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A South Korean soldier stood guard as Kim So Young, 13, walked home from Taesung Elementary School in the demilitarized zone. South Korea's lavish propaganda spending is manifest at the school, which has 14 staff members, 14 students, giant television sets, and more computers than the pupils can use.
 Teacher and pupils enjoying a break. Taesung Village, also called Freedom Village, faces North Korea's own model village, called Kijong. (Photographs by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)Map of South Korea highlighting Taesung.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); LANDMINES (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INFORMATION WARFARE (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); MALARIA (60%) Propaganda

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) North Korea; South Korea ; Taesung Village (South Korea); North Korea

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



81 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Turning Genetically Engineered Trees Into Toxic Avengers

BYLINE: By HILLARY ROSNER

 BODY:
Last summer, on the site of 35 former hat factories where toxic mercury was once used to cure pelts, city officials in Danbury, Conn., deployed a futuristic weapon: 160 Eastern cottonwoods.
 Dr. Richard Meagher, a professor of genetics at the University of Georgia, genetically engineered the trees to extract mercury from the soil, store it without being harmed, convert it to a less toxic form of mercury and release it into the air. 
 It was one of two dozen proposals Dr. Meagher has submitted to various agencies over two decades for engineering trees to soak up chemicals from contaminated soil. For years, no one would pay him to try. ''I got called a charlatan,'' he said. ''People didn't believe a plant could do this.'' 
 He will begin to assess the experiment's success this fall. But his is not the only such experiment with trees.
 In laboratories around the country, researchers are using detailed knowledge of tree genes and recombinant DNA technology to alter the genetic workings of forest trees, hoping to tweak their reproductive cycles, growth rate and chemical makeup, to change their ability to store carbon, resist disease and absorb toxins. 
 The research is controversial. Environmentalists and others say that because of the large distances tree pollen can travel, altered genes will migrate to natural populations, leading to damage to ecosystems and other unforeseen consequences. 
 Dr. Jim Diamond, a retired pediatrician who is chairman of the Sierra Club's national genetic engineering committee, sees trees as a bastion of the natural world.
 ''It's quite possible the stands of trees that are left will be domesticated new varieties of trees and the natural varieties will cease to exist,'' he said. ''Where do you draw the line?''
 Dr. Meagher's toxic-avenger trees are intended to remove heavy metals from contaminated soils in places where other forms of cleanup are prohibitively expensive. Because mercury is an element, it cannot be broken down into harmless substances; the Danbury trees release the diluted mercury into the atmosphere, where it dissipates and falls back to earth after a few years. 
 This has opened Dr. Meagher to the charge that he is engaged in a shell game, simply moving toxins from one place to another. He does not disagree, but says the risk of human exposure will be lower if the chemicals are not concentrated in certain areas. In time, he says, such trees may be deployed in places like Bangladesh and India, where mercury- and arsenic-laden drinking water has created a growing health crisis.
 ''I really believe we're on the way to doing something great, and 20 years from now this is how these things will be taken care of,'' he said.
 Tree geneticists are acutely aware that public acceptance will depend at least partly on whether altered trees can be made sterile or their reproductive capacity tightly controlled. 
 Dr. Steven Strauss, a professor of forest science at Oregon State University, directs the Tree Biosafety and Genomics Research Cooperative, a group working on strategies for gene containment, including control of flowering cycles and sterility. He is also exploring ways to link desirable traits to traits that make a tree unlikely to spread.
 ''If you take a gene for herbicide resistance that you don't want to spread, and you link it to a gene that makes a tree shorter and fatter, that's a tree that's not going to be very invasive,'' he said.
 Not everyone is convinced that these containment strategies will work.
 ''Any number of molecular geneticists will tell you, 'Oh, these things are not a problem, we've got various ways of making sure the genes won't function outside of their intended plants,''' said Dr. Yan Linhart, a biologist at the University of Colorado who studies the ecology and evolution of forest trees. ''But just as confident as they are, you will find any number of ecologists and evolutionary biologists like myself who believe in the Missouri motto, 'Show me.''' 
 Dr. Strauss and his colleagues view genetic engineering as a way to ease the pressure for logging in wild forests. If they can engineer trees in a plantation setting that grow faster and possess other desirable commercial traits, they say, then the industry will have less incentive to go after old-growth trees.
 ''It is possible,'' said Dr. Ron Sederoff, a professor of forestry at North Carolina State University, ''that we could engineer trees that are so much better for specific purposes that you wouldn't want to cut down a natural tree.'' 
 Among the goals is the creation of trees that produce less lignin -- a substance similar to plastic that makes wood fibers stiff -- so they can be turned into paper and lumber using fewer chemicals. Lignin production is important to trees in the wild, contributing to the strength of their trunks, but less so on a plantation, where trees will be harvested every few years. Researchers have discovered a link between low lignin and faster growth, which could make the engineered trees desirable for plantation foresters.
 Still, this has not satisfied critics.
 ''Perhaps part of growing faster is that it won't put all this effort into useless pine cones,'' said Dr. Diamond of the Sierra Club, ''so there's no sustenance for the chipmunks. What if the tree in your backyard turns out to be a low-lignin tree but just happens to fall on your house or your car in a moderate wind? There are all kinds of risks besides just my aesthetic problem with remaking nature.''
 Dr. Strauss is also trying to use genetic engineering to address climate change. He wants to create trees that would store more carbon in their root systems -- ''sequestering'' it from the atmosphere, thereby cutting atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping greenhouse gas. In a project sponsored by the Department of Energy, Dr. Strauss and colleagues at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory are modifying tree architecture and cell wall chemistry to increase the amount of carbon stored below ground. 
 Much of the research relies on basic tree genetics -- made easier by the sequencing of the poplar tree genome, a major effort in forest biotechnology whose results are to be made public this month. Scientists can now study classes of genes that affect absorption of sugars and carbohydrates, which in turn can change the chemical processes that affect the rates at which trees rot and release stored carbon. 
 ''In the U.S., there are about 40 million acres of excess, surplus or idle agricultural land,'' said Jerry Tuskan, a researcher at Oak Ridge, who led the effort to sequence the poplar genome. ''If we could economically capture those and deploy fast-growing trees bred and created for carbon sequestration over a 10-year period, we could reach 25 percent of the Kyoto prescription for the U.S.'' The Kyoto treaty, never signed by the United States, calls for reductions in the growth of greenhouse gas emissions.
 The aboveground portion of the trees would be harvested every 10 years and used for ethanol, which Dr. Tuskan believes would offset the use of petroleum and, by extension, carbon dioxide emissions.
 In another forest biotechnology project that has been making strides, researchers are using genetic engineering to produce a disease-resistant strain of American chestnut, a tree that once dominated Eastern forests but was decimated by the mid-20th century by a fungus introduced from Asia. The American chestnut project has proved among the least controversial, in part because the tree's demise was caused by human intervention. 
 Elsewhere, researchers are using forest biotechnology to quicken the pace of traditional breeding experiments. At the University of Georgia's Warnell School of Forest Resources, Dr. Jeffrey Dean monitors individual genes to learn how they react to changes like the addition of fertilizer or the presence of a fungus. 
 Dr. Dean said he had spent the past several years ''philosophizing'' about the genetic engineering of trees, weighing the pros and cons. ''We probably don't want to be thinking about genetic engineering as a magic bullet or cure-all,'' he said. ''There will be times where we may want the magic bullets, but they have to be applied in specific ecological contexts.''
 Said Dr. Linhart of the University of Colorado: ''One always needs to put into the equation biological caution and common sense. It's a case-by-case basis. One has to not make sweeping judgments that say this particular type of activity is all good or all bad.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Steven Strauss believes that genetic engineering of trees can become a way to ease the pressure for logging in wild and old-growth forests. (Photo by Julie Keefe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); BIOETHICS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); DNA (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (58%); SIERRA CLUB (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



82 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: At 5 Buildings, A Day of Pluck And Patienc

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN and JAMES DAO; Reporting for this article was contributed by Janon Fisher, Jason George, Mark Glassman, John Holl, Kristen A. Lee, Michael Luo, Colin Moynihan, Lydia Polgreen, Anthony Ramirez, Ian Urbina and Oren Yaniv.

 BODY:
The lines were longer and the security was tighter, but it was business as usual yesterday at the five financial institutions cited by the Bush administration as possible election-year terrorist targets, and thousands of workers in New York, New Jersey and Washington appeared to take the alert and the precautions in stride.
 There was no panic in the financial markets, either, as investors absorbed the news with apparent confidence. Stocks finished modestly higher.
 A day after the government warned of alarming new intelligence reports citing the specific targets, workers swallowed frustrations, hid butterflies, groused a bit and trooped to work at the New York Stock Exchange and a Citigroup tower in New York, to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington and to the Prudential Financial headquarters in Newark.
 ''I'm definitely not scared, because if anything this place is overprotected,'' Andrew Greene, 40, a computer consultant from Hillsdale, N.J., said as he waited to pass barricades, officers in flak jackets with automatic rifles, security guards, a dog and two checkpoints to get into the stock exchange in Lower Manhattan. But, Mr. Greene added, ''I work here, and it's a pain in the neck to get in.'' 
 Similar comments -- some with a patriotic flavor, others shaded by the acceptance of security as a fact of life now -- were voiced by many workers at the Citigroup and Prudential buildings and at the I.M.F. and the World Bank who encountered long delays getting to work and sometimes unsettling sights of officers patrolling with machine guns or trucks halted for bomb searches. 
 But political leaders from the White House to City Hall were encouraged by the public's response. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who rang the opening bell at the stock exchange in an appearance with Gov. George E. Pataki, said the simple act of people going about their business sent a defiant signal that New Yorkers would not bend to fear and that the economy would keep rolling.
 ''New York City is not going to be cowed by the terrorists,'' the mayor said. ''Make no mistake about that. We are not going to spare any expense protecting ourselves. But also the people of New York City know that giving in to terrorism is exactly the wrong thing to do.''
 Washington, too, shrugged off the terror alert with aplomb, calmly going about its business like a city used to crises.
 ''It doesn't seem to faze people,'' Councilman Jack Evans said. ''We've lived with it so long. It's a topic of discussion: 'Did you hear they might blow up the World Bank.' But it's not like people are saying, 'I'm leaving town,' or 'I'm not going to work.' It's a matter of curiosity more than fear.'' 
 While the security was focused on the five buildings, precautions were also apparent on a wider spectrum: on highways, on bridges and in tunnels where trucks, vans and other vehicles were stopped and searched; at landmarks and at iconic buildings ringed by armed guards; in subways watched by officers with machine guns; in skies where helicopters kept vigil; and on waterways where guards rode the ferries and marine units were on patrol.
 Outside the Citigroup Center, a silvery, 59-story tower at Lexington Avenue and 53rd Street, the line to get in snaked halfway around the block by 8:40 a.m. Gripping coffee containers and reading newspapers, workers shuffled past a large contingent of heavily armed police officers toward an entrance where Citigroup guards inspected handbags, briefcases, anything that might hold a bomb.
 Emilio Funicella, who works on the 46th floor for Merrill Lynch, said he had no hesitation about going to work and was not frightened. ''If God wills it, it will happen,'' Mr. Funicella said. Besides, he said, ''My assistant is going to be at work today. It would look terrible if I wasn't.''
 Claire Nolan, who works at a brokerage firm on the 51st floor, was taking it seriously but not nervously. ''It's disturbing,'' Ms. Nolan said. ''But this is the world we live in after 9/11.''
 But Goe Giamanco, 46, a locksmith in the Citigroup building, surveyed the scene with disgust. ''Look at the garbage that people have to go through to get to work,'' Mr. Giamanco said. ''It looks like we lost some of our freedom. You think people want to come to work and see machine guns?''
 To funnel workers and visitors through a checkpoint at a single entrance on East 53rd Street, security officials closed other entries, including one from the 53rd Street subway station, as well as a public atrium that has been a distinctive feature of the Citigroup Center, a 915-foot tower whose aluminum and glass facade and steeply angled roof make it one of the most recognizable buildings on the skyline.
 Outside the stock exchange, John A. Thain, the exchange's chief executive, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, greeted arriving workers with handshakes. ''We are open for business,'' Mr. Thain declared. He said the intense security would remain for the foreseeable future. 
 ''The bottom line is very simple,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''And that is that the terrorists want to scare us. If every time they made a threat we stopped doing what we're doing, they win. And so we feel it's almost a moral imperative for everybody to go about their jobs. There may be a few butterflies in the stomachs, but you still go forward and do what you have to do.'' 
 Elsewhere in New York, trucks were banned from the Williamsburg Bridge, the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and the Holland Tunnel to cut the flow of large vehicles into Lower Manhattan. From Brooklyn, trucks were diverted onto the Manhattan Bridge, where the police randomly searched. From New Jersey, trucks were diverted to the Lincoln Tunnel and the George Washington Bridge.
 The Police Department and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said that traffic into the city appeared to be lighter than normal.
 Transit police officers conducted a series of sweeps in which all cars of some trains were boarded and inspected at sensitive locations, like the station under the Citigroup Center. Police helicopters patrolled various sites, including the Citigroup Center, and marine units plied the harbor and rivers.
 The Coast Guard said it boarded a German-flag containership off New Jersey last week in response to a tip about a toxic substance on board. Nothing was found, but the ship, the Rio Puelo, lay at anchor and the investigation was continuing. 
 In Newark, workers arriving at the 24-story Prudential tower were confronted with concrete barriers on three sides of the building, a cordon of police officers, many armed with assault rifles, and security guards who zealously scrutinized identity cards, bags and briefcases.
 ''When you hear about it in New York, it's on the other side of the river,'' said Maritza Gonzalez, 44, an office manager from Harrison, N.J., who has worked for 25 years in the building 10 miles west of Manhattan. ''This time, it's here -- it is home.''
 Prudential's chief executive, Arthur F. Ryan, said at a news conference that he was shocked to learn over the weekend that terrorists had come into possession of blueprints of his office and the building where 1,000 of the company's 6,000 workers are employed. Prudential began meetings to inform employees of new security procedures and answer questions.
 In Washington, the police prohibited parking outside the I.M.F. and World Bank headquarters, sprawling buildings several blocks west of the White House. Outside, security officers checked the bushes for bombs and inactive security cameras on nearby streets were switched on.
 For some employees, the increased security and the specificity of the terror warning were cause for concern. ''I definitely came walking down here with my eyes wide open,'' said David Shelton, who works in the World Bank's accounting department. He said he briefly considered not going to work.
 But officials at both institutions said there did not appear to be unusual absenteeism for a midsummer Monday. ''It's August, and we're an international institution,'' said David Theis, a spokesman for the World Bank.
 A few blocks away, at the Ellipse, the park outside the White House, scores of tourists milled about, many showing more concern for thunderclouds than a terrorist attack.
 ''We felt confident it was safe,'' Patricia DeLeon said as she arranged her daughters, 5 and 6, for a photograph. She and her husband, Anthony, heard about the terrorist threat on Sunday at home in San Antonio as they packed for a vacation in Washington and New York. They briefly considered canceling the plans.
 Across town, at the Smithsonian Institution's Air and Space Museum, one of Washington's biggest attractions, business was booming. Officials said yesterday's attendance was near the 18,000 average.
 ''We're not seeing anything here that would indicate people are worried about this,'' Claire Brown, a museum spokeswoman, said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Police officers checking a cab yesterday at 57th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan. Security was tighter everywhere. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 Not everyone reported for business at the Citigroup Center. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); CITIES (68%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Citigroup Center (NYC); Prudential Building (Newark, NJ); Public Opinion; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) New York Stock Exchange; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Robert D Mcfadden; James Dao; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newark (NJ); New Jersey; New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



83 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Why the March Outward?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Dennis Overbye's essay (July 27) needs one more thought to be complete.
 The ''march outward'' into the universe can tell us what is there, but not why. Only the discovery and the study of more subatomic particles can give us a chance to figure out why.
 To learn what the dark matter and dark energy are, and what causes inflation, to understand the origin of matter, and to test approaches such as superstring theory that address these questions, we must have data about the smallest and shortest-lived particles. That data could begin to come from the Large Hadron Collider under construction at CERN in Geneva.

GORDON KANE
Ann Arbor, Mich.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARTICLE PHYSICS (90%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN ORGANIZATION FOR NUCLEAR RESEARCH (CERN) (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



84 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.B.M. Set to Contribute Code to Software Group
I.B.M. plans to announce today that it is contributing more than half a million lines of its software code, valued at $85 million, to an open source software group.
 The move is one of the largest transfers ever of proprietary code to free software. I.B.M. is making the code contribution to try to help make it easier and more appealing for software developers to write applications in the Java programming language. [Page C5.]

Controversy Over Car Loans
In California, battle lines have formed over a practice known as the dealer markup, in which car dealers bump up the interest rates on the loans they offer consumers. [C2.]

P.&G. Posts 44% Profit Increase
Procter & Gamble, the nation's biggest maker of household goods, said that fourth-quarter profit jumped 44 percent, helped by its beauty care business and sales in developing markets like China. Net income, which beat analysts' estimates, rose to $1.37 billion, or 50 cents a share, from $955 million, or 34 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. [C2.]

Animation Studio in Asia Opens
Lucasfilm, the privately held entertainment company formed by the ''Star Wars'' creator George Lucas, said that it had opened a digital animation studio in Singapore to produce movies, television shows and video games. [C4.]

Manufacturing Shows Strength
Manufacturing expanded at a respectable rate in July on strong orders and higher production rates, the Institute for Supply Management reported. But the Commerce Department reported that construction spending slipped 0.3 percent in June. [C4.]

Franklin Settles With S.E.C.
Franklin Advisers, the mutual fund company, agreed to pay $50 million to settle charges of allowing improper trading that violated the funds' written policies, regulators said. [C6.]

Korean Web Operator to Buy Lycos
South Korea's top Web site operator, the Daum Communications Corporation, said that it would buy Lycos, the United States portal business of Spain's Terra. [C6.]

European Banks Report Gains
Some of Europe's biggest banks reported an increase in profits on the back of strong consumer lending. [World Business, Section W.]

Lenders Object to Euro Disney Plans
Some lenders are balking at Euro Disney's plans for a financial restructuring, the company said. [World Business, Section W.]

Fighting Tax Evasion in Philippines
Fresh from winning another six years in office in June's election, Philippines President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo has promised to crack down on tax evasion and corruption as part of a plan to raise government revenues and erase the deficit by 2009. Rampant tax evasion lies behind the deficit, which last year totaled 200.4 billion pesos ($3.6 billion). In the last 12 years, public debt has ballooned to more than $60 billion, and economists say it is dragging down the Philippine economy. [World Business, Section W.]

Continuing Questions About Flight
Accounts continue to differ about Northwest Flight 327. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C6.]

Unbearable Tedium of Trade Shows
Enduring the horrors of conventions and trade shows, including stale air, fluorescent glare, long lines, throbbing feet, tedious lectures and faraway bathrooms. Business Travel. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,179.16 up 39.45Nasdaq composite -- 1,892.09 up 4.7310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.45% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2031 up 0.0011The dollar -- 110.80 yen down 0.42Graph: ''TODAY'' shows personal income.June figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph tracks share prices of Procter & Gamble for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ANIMATION (71%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); FILM (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); TOYS & GAMES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); CORRUPTION (63%); NEW CAR DEALERS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DAUM COMMUNICATIONS CORP (81%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); EURO DISNEY SCA (55%)

TICKER: 035720 (KSE) (81%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); EDL (PAR) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (50%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



85 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Philippines Leader Takes Aim at Income Tax Evaders

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
When the Philippine Supreme Court revived a failed tax evasion case against one of the country's richest men last month, it cited a legal doctrine that most American taxpayers know all too well.
 ''The principle is well established,'' the court said, ''that taxes are the lifeblood of the government, and every citizen is duty-bound to pay taxes and to pay taxes in the right amount.''
 Even if the principle is well established, in the Philippines the practice is not. Rampant tax evasion lies behind the government's nagging budget deficit, which last year totaled 200.4 billion pesos ($3.6 billion). In the last 12 years, public debt has ballooned to more than $60 billion, and economists say it is dragging down the Philippine economy. 
 Now, fresh from winning another six years in office in June's election, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo has promised to crack down on tax evasion and corruption as part of a plan to raise government revenues and erase the deficit by 2009.
 ''I pledge to collect taxes mandated by law, even as I stop extortion masquerading as tax collection,'' she said in her inaugural address on June 30.
 In late July, Mrs. Arroyo outlined eight measures, including higher taxes on petroleum products, alcohol and cigarettes; replacing taxes on net profits with a tax on gross income; and replacing the country's widely abused value-added tax.
 Analysts and investors remain skeptical, largely because they have heard this kind of talk from Mrs. Arroyo before. Since she took over after the ouster of President Joseph E. Estrada in a bloodless ''people power'' uprising in 2001, she has vowed to fight corruption and put the government's finances on an even keel.
 Mrs. Arroyo's government has mastered the art of setting deficit goals to which it can at least come close. After posting a record deficit of $3.9 billion in 2002, it managed to shrink the deficit 5 percent last year and now aims to limit the gap to $3.5 billion this year. But in the first half, the deficit exceeded the government's goal of $1.42 billion by $10 million.
 Analysts warn the government may need to move more quickly to prevent a fiscal crisis as rising global interest rates push up the cost of borrowing. ''They at least managed to stop the rot, but what they now need is to improve it further,'' said Agost Benard, associate director of sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor's in Singapore.
 The $4.8 billion in interest the Philippine government pays each year consumes more than a third of its budget, leaving about a fifth of the budget for spending on infrastructure and alleviating poverty in a country where two of every five people live on less than $2 a day. 
 At least half the public debt is foreign. That, and concerns about the country's ability to repay it, have tended to push down the value of the Philippine peso, which sank to a record low during the presidential campaign on concerns that Mrs. Arroyo would lose to a popular action star with no political experience and no stated economic platform.
 Mrs. Arroyo now has the electoral mandate that she lacked while serving out Mr. Estrada's term -- and her party has gained a majority of the Senate. Still, many analysts say, Mrs. Arroyo is no match for the family-based patronage networks that control Philippine politics and the economy.
 Such skepticism is part of a pervasive pessimism that has developed among seasoned investors in Asia about the Philippines. 
 Despite abundant natural resources and one of the region's best-educated populations, corruption, bureaucracy and political instability have almost extinguished investor interest in the Philippines. Foreign direct investment fell last year to $319 million, from $1.8 billion in early 2001. Big brokerages like Merrill Lynch of the United States and Nomura Securities of Japan pulled up stakes long ago.
 Although Mrs. Arroyo is a former economics professor, economists give her only middling marks for her performance as president. The Philippine economy continued to grow during the global recession, and economists expected it to expand by 5 percent this year on rising demand for its electronics exports. But it is not growing fast enough to absorb new job entrants. Unemployment has risen to 11 percent, forcing roughly 8 million Filipinos -- a tenth of the population -- to seek work overseas. 
 Mrs. Arroyo has also failed to surmount political opposition to the sale of government-owned companies. Instead, the government appears to have settled for trying to turn around companies like the National Power Corporation, which lost $1.8 billion last year. ''The idea is they should be run more efficiently and more lucratively so they can contribute more to national coffers,'' Mrs. Arroyo's cabinet secretary, Ricardo Saludo, said.
 Incessant political sniping has taken an emotional toll on policy makers as well. In December 2002, Mrs. Arroyo announced that she had had enough of what she called the poisonous political climate and that she would not run in this year's election, focusing instead on the economy. Mrs. Arroyo said at the time that since her political opponents continued to attack her in spite of her pledge not to run, she had concluded after much prayer and a meeting with the pope that she would not be able to escape political slings and arrows and might as well run. 
 Many pundits dismissed her move as an election feint, but last November Mrs. Arroyo's finance secretary, a former investment banker who was popular among foreign investors, resigned, saying political battles had exhausted him. His resignation sent the peso tumbling, and he was not alone. The under secretary of finance, Eric Recto, resigned with him but agreed to stay on. 
 Analysts now say Mrs. Arroyo may have promised an impossible combination of taxes and spending. While vowing to balance the budget in five years, Mrs. Arroyo has also promised to provide clean water and electricity to every village, build 3,000 schools and create a million jobs a year. 
 And she has promised to reduce corruption, regarded by many as endemic and rampant. 
 Perhaps nowhere else is corruption so deeply entrenched as at the country's tax authority, the Bureau of Internal Revenue. Official complicity in tax evasion, though undocumented, is so widely suspected that Congress once considered abolishing the bureau altogether and building a new tax body from scratch.
 Tax revenues in the Philippines amount to only 14.5 percent of gross domestic product, ranking it behind every other nation in Asia but Laos and Cambodia. Last year, according to one bureau official, the bureau collected only $1.6 billion in personal income taxes from less than 2 million individuals in a country with a population of 86.2 million. 
 Mrs. Arroyo has tried repeatedly to fix the bureau, with mixed success. Provincial tax officials sued when her first appointee as the bureau's commissioner tried to move them and uproot their patronage networks. After a bomb threat at his office, he resigned.
 The bureau's new commissioner has taken a different tack, trying to uproot corruption by replacing many tax officials with computers. A new system that reconciles corporate sales reports with their tax declarations -- a process previously performed by hand -- uncovered at least $1.3 billion in underpayments in its first year of operation.
 The government has also begun scrutinizing the lifestyles and spending habit of bureau officials, an exercise that last month resulted in the dismissal of a bureau lawyer who had amassed $375,900 despite having been paid only $44,750 in salary in 22 years at the bureau.
 Meanwhile, thousands of tax evasion cases are languishing in the justice system, some of them a decade old or older. Lawyers at the bureau say they are able to pursue only a few hundred of the cases. 
 Now the Supreme Court has essentially ordered them to pursue one of the biggest. In 1999, a local judge dismissed a 20 billion peso tax evasion case against Lucio Tan and one of his companies, Fortune Tobacco, on a technicality. In July, the Supreme Court reversed that decision, reinstated the charges and ordered the same court to rehear the case. 
 ''That will serve notice to some taxpayers that cases that were almost dead may be reopened again,'' said Nelson Aspe, chief of staff to the Bureau of Internal Revenue's Deputy Commissioner. ''It will serve as a deterrent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo of the Philippines said she would crack down on official corruption and income tax evasion. (Photo by Rolex dela Pena/European Pressphoto Agency)Chart: ''Deeper in Debt''The Philippine government is working to address its budget shortfalls.Graph tracks Philippine budget deficit (billion pesos, excluding revenue from privatization) from 1992-2004. (2004 projected)(Source by Standard & Poor's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (95%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SOVEREIGN RISK (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (74%); POLITICS (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Taxation; Politics and Government; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Tax Evasion

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (90%) Gloria Macapagal (Pres) Arroyo; Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%) Philippines

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



86 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: California Dealers Win Ally on Car Bill

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
If buying a car seems to be a complicated and daunting process, consider a dispute that recently emerged in California over regulation of just one small piece of the puzzle. 
 Last week, the Schwarzenegger administration sided with California car dealers in opposing a bill that would, among other things, curb a practice that consumer groups say routinely inflates the cost of car loans, especially for minority customers. 
 The bill is the most ambitious attempt in the nation to limit the practice, known as the dealer markup, in which car dealers bump up the interest rates on the loans they offer consumers on behalf of banks or financing companies, including the automakers' finance arms. The dealers, who keep the markups as profit, charge them on some customers' loans and not others. 
 All major automakers, as well as some banks, have been sued by minority customers who claim that dealers discriminate against them in the way they selectively apply markups. 
 Consumer groups have also criticized markups more generally, saying they are often invisible to all but the most knowledgeable car shoppers, and that they make the loans much more expensive than those a customer could get directly from a bank or credit union. 
 Even the California official who laid out the administration's opposition to the bill, in a letter sent last week to its sponsor, said in an interview that he did not have a clear understanding of how the financing process worked, and that his stance on markups was based on the arguments of lobbyists for the car dealers.
 In his letter, Bill Cather, the assistant director for legislation at the Department of Motor Vehicles, said that regulation of markups would unfairly single out dealers. But when he was asked to explain his statements, he said, ''You've chosen the one part of my letter where I'm most vulnerable, because the department doesn't have oversight of financing.''
 He added that financing ''is not my area of expertise.'' 
 Mr. Cather said his greatest concern about the bill involved a section unrelated to markups, which would give buyers the right to return a used car to a dealer within three days of purchase for a nearly full refund. Some other states already have such ''cooling-off'' periods for car purchases. 
 The bill would limit dealer markups to two percentage points on loans up to 60 months, and to one point on longer loans. 
 ''I do not think it's a bad idea for consumers, certainly in those circumstances where the consumer is not as sophisticated as he or she might be,'' Mr. Cather said in the interview. But he said that groups representing car dealers had offered testimony in legislative hearings that the measure would ''have an impact on their bottom line.''
 Car dealers, who were important contributors to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's election campaign, have said that loan markups are legitimate fees that they earn for arranging loans, and that they need the flexibility to make profits where they can. 
 ''The car business is a high-risk business,'' said Peter Welch, president of the California Motor Car Dealers Association. ''The dealer has an amount they have to average per car to stay in business. Say it's $800 per car. It doesn't matter where they make it, whether on the service contract or the finance spread or the floor mats. But unless they can make it, it's not worth being in business anymore.''
 Last month, consumer groups publicized a study showing that dealers arranging loans using Honda's financing subsidiary were twice as likely to charge markups to black buyers than white buyers, and that the average additional cost to the black buyers with marked-up loans was $1,108, compared with $698 for whites. 
 The report is being submitted as evidence in lawsuits pending against Honda in federal court in Tennessee and in California state court. Nissan and General Motors have settled similar suits and agreed to restrict their dealers' markups, with G.M.'s lending arm agreeing to a cap of 2.5 percentage points on loans up to 60 months. 
 ''The markups are arbitrary and discriminatory,'' said State Assemblywoman Cindy Montanez, a Democrat from the San Fernando Valley who sponsored the California bill. ''It's not transparent, and lenders are abusing it and taking advantage of consumers.''
 Mr. Cather, in his letter to Assemblywoman Montanez, wrote that ''a one-size-fits-all prohibition does not recognize the realities of the marketplace, nor the special circumstances involved in obtaining credit for those with poor or no prior credit histories.'' 
 Critics of the markups said the borrower's creditworthiness is already fully reflected in the financing institution's original interest rate on the loan. Mr. Cather's objection ''is a ridiculous argument,'' said Stuart Rossman, a lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center, which represents some plaintiffs in the suits against the carmakers. ''All of the risk is assumed by the finance company.''
 Mr. Welch of the California Motor Car Dealers Association said that even so, arranging loans for people with poor credit is more time-consuming and expensive because their finances often are in disarray. 
 ''With many of those people, it takes hours to get credit information,'' he said. If their markups are capped, he said, ''dealers won't take the time because the risk won't be worth the reward.''
 Mr. Cather also argued that the California bill is unfair because it would not impose any limits on banks, finance companies or credit unions that make car loans directly to consumers. 
 But there is no intermediary involved in the loans to mark them up the way car dealers do; the banks and finance companies make their profits on the loans themselves. 
 ''It should be a big surprise to anybody that a Department of Motor Vehicles that is supposed to protect consumers writes a letter of opposition to what is one of the strongest consumer protection measures in the Legislature,'' Assemblywoman Montanez said. 
 Bill Branch, a spokesman for the department, said, ''The claim that D.M.V. cares more about auto dealers than the car-buying public is patently false. It just isn't true.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A sign advertised the financing rate at a used car lot in Santa Monica, Calif., yesterday. California auto dealers say markups are legitimate fees they earn for arranging loans and represent one source of profit. (Photo by Robert Galbraith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); LOBBYING (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%) Automobiles; Credit; Interest Rates; Law and Legislation; Consumer Protection; Minorities; Discrimination; Suits and Litigation; Automobiles

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%) Danny Hakim; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) California

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



87 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Worrisome, Gritty, Summer in the City; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: On a Proud Ozone Park Block, Just Getting By Is a Struggle

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
It is another hot summer afternoon on the block, but the familiar scherzo of city life -- the music-box trill of an ice cream truck, the clip-clop of children in sneakers running after a ball -- is momentarily drowned out by a white muscle car with black racing stripes screeching down 103rd Street in Ozone Park the wrong way.
 ''That's Patty Boy, from across the street,'' Letizia Matriciano says to her niece Carmela, sitting next to her in a folding chair on the sidewalk. ''How come he makes so much noise?''
 The Camaro's chronic roar is not the only discordant note on 103rd Street this summer, one year after Mrs. Matriciano and others who live or work here were profiled in a series of articles about the city's worst financial crisis in a decade. Back then, the clamor on the street was the alarm Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had raised over a $3.8 billion shortfall in the city budget. And the series set out to explore how his drastic efforts to balance the budget would play out on this single block in Queens, whose mix of incomes and ethnicities mirrors the diversity of New York. 
 Nearly everybody on the block -- a homely stretch of sagging front stoops, tidy backyards, illegal basement apartments and perpetual battles over parking spaces -- felt the financial pinch when Mr. Bloomberg raised property taxes and made limited cuts in services. At the same time, rents, water rates, transit fares and tolls all went up, making it a summer of discontent like few others in memory. 
 A year later, it is clear that no one starved or went homeless. People here are neither filthy rich nor dirt poor; most are used to struggling just to get by. So just as they have had to get used to the screech of tires, they have found ways to bear the extra financial burdens -- often with help from one another -- while savoring small pleasures like having an elegant party or replacing a treasured tree. 
 Against the backdrop of the city, these small triumphs and struggles can go unnoticed. But viewed up close, they are a means of measuring how all New Yorkers are faring. 
 This summer the city has another new budget, with enough money in it for Mayor Bloomberg to promise homeowners a $400 property tax rebate and declare the fiscal crisis all but over.
 But few people here agree. Certainly not Mrs. Matriciano, now 76, who never stops worrying. She still enjoys sitting under the old sycamore tree outside the house her son Frank owns on 103rd Street. But after the city raised property taxes by 18.5 percent last year and increased the assessed value of the two-story frame building, he said he had to choose between selling it and raising the rent on his mother and his cousin Carmela, who lives upstairs. 
 Last September, Mr. Matriciano reluctantly raised his mother's rent to $650 a month, an increase of $150. But he said most of the extra money actually goes to help her pay her telephone and electric bills, and buy medicine she needs to control her diabetes. 
 ''The money doesn't end up in my pocket, believe me,'' he said. 
 In these hard times, Mrs. Matriciano has come to rely more than ever on the Ozone Park Senior Center, in the basement of St. Mary Gate of Heaven Roman Catholic Church on 101st Avenue. For a contribution of $1.50, she can eat and play cards with friends. 
 The center, run by Catholic Charities, has been spared cuts in city funding but is being squeezed because the prices of insurance, milk, food and gasoline have all soared. 
 ''We're absorbing the deficit,'' said Donna Corrado, director of government relations and public policy for Catholic Charities. ''We've cut back on programming, cut back on staff, switched over to a bulk purchasing model, and now we're at the tipping point.'' 
 It costs more now to prepare the center's daily meals, but the older people who come can eat even if they cannot pay anything. Mrs. Matriciano says she is ashamed to take anything for nothing; when she does not have the money, she stays home. 

A White Suit, a Black Suit
 Pride runs thick on this block of old-timers and immigrants, each with dreams to cherish and honor to uphold. For Rosemere and Danny Messina, that meant celebrating their son Danny Jr.'s first Holy Communion with a party big enough to accommodate his large Italian-American family, and meet their expectations. 
 On their meager salaries -- she is a hairdresser at Salvatore's Unisex Barbershop on the corner of 103rd Street, and he is a custodian at a Queens library -- it would take a big effort to pay for such a party. They had started to put $10 a week into a special party envelope. But they both ride the subway, and when fares went up by 50 cents last year, much of their planned savings was wiped out.
 After their story was published last June, readers responded, mailing in checks and small bills along with notes of encouragement. Mrs. Messina, 38, who came to New York from Brazil 14 years ago, initially refused to accept the money -- that old pride thing again. But her mother in Brazil persuaded her to take the money, for Danny's sake. 
 She did. On a sparkling day in early May, with Danny Jr. , now 8, looking sharp in a new white suit with the label still sewn to the sleeve, they held a splendid party at one of the best Italian restaurants in Howard Beach. The whole family was there, the red wine flowed, and Mr. and Mrs. Messina beamed. 
 ''This is the way it's supposed to be,'' said Mr. Messina, 36. 
 For a while, things seemed to be getting easier for them. After his union signed a new contract with the city, Mr. Messina was in line for a 5 percent wage increase over three years and a one-time $1,000 bonus. Mrs. Messina was working steadily at Sal's and expected to pick up extra hours. 
 But people around here knock on wood whenever they say that times are good. Just two weeks after the party, Mr. Messina was embroiled in a dispute that cost him his job at the library. He is going through arbitration and hopes to be back to work by October. 
 Until then, he is working as a pallbearer for the Francisco Funeral Home, across the street from Sal's barbershop. He puts on the black suit he used to wear to union meetings and carries coffins into and out of church services. 
 ''I do odds and ends, this and that, and we get by,'' Mr. Messina said in the funeral home. ''Thanks to these people.'' 

Family Tree
 That's the way it sometimes is on the block, neighbors offering each other as much help as the city. Richard Francisco, the 27-year-old son of the funeral parlor's owner, said he was glad to help Mr. Messina through rough times, but his family is facing its own challenges. It hurts to have to pay sharply higher taxes on several pieces of property, he said, and with 15 limousines and flower cars in their fleet, the spike in gasoline prices has poked a hole in their pockets. 
 But people still die, and life goes on. Mr. Francisco popped the question last July, and he and his fiancee, Rita, have set a date -- Sept. 25, 2005 -- for a wedding at Gate of Heaven. After a honeymoon, they will be right back on the block. Like his older brother Ralph Jr., who lives with his wife and baby girl in an apartment over the funeral home, Richard Francisco plans to live next door, renting a small house owned by his grandmother, Antoinette, who has become the block's unofficial conservation officer.
 Last year, Mrs. Francisco complained about how a budget crisis was no excuse for the city's maddening unresponsiveness. She had tried for several years to get two maple trees at the curb trimmed. The Parks Department finally showed up last July, but the trees were so badly damaged that the city workers cut both to the ground and eventually replaced them with flowering cherry saplings. 
 The trees bloomed nicely this spring, but then someone snapped one of them in half. Mrs. Francisco, 85, was furious and got on the phone again. The city finally replaced the broken tree last month. To protect it, Richard Francisco slathered it with grease so no would-be vandal could get a grip on it again. And from her apartment above the funeral home, Antoinette Francisco keeps a watchful eye on the block. 
 ''I'm not as pushy as I used to be,'' she said, ''but if I hear a noise near the trees I'll look out and tell whoever's there to get the hell out of there.'' 

Between Stops
 Few trees grow along 103rd Street anymore, and by late afternoon in summer, the sidewalks bake, while the asphalt streets get so hot they turn squishy. Still, George Mena and Miriam Estevez prefer being outside to being inside their apartment on 103rd because the air-conditioner isn't working. 
 But that's a small worry, like buying a MetroCard for the subway, because now, for the first time in a long while, both of them have regular jobs. 
 ''When you're working, everything is different,'' said Mr. Mena, 39. A year ago, he was a subway-riding motorcycle mechanic, so behind on his bills that his hair was falling out from worry. She was a cashier at a Times Square corporate cafeteria, in deep trouble for taking an unexcused day off to move from one apartment on 103rd Street to another. When transit fares went up, just getting to work put a strain on their battered budget.
 Now, at the beginning of every week, Mr. Mena buys an unlimited-ride weekly MetroCard, which gets him to his new job as a $12-an-hour plumber's assistant in Manhattan as well as to the motorcycle repair jobs all over the city that still come his way. Ms. Estevez takes the subway before dawn to her new, better-paying job at a coffee stand in the same building where she worked last year. 
 They are slowly paying off the money they owe Con Edison, and they have paid off two of the three months' back rent they owe their landlord. Although Ms. Estevez still shops for furniture at the thrift store on 101st Avenue run by the St. Vincent de Paul Society, she felt that her family was finally getting ahead. 
 Then, a week ago, the landlord sent an eviction notice, turning their lives upside down again. And the Metropolitan Transportation Authority threatened to raise fares again, increasing the weekly pass to $24 from $21. A year had passed, but they, like many others on the block, seemed trapped in the same place. 
 ''That is the problem for us,'' Ms. Estevez said. ''We're always trying to catch up, but there's always something trying to stop us.'' 
 By now it was late afternoon. One side of 103rd Street was in the shade, while the other was blasted by the late-afternoon sun. 
 Another day on the block. 

Hard Times
 Articles in this series have examined the impact of New York's fiscal problems on the people who live, work and spend time on a single city block in Ozone Park, Queens. Earlier articles in the series remain online at nytimes.com/nyregion.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Danny Messina Jr.'s first Holy Communion was a big party, thanks to his Ozone Park parents' savings and others' gifts.
Antoinette Francisco offers a cherry sapling her protection. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
George Mena and Miriam Estevez, with son, Ethan, have changed jobs amid financial pressures. They received an eviction notice from the landlord of their 103rd Street apartment.
Letizia Matriciano, 76, at home in Ozone Park, never stops worrying. Her son, who is also her landlord, had to raise her rent by $150. Mrs. Matriciano relies on the nearby senior center at the church for relief.
 Ralph and Erika Francisco live with their daughter, Riley, in an apartment above the family's funeral home, which is battling rising costs. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B3)Map of Queens highlighting Ozone Park. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ICE CREAM (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); STARVATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX RELIEF (64%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Surveys and Series; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%) Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; Ozone Park (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



88 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Tight Race With a Few Gains for Kerry

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Janet Elder contributed reporting from New York for this article, and Thomas Crampton from Florida.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry emerged from a high-profile month in which he announced a running mate and accepted the Democratic Party's presidential nomination with little overall change in his tight race against President Bush, according to weekend polls. But Mr. Kerry apparently succeeded in raising his standing over Mr. Bush on issues of critical concern to voters, including Iraq and the economy, the polls found.
 Three surveys conducted since Mr. Kerry accepted the nomination on Thursday in Boston found that the contest between him and Mr. Bush remained, as measured as a head-to-head contest, little different from when Mr. Kerry chose John Edwards as his vice-presidential running mate, an announcement that marked the start of three weeks of unrivaled attention and largely favorable news coverage. The two presidential candidates were either tied or Mr. Kerry had a slight lead.
 It was the smallest postconvention bounce enjoyed by any challenger since George McGovern was nominated in the middle of the night by a divided Democratic Party in Miami in 1972, said Frank Newport, the editor in chief of the Gallup Poll. 
 Pollsters said such little movement after the extravaganza of a convention and a vice-presidential selection underlined how tight and frozen the contest was, and suggested an electorate that had largely made up its mind and was resistant to the kind of gyrations typical in most presidential campaigns. Some pollsters said that in this environment, slight shifts in voter sentiment that could prove significant on Election Day might not be picked up in national polls. The pollsters also said voter opinions of Mr. Kerry's qualifications had improved markedly.
 Mr. Kerry's pollster, Mark Mellman, pointed to an ABC News/Washington Post poll, a CBS News poll, and a CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll, which all showed that Americans' views of Mr. Kerry had improved after a convention that had sought to build up his security and foreign policy credentials. The Gallup Poll found that an equal number of Americans -- 48 percent -- said they trusted Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry to ''handle the responsibilities of commander in chief of the military.'' Before the convention, Mr. Bush led Mr. Kerry on that question 51 percent to 43 percent. 
 ''All the numbers suggest that this convention was a huge success,'' Mr. Mellman said. ''The one thing you don't see is a big change in the horse race, but you can't have a change in an election like this.''
 Still, the emerging data would seem to be less than welcome news for the Kerry campaign as Mr. Bush prepares to reclaim the stage this month with announcements of antiterrorism measures, a heavy schedule of campaigning and his own convention in New York. 
 The numbers also mean that the two cleanest shots Mr. Kerry had for presenting himself to the American public until Election Day -- his choice of a vice president and his acceptance speech -- have passed without producing any dramatic change in the contours of the contest. 
 For all of the Kerry aides' efforts to play down expectations, Democrats were looking for him to break through the long deadlock and allay concerns that voters were reluctant to embrace Mr. Kerry, even if they were unhappy with Mr. Bush. 
 Going into the convention, Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic National Committee chairman, predicted that Mr. Kerry would enjoy an eight-point gain in support after the convention. Mr. McAuliffe did not return telephone calls on Monday. 
 Also before the election, a senior Bush political adviser, Matthew Dowd, distributed a memorandum arguing that based on history, Mr. Kerry should gain at least 15 points, though most independent pollsters called that projection unrealistic in such a tight race.
 The polling results could fan questions about Mr. Kerry's recent strategic decisions, like a convention speech that was heavier on attacks on Mr. Bush than new proposals, and the military salute he offered to the delegates, a gesture that many Democrats have called either gutsy or contrived.
 ''Look -- the polls are showing he did an excellent job of closing some of the security gap,'' said Mark Penn, a Democratic pollster who worked for the Clinton White House, ''but it's very difficult to move voters in this environment and they are looking for him to offer some additional positive ideas of what he would do to move the country in the right direction.''.
 Mr. Penn added: ''It doesn't seem that either Bush or Kerry are appealing to voters on the basis of their agenda. I think voters are saying they want to know from both these candidates exactly about what they are going to do.''
 Campaigning in Florida on Monday, Mr. Edwards dismissed in particular the Gallup/USA Today poll, which found that Mr. Kerry had not gained any advantage in the past month. ''There are multiple other polls, ABC, CBS and others that have us with a significant lead,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''The truth is that polls are going to go up and down, it is going to be a close competitive race.''
 Mr. Bush's aides embraced the polls, saying that they were proof of what they had long argued was Mr. Kerry's shortcoming as a candidate. They said that historically it suggested that Mr. Kerry had little chance of winning in November.
 ''This is a huge problem for them because now they have a situation where having John Kerry talk to the American public is at best neutral and at worst negative,'' Mr. Dowd said. ''And their announced strategy to keep positive is putting them in a box at a time when they might want to be attacking the president.''
 Mr. Dowd added: ''The time that John Kerry did the best in this campaign was when he was off the radar screen.''
 Some pollsters, and Mr. Kerry's aides, suggested the situation was not so clear in a year that had proved unconventional. Mr. Newport said that his poll found voter interest as high now as it normally was near Election Day, and speculated that that might mean that this year, at least, the political convention was not the breakthrough moment it had been in the past. 
 ''A fundamental characteristic of this campaign so far is how stable the numbers are,'' he said. ''It may just be that conventions aren't playing the role they once had of getting people to focus.''
 Indeed, with one critical exception -- protecting Americans from terrorism, where Mr. Bush continues to enjoy a huge advantage over Mr. Kerry -- the underlying trends pollsters look for at this point in a campaign suggest potential for Mr. Kerry and problems for the president. Americans want a change in the direction of the country, give Mr. Bush relatively low job approval grades and say Mr. Kerry will do a better job on the economy and health care.
 Doug Sosnik, who was Mr. Clinton's political director, described speculation about a postconvention bounce as irrelevant in this election. 
 ''The only two things that matter are the percentage of people that think that Bush deserves to be re-elected and the percentage of people that are prepared to vote for him -- nothing else matters,'' Mr. Sosnik said. ''And this president is getting nowhere near half the vote.''
 The CBS News Poll found that 49 percent said they would vote for Mr. Kerry today and 43 percent for Mr. Bush. The numbers were nearly identical two weeks earlier, when 49 percent said they would vote for Mr. Kerry and 44 percent said they would vote for Mr. Bush.
 The Post/ABC News poll found Mr. Kerry had a lead of 50 percent to 44 percent for Mr. Bush among registered voters, with Ralph Nader drawing 2 percentage points. Before the convention, Mr. Bush had 48 percent, compared with 46 percent for Mr. Kerry.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign manager, Mary Beth Cahill, said the fact that Mr. Kerry was leading Mr. Bush at least in some polls, albeit by a tiny margin, was heartening.
 ''We're leading the president coming out of the convention and there are only three challengers in that position and they all won,'' Ms. Cahill said. ''The White House can say whatever they want about this. We've had a very good convention.'


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards yesterday at a rally in Miami. He dismissed a poll showing the Democratic ticket had not raised its standing among voters. (Photo by J. Pat Carter/Associated Press)(pg. A17)Chart: ''Postconvention Poll Ratings''John Kerry did not receive an overall boost in poll ratings from the Democratic convention . . .CBS News Poll:Kerry/EdwardsBEFORE: 49%AFTER: 49%Bush/CheneyBEFORE: 44%AFTER: 43%CNN/USA Today/Gallup Poll:Kerry/EdwardsBEFORE: 49AFTER: 48Bush/CheneyBEFORE: 45AFTER: 48ABC News/Washington Post Poll:Kerry/EdwardsBEFORE: 46AFTER: 50Bush/CheneyBEFORE: 48AFTER: 44Nader/CamejoBEFORE: 3AFTER: 2. . . but did gain public confidence on certain issues.Gallup Poll:Who do you trust more to handle the responsibilities of commander in chief of the military John Kerry or George Bush?John KerryBEFORE: 43%AFTER: 48%George BushBEFORE: 51AFTER: 48ABC News/Washington Post Poll:Who do you trust to do a better job handling the situation in Iraq?John KerryBEFORE: 40AFTER: 48George BushBEFORE: 52AFTER: 46Based on nationwide telephone surveys of registered voters. Each of the latest polls has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Cbs News Poll; Cnn/usa Today/gallup Poll; Presidential Election of 2004; Abc News/washington Post Poll; News and News Media; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Gallup Organization

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Frank Newport

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



89 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: A Surprise at Prudential: It's a Terror Target

BYLINE: By JASON GEORGE and DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J., Aug. 2 

 BODY:
News that Newark had appeared on a list of specific terrorist targets surprised many here, but none more than the employees of Prudential Financial Inc.
 According to government officials, the main building of the insurance company headquarters has been made a target by terrorists. The 24-story gray stone structure, Prudential Plaza, which takes up an entire city block, is in the heart of downtown, blocks from Newark Pennsylvania Station.
 ''I was watching the news this weekend, and I was wondering: why the Prudential?'' asked George Binaday, a Prudential systems support worker. ''I heard that it's a business icon, but it didn't make sense.'' 
 But business and civic leaders said on Monday that an attack on Newark and Prudential Plaza would, unfortunately, make perfect sense, striking the city and its economy in a way that an attack against the airport or seaport never could.
 ''Newarkers are very proud of Prudential,'' said Modia Butler, executive director of Newark Now, a citizens' advocacy group. ''The company was there before the riots,'' he said, referring to the 1967 riots that devastated the city already famous for its poverty. ''And it stuck with the city after the riots.''
 The history of Newark and the company became intertwined in 1875, when John Dryden started selling life insurance from a small office here. The company has grown in the past 129 years to occupy three office buildings within blocks of each other -- nearly 2 million square feet, housing 6,000 employees, 1,000 of whom are in the plaza building.
 Prudential has come to be seen as a vital benefactor to a city that has had few faithful and consistent corporate friends. It helped build the Meadowlands sports complex and supported the New Jersey Performing Arts Center -- whose main auditorium is named Prudential Hall -- and its foundation has given almost $400 million to charity. 
 ''Prudential is the first place people go to look in doing community projects and to do good things,'' said Brendan T. Byrne, the former New Jersey governor, one of three ex-governors who have served on Prudential's board of directors after their terms ended. 
 Until 2001, in fact, when the company went public, a state law dictated that the chief justice of the state's Supreme Court selected 6 of Prudential's 24 directors.
 The state's elected officials rushed to offer support and praise for Prudential on Monday.
 ''Mr. Art Ryan, the Prudential -- they have been extraordinary,'' said Gov. James E. McGreevey, referring to the company's chief executive and chairman, Arthur F. Ryan, while visiting the Plaza complex for an hour Monday afternoon. Later in the day Mayor Sharpe James, at a separate news conference to discuss the threat, said Prudential's vital presence here might be new to the world but not to Newark residents.
 While he questioned who would pay for the extra security, Mr. James said, ''We're proud they have always called Newark their home base.''
 Prudential officials tried to assure their employees that they had taken every precaution and that the building was safe. Streets on either side remained closed, and on Broad Street, at the front entrance, large trucks from the homeland security division of the Newark Police Department and police cars were stationed, and 12 officers dressed in black military-type clothing, carrying M-16s and submachine guns, stood at alert. 
 Despite the heavy security presence, fewer people seemed to be at work on Monday. ''I think a lot of people took off,'' said Mike Marton, who works for Prudential in an office near the Plaza building, where he had gone to see the black-clad police.
 For many of those who did make it into the office, the events were too distracting to get any work done, employees said. ''I have not done anything to this point,'' Jason King, who works in financial reporting, said Monday morning. ''I don't anticipate it being a productive day.''
 Mr. Ryan, the Prudential chairman, said that he understood employees' concerns, given that the front of his company's headquarters now resembles a military checkpoint, but that he hoped normalcy would return soon. ''People are coming to work,'' he said. 
 ''Employees have told me,'' he added, ''though they certainly feel anxious, there is certainly a sense that we want to have business as usual.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In New Jersey, the Port Authority police pulled over trucks heading over the George Washington Bridge yesterday. Officials had warned that trucks would be searched as far as 20 miles from suspected targets. (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)
 A Newark Emergency Services Unit officer outside the cordoned-off Prudential building on Broad Street in Newark on Sunday. (Photo by Warren Westura for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); GOVERNORS (86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CHARITIES (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); RIOTS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Terrorism

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Prudential Financial Inc

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%)

PERSON: ARTHUR F RYAN (51%) Jason George; Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



90 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Reading the Script

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A message to my fellow journalists: check out media watch sites like campaigndesk.org, mediamatters.org and dailyhowler.com. It's good to see ourselves as others see us. I've been finding The Daily Howler's concept of a media ''script,'' a story line that shapes coverage, often in the teeth of the evidence, particularly helpful in understanding cable news.
 For example, last summer, when growth briefly broke into a gallop, cable news decided that the economy was booming. The gallop soon slowed to a trot, and then to a walk. But judging from the mail I recently got after writing about the slowing economy, the script never changed; many readers angrily insisted that my numbers disagreed with everything they had seen on TV. 
 If you really want to see cable news scripts in action, look at the coverage of the Democratic convention.
 Commercial broadcast TV covered only one hour a night. We'll see whether the Republicans get equal treatment. C-Span, on the other hand, provided comprehensive, commentary-free coverage. But many people watched the convention on cable news channels -- and what they saw was shaped by a script portraying Democrats as angry Bush-haters who disdain the military. 
 If that sounds like a script written by the Republicans, it is. As the movie ''Outfoxed'' makes clear, Fox News is for all practical purposes a G.O.P. propaganda agency. A now-famous poll showed that Fox viewers were more likely than those who get their news elsewhere to believe that evidence of Saddam-Qaeda links has been found, that W.M.D. had been located and that most of the world supported the Iraq war.
 CNN used to be different, but Campaign Desk, which is run by The Columbia Journalism Review, concluded after reviewing convention coverage that CNN ''has stooped to slavish imitation of Fox's most dubious ploys and policies.'' Seconds after John Kerry's speech, CNN gave Ed Gillespie, the Republican Party's chairman, the opportunity to bash the candidate. Will Terry McAuliffe be given the same opportunity right after President Bush speaks? 
 Commentators worked hard to spin scenes that didn't fit the script. Some simply saw what they wanted to see. On Fox, Michael Barone asserted that conventioneers cheered when Mr. Kerry criticized President Bush but were silent when he called for military strength. Check out the video clips at Media Matters; there was tumultuous cheering when Mr. Kerry talked about a strong America.
 Another technique, pervasive on both Fox and CNN, was to echo Republican claims of an ''extreme makeover'' -- the assertion that what viewers were seeing wasn't the true face of the party. (Apparently all those admirals, generals and decorated veterans were ringers.)
 It will probably be easier to make a comparable case in New York, where the Republicans are expected to feature an array of moderate, pro-choice speakers and keep Rick Santorum and Tom DeLay under wraps. But in Boston, it took creativity to portray the delegates as being out of the mainstream. For example, Bill Schneider at CNN claimed that according to a New York Times/CBS News poll, 75 percent of the delegates favor ''abortion on demand'' -- which exaggerated the poll's real finding, which is that 75 percent opposed stricter limits than we now have. 
 But the real power of a script is the way it can retroactively change the story about what happened.
 On Thursday night, Mr. Kerry's speech was a palpable hit. A focus group organized by Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster, found it impressive and persuasive. Even pro-Bush commentators conceded, at first, that it had gone over well.
 But a terrorism alert is already blotting out memories of last week. Although there is now a long history of alerts with remarkably convenient political timing, and Tom Ridge politicized the announcement by using the occasion to praise ''the president's leadership in the war against terror,'' this one may be based on real information. Regardless, it gives the usual suspects a breathing space; once calm returns, don't be surprised if some of those same commentators begin describing the ineffective speech they expected (and hoped) to see, not the one they actually saw. 
 Luckily, in this age of the Internet it's possible to bypass the filter. At c-span.org, you can find transcripts and videos of all the speeches. I'd urge everyone to watch Mr. Kerry and others for yourself, and make your own judgment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Television; News and News Media; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Fox Network; Cable News Network; C-Span

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



91 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Markets Are Largely Unfazed, With Stocks Rising Modestly

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The financial markets were stable yesterday despite the jarring announcement on Sunday of terrorist threats against specific financial institutions in New York, Newark and Washington.
 Stocks finished modestly higher, recovering from a morning decline. The dollar slipped slightly against the euro. The price of gold, often a refuge for investors, climbed just 70 cents, and there was no rush to the safety of the Treasury market. The price of crude oil inched up 2 cents. 
 With extra security around the New York area buildings identified by the Department of Homeland Security -- the New York Stock Exchange and Citigroup buildings in Manhattan and Prudential Financial in Newark -- investors seemed to take the specific threats in stride.
 That reaction, some analysts said, reflected that the threat of new attacks had been on investors' minds for some time and that the stock market began to recover just weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attack.
 ''We have not become immune to terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks,'' said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Capital. ''But we are becoming somewhat immune. We're used to this, and it is becoming a part of our daily economic and financial lives.''
 There was also some positive news yesterday, including several upbeat earnings reports and an announcement that the Institute of Supply Management's manufacturing index rose last month. But trading volume was about 175 million shares below the average for the year, meaning that some investors and money managers, like Mr. Johnson, did little or no trading. ''We decided to drag our feet for another day and watch this,'' he said. 
 Outside the stock exchange yesterday morning, John A. Thain, the chief executive, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, greeted workers as they arrived.
 ''New Yorkers are a plucky group,'' Mr. Schumer told reporters. Mr. Thain said, ''There was very little nervousness on the part of people coming in,'' adding that officials had always thought of the exchange as a potential target. Then Senator Schumer and Mr. Thain joined Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki in ringing the opening bell. 
 At the close of trading yesterday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 4.90 points, or 0.44 percent, to 1,106.62, and the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 39.45 points, or 0.39 percent, to 10,179.16. Early in the day, both indexes had been off as much as 0.4 percent. The Nasdaq composite index rose 4.73 points, or 0.25 percent, to 1,892.09, after being down 0.9 percent earlier. Advancing issues outnumbered those declining on the Big Board by a 3-to-2 ratio. 
 Shares of Citigroup, down 2.1 percent in the morning, rose 23 cents, to $44.32. Prudential Financial finished the day down 46 cents, or 1 percent, at $46.10, after having been 2.2 percent lower midsession.
 Among the companies reporting strong earnings was Procter & Gamble, which said its profit was 50 cents a share in the quarter ended in June, 2 cents better than forecast. Its shares jumped $1.19, to $53.34. 
 In other markets, the euro edged up against the dollar, rising to $1.2031 from $1.2020 on Friday, and the dollar declined against the Japanese yen, to 110.80 from 111.22 on Friday. The British pound settled at $1.8278, up from $1.8200 on Friday. Gold for December delivery, up as much as $2.10 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, settled at $394.40, an increase of 70 cents.
 Oil for September delivery rose 2 cents in New York, to $43.82 a barrel. That was down from an intraday high of $43.94 but was still the highest price at the end of a session since oil futures began trading there in 1983.
 In the Treasury market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year note slipped to 4.45 percent from 4.47 percent Friday as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 6/32, to 102 11/32. 
 The rush to Treasuries may have been slowed by two factors. The Federal Reserve, whose rate-setting committee meets next week, is expected to continue raising its benchmark short-term interest rate over the next year or longer. In June, it increased the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks for the first time in four years -- up a quarter-point, to 1.25 percent.
 Second, despite the expectation of higher interest rates in the months ahead, Treasury yields are still well below their recent highs, making the market appear very expensive.
 Despite yesterday's resilience in the face of the terrorism warning, the stock market has been in a stall since the S.&P. 500 index reached its 2004 high on Feb. 11.
 ''I think the fundamentals are pretty good,'' said Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates, a research and money management firm in Westport, Conn. Earnings reports for the second quarter are strong and the economy, despite a slowdown at the end of the second quarter, is still healthy.
 ''But,'' he added, ''for the time being the glass is still half-empty. People are in a funk and they discount the good news.''
 In addition, a report on Friday showing that the economy grew at an unexpectedly slow 3 percent annual pace in the second quarter is raising new questions about the strength of the recovery.
 This means that the July employment report, to be released Friday, will be watched closely to see whether a slowdown in June was just temporary, as Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said last month. Forecasters are predicting that about 250,000 jobs were created in July, up from 112,000 in June.
 Then investors will be waiting for what the Fed's rate committee says about the economy after its meeting next week, when it is expected to raise the benchmark rate another quarter-point, to 1.5 percent.
 The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.630	99.123	High Rate	1.465	1.735	Investment Rate	1.490	1.774	Low Rate	1.430	1.700	Median Rate	1.450	1.720	Total applied for	$42,935,368	$38,441,545	Accepted	$25,507,146	$22,328,895	Noncompetitive	$1,450,335	$960,690	

Both issues are dated Aug. 05, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 04, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 03, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John A. Thain, center, the Big Board's chief, and Senator Charles E. Schumer greeting arriving workers. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Muted Reaction''World markets were little changed yesterday after the new terror warnings.Graphs track the S.& P. 500, BRITAIN: FTSE 100, and JAPAN: NIKKEI 225 for the past week.YESTERDAY:S.& P. 500: 1,106.62 -- +0.44%BRITAIN: FTSE 100: 4,415.70 -- +0.06%JAPAN: NIKKEI 225: 11,222.24 -- -0.91%(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); TERRORISM (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EURO (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Terrorism; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%) New York Stock Exchange

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); PRU (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); JOHN THAIN (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (51%) John A Thain; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George E (Gov) Pataki; Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Washington (DC); New York City; Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



92 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Breakthrough on Trade

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization's agreement last weekend on a framework for further talks on lowering trade barriers is a welcome breakthrough. It could signal the beginning of the end for the $300 billion in rich-nation farm subsidies that have excluded poor nations' farmers from global markets. 
 Agriculture had been the main stumbling block in this round of talks, which began in 2001. The rest of the world increasingly resents American, European and Japanese agricultural protectionism and the immense difficulties it causes for the developing world. The subsidy issue had become a threat to the credibility -- and very existence -- of the W.T.O. Hence the progress in Geneva: the costs of continuing to coddle powerful farm lobbies in Washington, Brussels and Tokyo have just become too high. 
 The Bush administration, particularly Robert Zoellick, the U.S. trade representative, deserves credit for pursuing these difficult talks in an election year. The European Union's negotiators, for their part, skillfully overcame French opposition to their proposals. Brazil and other developing nations chose to negotiate in earnest and seek a realistic deal. Any celebration, however, should be tempered by several realities. The W.T.O. concedes that it will not complete the talks by its year-end deadline. And filling in the blanks remains a big challenge. 
 The agreement commits nations to dismantling their direct export subsidies, and their equivalents, by a date that must still be determined. Countries will also have to cut their trade-distorting subsidies, starting with a 20 percent trim in the first year. Washington agreed to consider reducing America's cotton subsidy program, already deemed illegal by the trade organization. Mr. Zoellick is rightly insisting that in return for ending these support programs, American farmers should be granted greater access to high-tariff markets. 
 The 147 W.T.O. members will have to move aggressively and in good faith to deliver on the optimistic note struck this weekend in Geneva. American and European farm subsidies cannot simply be relabeled in a manner intended to meet the letter of the commitment, while defying the spirit. And Washington's next farm bill, scheduled for 2006, will have to reflect the new reality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); COTTON FARMING (72%); LEGISLATION (67%) Agriculture; Editorials; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Protectionism (Trade); Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (72%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



93 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Labor Chiefs Plan Rally Against Bush Near Garden

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Adding to the stew of protests planned during the Republican National Convention, New York labor leaders announced yesterday that they would hold a rally on Sept. 1 at which tens of thousands of union members would demonstrate against President Bush.
 Labor leaders said the rally would be held near Madison Square Garden, the site of the convention scheduled from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2, to send a strong message to Republicans about what the labor officials said were Mr. Bush's antiworker and antiunion policies.
 ''George Bush is the working person's worst nightmare,'' said Brian M. McLaughlin, the president of the New York City Central Labor Council. ''He has attempted to roll back labor laws and workers' rights as far as he can.'' 
 Mr. McLaughlin, who is also a Democratic state assemblyman from Queens, said labor unions had originally planned to hold several marches from various union headquarters that would feed into the rally. But he said that because of security concerns and the huge pressures the city and its Police Department would face at the convention, labor leaders decided to forgo the marches and just hold the rally. 
 The rally, which has received a permit from the city, is scheduled from 4 to 8 p.m. at 30th Street and Eighth Avenue. Demonstrators will be asked to enter a planned security zone at 23rd Street. Mr. McLaughlin announced the rally at a news conference outside the Garden, where he was joined by leaders of more than a dozen unions, including 1199/SEIU, District Council 37, the United Federation of Teachers, the United Automobile Workers, the Transport Workers Union and Unite Here, the textile, hotel and restaurant workers union.
 At the news conference, the leaders said Mr. Bush had stripped many workers of overtime coverage, weakened the rights of workers to form unions, done little to stop jobs from moving overseas and done nothing to hold down health care costs.
 ''We believe that George Bush has been a disaster for our country, a disaster for health care and a disaster for working people,'' said Dennis Rivera, president of 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's largest health care union, which represents 260,000 workers.
 Leonard Alcivar, a spokesman for the Republican National Convention, said the convention would help labor by creating jobs and improving the city's economy. ''We look forward to a convention that looks to the president's successes over the past four years and to his vision for the next four years,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's aides say he has helped workers by reducing their taxes and by taking many steps to stimulate the economy.
 Mr. McLaughlin said that on the evening of Sept. 2, when Mr. Bush is expected to deliver his speech accepting the Republican Party's nomination, many New York union members would participate in a plan to have an estimated 25,000 union members across the nation knock on a million doors to spread an anti-Bush message.
 Two unions that are in a bitter contract dispute with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association and the Uniformed Firefighters Association -- will not participate in the rally, officials with both unions said. Neither union has endorsed a presidential candidate, and officials from the two unions said they wanted to focus their energies on protesting Mr. Bloomberg and not Mr. Bush.
 Officials from the police and firefighters' unions said they would hold some informational picketing during the convention.
 ''We will make our presence known at certain delegate events to make sure they know that the Republican mayor has refused to negotiate honorably and fairly with the police and firefighters of New York,'' said Tom Butler, a spokesman for the firefighters' union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); HOTEL STAFF (69%); RIOTS (67%); RESTAURANTS (63%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Organized Labor ; Election Issues; Conventions, National (US); Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



94 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Electronic Trading on Big Board Upstages Terror Talk

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
On a day of trading clouded by fears of a potential terrorist attack, John A. Thain, the chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange, announced yesterday his long awaited plan to increase electronic trading that could diminish the historic role of floor traders.
 His proposal, which will allow institutional investors to trade large blocks of stock electronically, is a radical shift for the exchange and its 1,366 members. It is all the more ambitious by being introduced during a time of nervousness in the markets with the onset of rising interest rates, terrorist threats and political uncertainty.
 Yesterday morning, the stock exchange building, with its soaring columns adorned with a large American flag, became a powerful political stage, just as it did after the Sept. 11 attacks. After the weekend news that the exchange and other financial institutions were possible targets of terrorist attacks, New York's leading politicians were at the exchange, from Senator Charles E. Schumer, who greeted traders as they entered the building in the morning, to Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who rang the opening bell. 
 ''We are open for business,'' Mr. Thain said yesterday as he stood before the looming statue of George Washington on the steps of nearby Federal Hall, with Senator Schumer beside him.
 Missing from his clipped, to-the-point remarks was the patriotic oratory that emanated at times from the exchange after Sept. 11.
 But for Mr. Thain, a former president of Goldman Sachs who directed the firm's aggressive investments in electronic trading, his expertise lies less in promoting the exchange and more in mastering the arcane technological details that make up his new plan and persuading the Big Board's many constituencies to adopt it. 
 Defenders of the exchange's two-century-old open outcry system, which relies on specialist traders to use their trading acumen and capital to help investors find the best price for a stock, say that now, more than ever, the experience and know how of the floor trader is needed to ensure price stability.
 At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Thain said that the new program, called Direct Plus, was designed so that large institutional investors like Fidelity and American Century would conduct more of their electronic trades with the New York Stock Exchange.
 ''If we didn't respond to our customer base,'' he said. ''They would pull their volume off and trade on the electronic markets.''
 The stock exchange's market share is 80 percent, having dipped to a low of 75 percent in January during the controversy over the pay of Richard A. Grasso, the former chief executive.
 Institutional investors have long complained that they cannot trade with speed and anonymity at the exchange and as a result they have directed much of their trading to the Big Board's electronic competitors.
 The most significant new feature of the program is an expanded ability to ''sweep'' -- allowing investors trading electronically to access automatically blocks of stock at various prices, thus enabling them to increase the size of their trades.
 To ensure that such sweeps do not result in increased volatility, as is frequently the case on electronic markets, Mr. Thain has imposed several restrictions.
 Most prominent is a price limit, ranging from 5 cents to 9 cents above or below the quoted price, which is aimed to restrict the size of electronic orders and thus keep prices from gyrating out of control. 
 Mr. Thain also said that the program would be switched off if extreme order imbalances occurred, like an overwhelming number of buy or sell orders building up around a specific stock.
 At such points, the order would move to the floor where it would be subject to the auction process by the exchange's specialist and floor traders.
 While some floor traders have expressed reservations about losing their influence, Mr. Thain took pains to say yesterday that new software would be introduced to allow traders from the floor to compete with institutions for electronic trades.
 ''The system allows brokers to do electronically what they do today,'' he said.
 A draft of the proposal was sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the exchange's main regulator, yesterday for approval. 
 Mr. Thain said he expected the new version of Direct Plus to become operational in 6 to 12 months.
 But for many, the more immediate concern was that the markets open and trade in an orderly fashion, despite the terrorist warnings. 
 Top executives of member firms said yesterday that all their traders reported to work.
 And Mr. Thain, in his remarks, underscored the extent to which security and contingency planning at the exchange had been enhanced since Sept. 11, 2001.
 The stock exchange has invested $25 million over the last three years in an alternative exchange, located in an undisclosed location in one of the five boroughs, which can house all of the Big Board's traders. It is ready to resume trading within a 24-hour period in the event that operations in the main building are disrupted.
 On the floor of the exchange, floor brokers greeted the day's events with typical sangfroid.
 ''It's business as usual,'' said Kenneth J. Polcari, managing director with Polcari/Weicker, as he rushed to put in his orders at the opening bell. ''Do I have any fear? No. We are here and the building is safe.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Armed New York Police Department officers guarded the New York Stock Exchange as the government raised the terror alert to orange in several cities. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 Citigroup employees lined up outside the 601 Lexington Avenue headquarters of the bank in Manhattan to have their attache cases checked. (Photo by Timothy A. Clary/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); POLITICS (76%); BONDS (73%); HISTORY (72%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Institutional Investors

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Stock Exchange

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) John A Thain; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004



95 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Breslin's Church, Too, Couldn't Shoot Straight

BYLINE: By R. SCOTT APPLEBY. 
R. Scott Appleby is a professor of history at the University of Notre Dame.

 BODY:

THE CHURCH THAT FORGOT CHRIST
By Jimmy Breslin
239 pages. The Free Press. $26.
 ''Do I keep on in a church that I mistrust or remain outside and follow a religion I love?'' This piercing refrain haunts Jimmy Breslin's angry meditation on the scandal of priestly sexual abuse of children and teenagers that has shaken the foundations of Roman Catholicism in the United States (and elsewhere). Echoing the anguished cry of countless bred-in-the-bone American Catholics, ''The Church That Forgot Christ'' devotes four pages to excoriating ''the church that I mistrust'' for every one that celebrates ''the religion I love.'' The formula produces mixed results. 
 On the upside Mr. Breslin brings a distinguished history of giving voice to the voiceless. A Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who made his reputation as New York City's relentless exposer of municipal corruption, organized crime, and government policies and actions that discriminate against the poor and racial minorities, he speaks with the authority of a bracingly honest, time-tested public servant.
 Mr. Breslin champions the regular guy struggling at the bottom of the social and economic hierarchy: the single mother working two minimum-wage jobs to put her kids through school; the Mexican immigrant denied legal status, health care and a living wage for his back-breaking construction work; the underpaid, overtasked Catholic-school teacher who, from dedication to her indigent students, cheerfully accepts a life of virtual poverty.
 In focusing his social crusader's eye on the Catholic scandal, Mr. Breslin reports little of substance that is new. Now well known are the patterns of abuse perpetrated by predator priests, and the stunning complicity of some bishops who covered up these serial crimes and reassigned the priests to parishes filled with unsuspecting children. But few critics have provided such a clear-eyed, unsentimental and unflinching depiction of how lives already made difficult were crushed irreparably by an institution that had seduced them into believing it could do no wrong.
 Among the tortured souls on display is the author's. An Irish Catholic, Mr. Breslin cannot escape the cruel paradox that the very institution he now detests -- ''this club of old men, this Catholic church that refuses to open its arms for so much good, makes it preposterous, and in my book pure evil'' -- helped form in him a love for the poor and a passion for social justice. ''And it is here, today, in the church and school of my origins, where the lives of nuns in the convent are now dedicated to getting women out of prison and helping them afterwards, here suddenly on this empty sidewalk I was never prouder of anything in my life,'' he confesses. ''This is where I come from.''
 In such passages Mr. Breslin's fidgety, staccato mode of expression, a street-colloquial style that conveys equal parts disgust and world-weariness, gives way to the eloquent pathos of the betrayed believer forced to preside at the funeral of ''the deep habits and beliefs of a lifetime.''
 Elsewhere the unfocused rage and reckless hyperbole of the muckraker weakens the indictment. Appropriately Mr. Breslin reserves his compassion for the victims and their families, showing no mercy to the perpetrators or their accomplices. But the priesthood itself, including thousands of trustworthy priests, is tarred with the same brush. How can a Catholic go to confession now, he asks, ''with everybody on the other side of the screen a suspected sex molester?'' ''Look at almost any Irish bishop or cardinal,'' he comments, in a typical rant, ''and you have most offensive behavior.''
 Taking issue with the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops' finding that over 4,000 priests had been accused of molesting 10,000 youths from 1950 until 2002, Mr. Breslin provides his ''considered estimate'' -- concocted, presumably, on the basis of extrapolations from his own limited investigations -- of 25,000 priests (nearly half of the priests active in the middle years of this period) and 100,000 victims. Would Mr. Breslin himself, one wonders, wish casually to be lumped with the dregs of his own profession?
 As he widens the target of his critique from Cardinal Edward M. Egan to Mother Teresa, from pedophile priests to Pope John Paul II, from tyrannical Irish bishops to the ''anti-Jew, anti-black'' Irish people, who, in their subservience to authority, ''gave us total religious insanity,'' it becomes clear that the true subject of ''The Church That Forgot Christ'' is not the sexual abuse scandal per se but the window it provides upon what Mr. Breslin calls the systemic corruption of the Roman Catholic Church.
 Thus the bishops' vehement and consistent opposition to abortion is not a principled position but a red herring, designed to cast attention away from priestly misconduct. Thus ''Mansion Murphy,'' as Mr. Breslin memorably labeled the bishop of Rockville Centre, on Long Island, represents all Catholic officials, who live in extravagant quarters and wallow in the arrogance of power. Thus ''a church that is supposed to teach you to worry about the poor sets the standard for having, for owning, for rejoicing in great big things.''
 Martin Luther has nothing on Jimmy Breslin: ''A gold ring on a bishop's finger,'' the present-day reformer intones, ''is the commercial of a pimp.'' Like Luther, Mr. Breslin feels it necessary, he says half-seriously, to establish his own church. In doing so, however, his challenge will be to attract and retain the kind of people of courage, faith and compassion that somehow, for a time, found a nurturing spiritual home within the walls of what Luther called ''the whore of Babylon'' and what traditionalist Catholics still call ''the one true church.'' People, that is, like Mr. Breslin himself. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Breslin (Photo by Alan Raia/Newsday)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (72%); LIVING WAGE (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); LITERATURE (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (67%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (51%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: R Scott Appleby; Jimmy Breslin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



96 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: In the Line of Fire

BYLINE: By John S. Burnett. 
John S. Burnett is the author of the forthcoming ''Where Soldiers Fear to Tread.''

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM 

 BODY:
At some point, the killing has to stop or effective humanitarian relief work as we know it today will never be the same. Relief workers are being murdered at an alarming rate because of a perceived lack of neutrality, because they are regarded as extensions of a donor nation's political and military agendas. 
 On the eve of the anniversary of the bombing of the United Nations compound in Baghdad, which killed 22 relief workers, it is disturbing to note that civilian humanitarian workers as never before have become fair game because their fiercely held neutrality -- long enshrined in international law -- is no longer taken seriously. Since then, nine aid workers of the United States Agency for International Development have been killed in the Darfur region of Sudan. Returning Taliban assassinated five relief workers of the unquestionably neutral Doctors Without Borders in Afghanistan in June. A Taliban spokesman said they were killed because they were considered spies for the United States. 
 Here in Amsterdam, headquarters of Doctors Without Borders/Holland, the murders of its staff members in Afghanistan were a shock. Few agencies hold their neutrality more inviolate. The killings, and the Afghan government's failure to arrest the perpetrators, were too much. Kenny Gluck, operations director of Doctors Without Borders, announced last week that the organization was pulling out of Afghanistan after 24 years of service, after saving countless lives during what had been considered the worst of times -- during Soviet oppression and Taliban restrictions. Mr. Gluck said he made his decision in part because of the United States military's use of humanitarian aid for ''political and military motives.'' American officials have rejected the charge that mixing military and relief activity would endanger aid workers.
 Before the killing of his colleagues, Mr. Gluck, an American, had expressed concern that the neutrality of all relief workers employed by nongovernmental organizations in the post- Sept. 11 world was being compromised: ''The Americans are pretending that NGO's are with them fighting the war against terror, and they are not. That puts them in danger. We want to be relevant medically and irrelevant militarily and politically.'' He himself was held hostage for more than three weeks in a moldy root cellar in Chechnya because, in part, his kidnappers questioned his group's impartiality. 
 Neutrality has never been far from the surface in relief work. When I was worked for the United Nations World Food Program in Somalia, we distributed 50-kilogram sacks of grain emblazoned with the American flag and ''Gift of the People of the United States of America.'' Somalis readily accepted the aid but it was clear that our professed neutrality was suspect.
 James Morris, director of the World Food Program, explained, ''It is important to see who cares about them, to know the genuine goodness of the United States.'' But at what point does the American gift to the needy in a war zone become a political weapon in the battle of influence, in the war of winning hearts and minds?
 Mr. Morris told me that President Bush has told him that the United States ''will never use food as a political weapon.'' Other friends of the president seem to differ -- to the horror of relief workers who increasingly are targets of those who think otherwise. 
 The demand on relief agencies to shed that protective cloak of neutrality -- despite the dangers to those in the field -- has never been more aggressive than it is today. Secretary of State Colin Powell, addressing nongovernmental organizations in 2001, spelled out a revised policy on relief work: that ''just as surely as our diplomats and military, American NGO's s are out there serving and sacrificing on the front lines of freedom NGO's are such a force multiplier for us, such an important part of our combat team.'' Those remarks sent shock waves through the relief community, which would rather not be part of the combat team in the war on terrorism.
 More recently, Secretary Powell's words were supported in a speech by Andrew S. Natsios, administrator of Usaid, the world's most generous food aid donor. At the Interaction Forum last year, he told relief groups that if they received American financing, they were ''an arm of the U.S. government.''If aid organizations did not show a stronger link to American foreign policy he threatened, according to the forum, to tear up their contracts and find new partners. 
 Relief agencies today are desperately scratching for donations and workers to deal with the disasters unfolding in Darfur and in Bangladesh. Unless the United States, the key donor nation, publicly espouses the position that relief work is neutral, and unless the Bush administration makes it clear that those saving lives in the field do not follow a donor nation's political and military policies, other sources of donations might dry up. Nations that frequently augment American contributions may understandably be reluctant to donate the billions of dollars and personnel needed for humanitarian efforts. And more civilian relief workers are going to get killed in their service to humanity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MURDER (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%) Foreign Aid; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%) Doctors Without Borders

PERSON: John S Burnett

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); SUDAN (92%); SOMALIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) Iraq; Afghanistan 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



97 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: State Accused Of Failure To Integrate In Hartford

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
The plaintiffs whose school desegregation lawsuit against Connecticut 15 years ago resulted in a $245 million plan to shift white, suburban students to Hartford's overwhelmingly minority schools and minority students in the opposite direction filed court papers on Tuesday charging the state is woefully behind schedule and has served only a fraction of the students it agreed to help.
 The January 2003 settlement, which was the result of a 1989 lawsuit, required the state to create two new magnet schools for 1,200 students in each of the next four years and to triple the number of city students who may voluntarily enroll in some type of magnet or suburban school program. 
 But last year, just 532 students were enrolled in two new magnet schools that were housed in existing city schools. This fall, when three additional magnet schools open, 330 more students will be enrolled. More than 6,000 children are on waiting lists for the openings, lawyers for the plaintiffs said. 
 The goal of the settlement is to ensure that by 2007, no school in Hartford or its 21 closest suburbs will have a composition of more than 68 percent black and Hispanic students, the agreed-on benchmark for declaring a school desegregated. Ninety-five percent of students in city schools now are nonwhite.
 ''The state of Connecticut must take its responsibility seriously,'' said Elizabeth Horton-Sheff, the mother of Milo Sheff, the named plaintiff in the lawsuit, at a news conference in Hartford on Tuesday. ''It must rise to what it has promised to do.''
 The Sheffs were one of two dozen black, Hispanic and white families who sued Connecticut in State Superior Court in 1989 to force it to desegregate Hartford's schools. In 1996, the court ruled that the state must ''take steps to reduce the racial, ethnic, and economic segregation in the Hartford region,'' according to court documents. 
 State Education Commissioner Betty J. Sternberg attributed the delay to a variety of factors, including obtaining an $8.6 million federal grant for the Hartford magnet school program, whose approval the state learned of on Tuesday. Gov. M. Jodi Rell directed Dr. Sternberg on Tuesday to work with Marc S. Ryan, the secretary of the Office of Policy and Management, and Hartford school and city officials to expedite a solution. Dr. Sternberg said her office and Hartford have worked aggressively to obtain slots for city children wishing to attend suburban schools and to interest suburban parents in city magnet schools.
 ''We don't have the numbers of suburban kids yet,'' said Dr. Sternberg, who became commissioner last November. ''But we believe we will make it eventually.'' She estimated that it would take until 2010 or 2011 to meet the settlement's requirements of eight racially balanced 600-student magnet schools. Lawyers for the plaintiffs said that the state had breached the settlement and that meetings with state officials had failed to address the lack of progress, forcing them to file the motion seeking renewed court intervention in State Superior Court in New Britain on Tuesday.
 The state has a ''constitutional as well as a moral obligation'' to provide equal education for Connecticut's children, Governor Rell said in a statement issued on Tuesday. ''It is in everyone's interest, especially our children's, to avoid another prolonged and costly court battle,'' she added.
 But that may not be possible. ''They've unilaterally changed the terms and gone about doing something differently than what we agreed to less than two years ago,'' said Chinh Quang Le, a lawyer with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund one of the civil rights organizations that is part of the legal team representing the plaintiffs.
 ''Project Choice,'' another provision of the settlement, requires the state to provide 1,200 slots for Hartford students who wish to attend school in Hartford's suburbs. Wesley W. Horton, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said that if those slots are unavailable when school opens in September, the plaintiffs will add a demand for compliance to the motion.
 One of the original plaintiffs, Erica Connolly, who will be 21 next month, expressed exasperation with the lack of integration. She now lives in Maine, working as a massage therapist while pursuing a college degree in community health. ''I was 6 when the lawsuit was filed,'' she said.
 Later, Ms. Horton-Sheff, who is a Hartford city councilwoman and no relation to Mr. Horton, said the state's failure to provide the needed schools and openings for students contributed to a ''racial isolation'' of both minority and white children and an ''instability'' that ultimately deters parents from choosing magnet schools.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Education and Schools; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Discrimination; Suburbs; Equal Educational Opportunities; Magnet Schools

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%) Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Hartford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



98 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Kosher, Greek Style, at the Olympics

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

DATELINE: ATHENS 

 BODY:
THERE has already been an opening ceremony here in the host city of this month's Summer Olympic Games.
 Last Sunday, Rabbi Mendel Hendel glued a mezuza to the doorway of the only kosher restaurant in Athens and the kitchen soon sent out the first bowl of hummus.
 The restaurant is called Kol Tuv, Hebrew for ''everything good,'' said Rabbi Hendel, one of the operators of the place. 
 He and his partners are hoping to draw from the thousands of tourists who will visit the Olympic Games, which begin Aug. 13 and end on Aug. 29. The restaurant, at 4 Normanou Street, is in the heart of the Monastiraki section, just below the Parthenon. 
 Rabbi Hendel's mission is a bit more eternal than 16 days in August. His congregation is the Beth Shalom Synagogue, about a seven-minute walk from the restaurant, and not far from the Jewish Museum of Greece. He is affiliated with the Lubavitch movement, whose world center is in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn. 
 ''Athens used to be called 'The Jerusalem of the Balkans,' '' said Rabbi Hendel, 28, who was born in Brooklyn, raised in Israel, and has been living here for three years.
 More than 80,000 Jews lived in Greece before World War II. But after the Holocaust and emigration, there are now an estimated 3,000 Jews in Athens and perhaps another 3,000 elsewhere in this nation of 11 million. 
 Rabbi Hendel said he is not looking for converts from outside Judaism. The restaurant will try to make visitors happy with kosher drinks like draft beer (Amstel or Veltins), Valpolicella or pinot grigio, and various coffees. There is also an eye-catching modern red refrigerator with glass doors, one of five in Athens, provided by Coca-Cola.
 Kol Tuv is no fast-food falafel parlor but rather a serious sit-down enterprise, featuring salads, appetizers, barbecue and daily features, as well as bagels, pita sandwiches and desserts. 
 The old brick walls, wooden ceiling, eclectic wooden ornaments and comfortable wooden tables give it an intimate, homey feeling. It is also air-conditioned, with a few outdoor tables on the narrow lane. 
 As for the menu, ''We collected dishes from our grandmothers,'' said Rabbi Hendel, who is married, has two children and says he cooks ''sometimes.''
 The operators of the restaurant are Elisa Kamonto and her partner, Joseph Varouh, who run a catering business in Athens.
 Ms. Kamonto, who is Jewish, grew up in the northern city of Salonika and learned the cuisine of Sephardic Jews, originally from Spain.
 One of her favorite dishes on the menu is tazikos, a vanilla-flavored fresh almond dessert. She learned it from her grandmother Liza, who died last year. 
 Among Kol Tuv's specialties are imam (baked eggplant with onions and tomato), stifado (chicken with onion and prunes), sofrito (beef a la Corfu, with garlic sauce), grilled tsipoura (sea bream), turkey souvlaki and biftekia (lean ground-meat cutlets) and pastelikos (traditional ground-meat pies, a specialty from an aunt of Mr. Varouh).
 The restaurant serves no dairy products and is glatt kosher, adhering to the strictest observation of Jewish dietary laws. Kol Tuv serves meat, vegetables and fruit and uses substitutes for any dairy products.
 My wife and I loved the lemony hummus, liked the mixed-leaf salad (pandessia) and the baked chicken, but were neutral about the imam. This being Greece, there was also cigarette smoke, some of it from the kitchen area. 
 The restaurant will be closed to walk-in customers for the sabbath from sundown Friday to sundown Saturday but special precooked sabbath meals can be ordered in advance, to eat in or take out. 
 The rabbi said his wife has come up with some tickets for a few Olympic sporting events; he isn't sure which ones. But he is confident that the restaurant will remain open even after the Games have left town.
 He calls Kol Tuv a ''Jewish information center.'' Some men in Hasidic garb hang around the restaurant; so do tourists in shorts. Rabbi Hendel moves easily between them, wearing a modern jacket and slacks.
 He has a number of friends working with him during the Games, including Ilias Cohen, formerly from Volos, to the north. 
 ''I wouldn't say I am kosherized,'' said Mr. Cohen, who has a degree in economics and added that he is between jobs for the summer. ''I believe in being a good man first and a good Jew second. The nice thing about Rabbi Mendel is that he never tells me what to do or not to do.'' 
 Kol Tuv (4 Normanou Street), in the Monastiraki section of Athens, is open from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily, but not to walk-ins on Saturday (Shabbat meals are available by special arrangement). Metro: Line 1 or 3 to Monastiraki station. Information: 30-210-524-4049 or www.kosherathens.com. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: JUST IN TIME -- Agelos Kostandinides, left, Ilias Cohen and Rabbi Mendel Hendel working at the newly opened Kol Tuv in Athens. (Photo by Ann Johansson/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (77%); CATERING SERVICES (77%); HOLOCAUST (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); WORLD WAR II (65%); BEER & ALE (64%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Restaurants; Kosher Food

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LUBAVITCH MOVEMENT (56%) Kol Tuv (Athens, Greece, Restaurant)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: George Vecsey

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) GREECE (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); ISRAEL (79%) Athens (Greece)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



99 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Pocono Report Confirms Surge In Foreclosures

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
An eight-month study released yesterday by Pennsylvania officials confirms what many residents of the Pocono Mountains have long suspected: foreclosures have reached stunning levels, especially among homebuyers new to the area, many of whom paid more than market value for their homes.
 The report, commissioned by two state agencies, also found that of the 6,100 households -- about one in five in the county -- that stumbled into foreclosure proceedings, many of the homebuyers were former renters lured by slick marketing from Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx to a cluster of gated communities 100 miles from Manhattan. 
 ''If this was an epidemiological report and you looked at these maps, you would think there was poison on the ground,'' said Ira Goldstein, one of the report's authors. ''The concentration of foreclosures is just unbelievable.'' 
 In addition to documenting the spread of foreclosures in Monroe County, a swath of forested hills across the Delaware River from New Jersey, the report outlined steps being taken to alleviate the financial stress on homeowners who have been victims of questionable real estate practices. 
 The remedies include $1 million in homeowner relief from Fannie Mae and a state mediation program for aggrieved homebuyers and their lenders that officials say they hope will lead to lower mortgage payments for hundreds of people. 
 ''We think this will have real value for homeowners,'' said Frank Donaghue, director of the state attorney general's bureau of consumer protection and a member of the task force that guided the study and formulated the state's response. 
 But all the hoopla surrounding the report's release did little to placate homeowner advocates and elected officials who say the state's fight against housing fraud -- which they say has contributed to the spike in foreclosures -- does not go far enough. 
 Al Wilson, president of the Pennsylvania Homeowners Defense Association, said he was disappointed that neither the state nor federal government had begun criminal proceedings against the half-dozen developers whom the report and state investigators have linked to a majority of the region's foreclosures. 
 ''Crimes have been committed against thousands of people, and we were expecting some justice,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''All we're getting is lip service.'' 
 The state attorney general's office, which has filed civil lawsuits against several developers and appraisers over the past two years, says it is still pursuing a criminal investigation. The state banking department, which commissioned the study along with the state Housing Finance Agency, also announced yesterday that it would assign three additional investigators to Monroe County.
 In breadth and detail, the report paints a sobering portrait of homeowner distress in one of the region's fastest-growing areas. The county's population climbed to 139,000 from 96,000 between 1990 and 2000, with many of the newcomers migrating from New York City, according to the study, by the Reinvestment Fund, a private development group commissioned by the state. 
 As the real estate market soared during the past decade, many developers in the Poconos began to market their homes to working-class New Yorkers, many of them black and Latino, who had been priced out of suburban Long Island, Westchester County and New Jersey. 
 The pitch, made through television commercials and newspaper ads, was remarkably successful, luring thousands of commuters to a handful of developments. 
 The study traced half of all foreclosures to nine builders and just a dozen of the county's 254 subdivisions. Many of the distressed properties, investigators found, were purchased by buyers who paid as much as 20 percent more than neighbors had paid for comparable homes. In some cases, officials say, appraisers were working with developers to inflate prices. 
 Many of those who say they were deceived admit that they did not shop around for other properties, nor did they hire a lawyer to guide them through the process. 
 ''I think a lot of these people were first-time homebuyers who believed in the American dream, but they probably got in over their heads,'' said Mr. Goldstein, the director of policy for the Reinvestment Fund. ''Many of them are already gone, but there are plenty of people who are here doing everything they can to make outrageous payments, and they're always on the brink of foreclosure.''
 Ernie D. Preate Jr., a lawyer for Gene Percudani, one of the most prolific builders in the Poconos, dismissed the findings, saying they did not take into account factors such as an ailing economy, job losses after Sept. 11, 2001, and the decision of many homeowners simply to stop making mortgage payments in the hope that the state would intervene on their behalf. 
 He said Mr. Percudani, who has been named in the attorney general's civil suit, had been made into a scapegoat. ''Gene built a good home, and he's been unfairly demonized,'' he said.
 At Penn Estates, where more than 100 of her neighbors have been served foreclosure notices, Zoraida Castro and her husband, Manuel, are struggling to hold on. 
 The couple, who moved to the Poconos from a Brooklyn housing project six years ago, found out that the home they paid $156,000 for is worth only $109,000, according to an independent appraiser. Even though they and their two children are working, the family is more than a year behind on the mortgage payments. 
 Told about the state's plan to help troubled homeowners, Ms. Castro's mood brightened. ''I just hope it's not too late for us,'' she said. ''Everything we have is tied up in this house.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''A Housing Market in Crisis''Foreclosures have climbed dramatically in the Pocono Mountains of Monroe County, Pennsylvania, with some homeowners claiming they were victims of housing fraud. A large proportion of people who moved to Monroe County over the past eight years came from New York City.Graph tracks foreclosure filings in Monroe County since 1995.PEOPLE WHO MOVED TO MONROE COUNTY SINCE 1995, BY COUNTY OF ORIGINBrooklyn, N.Y. -- 2,256Queens, N.Y. -- 2,209Bronx, N.Y. -- 1,847Northampton Cty., Pa. -- 1,776Suffolk Cty., N.Y. -- 1,323Essex Cty., N.J. -- 1,215Morris Cty., N.J. -- 1,012Bergen Cty. N.J. -- 918Map of Pennsylvania highlighting Monroe County.(Sources by Pennsylvania Department of Banking
 the Reinvestment Fund)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (77%); LITIGATION (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (61%) Housing; Frauds and Swindling; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Bankruptcies; Mortgages; Housing; Foreclosures

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%)

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Pocono Mountains (Pa); Monroe County (Pa); Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



100 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- New Jersey; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Making Room for Technology Start-Ups

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
After a long search for lab and office space for their fledgling life-science company late in 2002, Christian Kopfli and his business partner found a home at the Commercialization Center for Innovative Technologies in North Brunswick, N.J., a new, nonprofit complex providing ''incubator'' space for emerging technology companies.
 It offered an ''attractive rent in a modern facility that people would want to work in,'' said Mr. Kopfli, chief executive of Chromocell, which creates cell lines for use in research and gene therapy. 
 Since then, the company has expanded into three 800-square-foot labs and needs a fourth, and it has increased its work force to 14 people from 2. If Chromocell wants more space, there is none available. 
 So now, like most of its tenants, the center is making plans to expand. In hopes of providing a site where more new businesses can survive until they become profitable, it will more than double in size, to 48,000 square feet, and will accommodate 26 businesses instead of the 9 it holds now.
 The center is on the 50-acre campus of the Technology Centre of New Jersey, a state-supported collection of research and production facilities with 380,000 square feet in six buildings. It too is about to expand: it is under contract to buy an additional 25 acres for its campus, which is on the so-called research corridor of the Route 1 commercial artery near Princeton. In addition, Rutgers University in New Brunswick has leased 26,000 square feet adjacent to the commercialization center for several burgeoning businesses with ties to the university, as an extension of the campus-based incubator, said Michael Breton, associate vice president for research at Rutgers.
 The commercialization center where Mr. Kopfli's office is located has labs for life-science and high-technology firms needing as little as 800 to 1,000 square feet. It also offers shared business services like legal and accounting advice, as well as office support and conference rooms that are available to tenants. Rents of $30 a square foot cover both the space and the shared services.
 Thomas P. Sullivan, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis, the real estate services firm, said the center's expansion was proceeding even though the vacancy rate in northern and central New Jersey for research and lab space for large users remains steady at 18 percent. 
 But, he added, ''few private developers will divide space to below 3,000 square feet'' or build labs for small users, because they view the costs and risks as being high.
 There may be a growing need for such space, however. State universities and large pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms are spinning out young companies, said Debbie Hart, president of the Biotechnology Council of New Jersey, a trade organization, and there are now 124 biotechnology firms in the state.
 The competition for the start-up companies is expected to intensify as the economic recovery gathers strength. To that end, the state and Rutgers University in Camden have started to erect a 100,000-square-foot building in a technology center on the Camden waterfront. The initial building will house the Rutgers-Camden Business Incubator, which will relocate into the building and double its space to 40,000 square feet. 
 Frank Keith, executive director of the Rutgers incubator, said the school's existing center houses 33 businesses in a mix of industries. Ultimately, the Camden Center will have up to 500,000 more square feet in five additional buildings.
 In the private sector, a Manhattan developer plans to break ground next spring on an 80,000-square-foot building in a four-building research and development park on Route 535 in East Windsor, N.J. SciPark, as the development is called, will have labs and office space for companies needing at least 6,000 square feet, Michael J. Simon, the developer, said. 
 But more than space, small companies, hindered by high operating costs and the lack of credit, need financial help, said Caren Franzini, chief executive of the state Economic Development Authority. Along with offering rents at the commercialization center that are slightly below market, Ms. Franzini said, the state has several programs that will help, including one that allows money-losing companies to sell tax credits to profitable companies that need write-offs against New Jersey taxes.
 As for Mr. Kopfli of Chromocell, he expects his company to become too large to remain in an incubator building much longer, and he plans to lease larger quarters next year. But that does not mean he will leave the Technology Centre of New Jersey entirely: ''I most likely will stay'' in production space there, he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Larissa DiGiovanni, a Chromocell technician, at the technology center in North Brunswick, N.J. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through June.Graph tracks regional figures, measured in thousands, since 2000.NATIONAL IN THOUSANDSJUNE '03: 172.1APR. '04: 186.7MAY '04: 184.8JUNE '04: 191.0(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GENE BASED DRUGS (71%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); LABOR FORCE (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Science and Technology

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%) Commercialization for Innovative Technologies (NJ)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) North Brunswick (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



101 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Citing Roslyn, Comptroller Widens Audits Of L.I. Schools

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL and STACY ALBIN

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., Aug. 3 

 BODY:
Two and a half years ago, Nassau County, hovering on the brink of bankruptcy, began implementing changes to address rampant corruption in local government. The county's school districts, however, which are monitored by the state, largely escaped any such scrutiny. 
 On Tuesday, spurred by a scandal in the wealthy Roslyn school district, State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said his office would conduct in-depth audits of three other Nassau County school districts and one in Suffolk County where reports of improper spending have surfaced. Mr. Hevesi said they would be the first of what he hoped would be 140 annual audits in school districts statewide. 
 The districts to get immediate review are Lawrence, Manhasset and Hempstead in Nassau County and the Brentwood district in Suffolk. Nine other districts on Long Island -- East Meadow, Locust Valley, North Shore, Plainedge, Syosset and Westbury in Nassau County and Three Village, Central Islip and Wyandanch in Suffolk County -- will also be singled out for audits of administrators' spending, Mr. Hevesi said. He said that six more districts would be selected for audits of administrator's expenses.
 There are 127 districts on Long Island, which, like other districts in New York, must submit annual audits to the state. But those audits have been limited in scope and have not revealed instances of fraud and mismanagement, officials have said. 
 Another district, William Floyd, will not be audited by his staff, Mr. Hevesi said, because the Suffolk County district attorney, Thomas J. Spota, already has an ongoing audit of the district. A former district treasurer was charged with stealing $750,000 by writing checks to himself.
 Mr. Hevesi said his office would work closely with the district attorneys in both counties as the audits proceed. 
 Mr. Hevesi, who spoke to reporters at the office of the Nassau County comptroller, Howard Weitzman, was quick to say that he did not think Long Island was given to corruption any more than other parts of the state. Still, he pointed to the Roslyn case, in which the superintendent and another top administrator are accused of stealing more than $2 million, as well as the William Floyd district, and said audits on Long Island would be a necessary foundation for rebuilding taxpayers' trust.
 ''Some we'll do one every five years, some every three years and some we'll do every year if we have to, in order to clean up management issues,'' Mr. Hevesi said at a news conference. ''And where we find improper conduct or criminality, we'll go right to the district attorney.''
 The four districts where full audits will be conducted represent the full range of economic strata on Long Island: from wealthy Manhasset on the North Shore, where $22,311 was spent per student in the last school year, to impoverished Brentwood in central Long Island, where about half that, $11,943, was spent on each student last year. Yet all have one feature in common: whistleblowers.
 Three weeks ago, after announcing publicly that his office would undertake a limited number of audits on Long Island, Mr. Hevesi asked the public to step forward with any concerns about their districts. About 60 individuals contacted his office by phone, letter and e-mail and lodged concerns about 32 districts. 
 ''They range from 'In such and such a district, money's disappeared, it's gone, somebody's committed some criminal act' to 'We don't know what happened to money for the uniforms for the team,''' Mr. Hevesi said, adding that he would not specify what concerns were raised in the chosen districts until the audits were completed. ''The bottom line could be that every one of them could be incorrect,'' he said.
 In the chosen districts, news that they had been selected for review was greeted with surprise and, in at least one case, relief.
 In Manhasset, where voters rejected the district's budget twice this year and the schools will begin the new year under an austerity budget imposed by the state, the school board president, Thomas Maimone, said he was unsure why the district had been selected. ''We have no indication of any wrongdoing,'' he said. 
 The Manhasset superintendent, Dr. Lawrence E. Bozzomo, said the board had been discussing an audit itself, after grumbling among residents about the generous spending per student. 
 ''I feel kind of relieved,'' Dr. Bozzomo said. ''Hopefully the state will do the level of audit our community was expecting and the community won't have to pay for it.''
 In Lawrence, Dr. Asher Mansdorf, a school board member, said he guessed the district had been selected for an audit because of an accounting mistake that happened three years ago under a previous superintendent.
 ''We had a very significant tax increase because there were errors in the tax increase,'' Dr. Mansdorf said. ''There was a miscalculation when the superintendent was figuring out the budget. He underestimated how much we needed from the taxpayers to figure out how much we needed to have a balanced budget.''
 Since then, Dr. Mansdorf said, the budget has failed several times, and the community has never really regained confidence that its taxes are appropriate. 
 School officials in Hempstead and Brentwood could not be reached for comment on Tuesday.
 In Westbury, where school administrators' expenses for a one-year period will be examined by Mr. Hevesi's staff, an administrator expressed surprise at the audit, saying there had been no warning of discontent from the community.
 ''There's been no precursor to this, no signal that there was a disgruntled group or disenchanted electorate,'' said Dr. Robert Root, the assistant superintendent for instruction. He added that only about three residents attended the last school board meeting in July. 
 Another district where expenses will be reviewed is the Three Village school district, which covers parts of East Setauket, Old Field and Stony Brook, where a former superintendent has been accused of using a credit card issued by the district to pay for excursions at nightclubs.
 In addition to the audits, which he said can only uncover improper spending after it has occurred, Mr. Hevesi said he would implement a number of preventive measures, including training for school administrators and board members. 
 He said he would work to ensure that independent auditors hired by the districts are trained.
 The long-term goal of Mr. Hevesi's plan, to conduct regular audits of districts across the state -- something the comptroller's office did regularly some 20 years ago, he said -- still depends on whether he receives $5.4 million in funding from the State Legislature to hire 89 auditors. 
 ''The intention is to go statewide, but we're going to focus on Long Island,'' Mr. Hevesi said. ''The evidence is clear with two scandals involving criminal allegations that we want to focus on Long Island. Does that mean upstate, or in Westchester that there won't be problems? There will be problems. Sure there will be.'' 


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''A Closer Look at School Finances on Long Island''New York State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi announced in-depth audits of four school districts on Long Island after allegations that administrators misused money from school budgets.Number of studentsLAWRENCE -- 3,714HEMPSTEAD -- 6,940MANHASSET -- 2,624BRENTWOOD -- 16,138Number of schoolsLAWRENCE -- 7HEMPSTEAD -- 12MANHASSET -- 4BRENTWOOD -- 182003-2004 budget (millions)LAWRENCE -- $85.3HEMPSTEAD -- $110MANHASSET -- $63.2BRENTWOOD -- $209.2Spending per pupilLAWRENCE -- $20,303HEMPSTEAD -- $15,091MANHASSET -- $22,311BRENTWOOD -- $11,943Superintendent's salary and benefits, 2003LAWRENCE -- $188,885HEMPSTEAD -- $232,099MANHASSET -- $227,953BRENTWOOD -- $199,700Note: Mr. Hevesi also announced a fifth audit that will examine administrator's expenses in at least 15 districts, including East Meadow, Locust Valley, North Shore, Plainedge, Syosset and Westbury in Nassau County and Three Village, Central Islip and Wyandach in Suffolk County. Additional districts will be named later.Map of Long Island shows the locations of Manhasset, Hempstead, Brentwood and Lawrence.(Source by New York State Comptrollers Office
 New York State School Boards Association)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); AUDITS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (69%); LAWYERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%) Education and Schools; Frauds and Swindling; Education and Schools; Embezzlement; Accounting and Accountants

PERSON: Michelle O'Donnell; Stacy Albin; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY); New York State; Lawrence (NY); Manhasset (NY); Hempstead (NY); Brentwood (NY); Roslyn (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



102 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Investors Retreat, Spooked by Oil Costs and Spending Data

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Another record high for oil prices and a sharp drop in consumer spending rattled investors yesterday, sending stocks lower and halting a five-session winning steak for the Dow industrials. Technology stocks suffered the worst damage.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 58.92 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,120.24. The decline halted the Dow's longest winning streak since November, an advance of 217 points that lifted it back above 10,000. 
 Broad market indicators also dropped. The Nasdaq composite index fell 32.67 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,859.42, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.93 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,099.69.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.30 points, or 1.5 percent, to 543.63.
 The market, already fretting over the impact of fuel costs on corporate profits, took another blow as United States crude prices jumped above $44 a barrel for the first time.
 Stocks have been trading in a narrow range in recent weeks as investors worry about rising interest rates and energy prices. While the market overcame Monday's jitters over energy prices and new threats of terrorism in the United States, sellers prevailed as the backdrop worsened yesterday.
 As oil prices continued their climb, investors feared that consumers and businesses could face even higher fuel costs.
 But Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason in Baltimore, saw reason for optimism: the fact that yesterday's decline was not worse, he said, bodes well for coming sessions.
 ''The market is indicating that the selling we had in July has pretty much run its course; it was a pretty vicious month,'' he said. ''If we can get oil prices down a buck or two, we'll see a nice market gain.''
 Technology shares took the Nasdaq lower and figured prominently among the Dow's decliners, with the International Business Machines Corporation falling 98 cents, to $85.71. Intel fell 73 cents, to $24.17, after A.G. Edwards lowered its ranking on the semiconductor industry.
 The Dow's biggest decliner was Caterpillar, down $1.42, to $71.68. Rising crude prices helped Exxon Mobil buck the trend, gaining 64 cents, to $46.89.
 Shares in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. fell 15 cents, to $11.25, after the company -- still struggling with the legal woes of its founder and former chairman -- posted a wider-than-expected loss for the second quarter. It also warned of bigger-than-expected losses in the third quarter.
 The conglomerate Tyco International rose 17 cents, to $31.41, after the company said third-quarter profits surged 63 percent because of sharply lower production costs and double-digit revenue growth. The Moody's Corporation fell 30 cents, to $69.64, after Morgan Stanley downgraded the rating agency's shares to ''equal weight'' from ''overweight.''
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 6-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, and by a 2-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq market.
 New York Stock Exchange volume came to 1.34 billion shares, compared with 1.27 billion shares on Monday.
 Bond prices rose across the board yesterday after the government reported that consumer spending registered its largest drop in three years in June, reinforcing other recent indications that the economic recovery slowed at the end of the second quarter.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32 to 102 17/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.43 percent, from 4.45 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.896
High Rate: 1.335
Coupon Yield: 1.357
Low Rate: 1.310
Median Rate: 1.330
Total applied for: $44,200,290
Accepted: $21,630,728
Noncompetitive: $58,015

The four-week bills mature Sept. 2, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); ELECTRONICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (64%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (62%); MOODY'S CORP (60%); INTEL CORP (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); LEGG MASON INC (54%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (64%); IBM (NYSE) (64%); IBM (LSE) (64%); MSO (NYSE) (62%); MCO (NYSE) (60%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); LM (NYSE) (54%); TYC (NYSE) (50%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (62%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (62%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (50%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



103 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words

 BODY:
An article in Business Day on July 15 about the licensing of three experimental cancer drugs from Cuba by a California biotechnology company, CancerVax, included an erroneous reference from the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council about the status of another Cuban drug, PPG, which is used to lower cholesterol. The federal government has not given permission for an American company to license it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER DRUGS (90%); CANCER (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (88%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (85%); CHOLESTEROL (83%) Cancer; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Correction Stories; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: Cancervax (Co)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



104 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Bank Profit Rises

BYLINE: Dow Jones

 BODY:
Royal Bank of Scotland said first-half net profit rose 18 percent, helped by income from acquisitions in the United States and Britain and a strong performance in its insurance business. Net profit was $:2.33 billion ($4.25 billion), up from $:1.97 billion in the period a year earlier. Revenue rose 20 percent, to $:10.94 billion. Profit in general insurance more than doubled, to $:1.72 billion in the first half. Pretax profit was up 17 percent, to $:3.38 billion, short of analysts' forecast of $:3.47 billion, and the company's share price fell 3 percent. The bank said integration of the American bank Charter One Financial, which it bought in May for $10.5 billion, was going well and should be completed by the end of 2004. The chief executive, Fred Goodwin, said recent acquisitions and an improved economic outlook provided an optimistic outlook for the second half.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of Royal Bank of Scotland Group shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); CHARTER ONE BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Bank of Scotland Plc

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: FRED GOODWIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



105 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Missourians Back Amendment Barring Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
Missouri voters on Tuesday overwhelmingly approved an amendment to the State Constitution barring gay marriage, becoming the first state to answer what has become a growing question since same-sex marriage became legal in Massachusetts.
 With 93 percent of precincts reporting, the amendment had garnered 70 percent of the vote.
 Voters in at least 9 other states -- and perhaps as many as 12 -- are expected to consider similar amendments this fall, so advocates on both sides of the debate were intensely watching Missouri's results, anxious about what they might say about voters elsewhere in the weeks ahead.
 ''What happens in Missouri will be looked at by people across the country,'' said Seth Kilbourn, the national field director for the Human Rights Campaign, a Washington group that worked against the proposed amendment in Missouri with more than $100,000 for television advertisements, telephone banks and polling. 
 Vicky Hartzler, a spokeswoman for the Coalition to Protect Marriage in Missouri, which pressed for the amendment with church functions, yard signs and a ''marriage chain'' of rallies across the state, said she hoped that the outcome would send a loud message to the rest of the country: ''Here in the heartland we have a heart for families, and this is how deeply we feel about marriage.''
 The gay marriage question drew a heavy turnout on Tuesday to an election that also produced a surprising result in the race for governor. Late Tuesday night, Gov. Bob Holden conceded defeat to Claire McCaskill, the state auditor, in the Democratic primary. It was the first time a sitting governor lost a primary in the last decade. Ms. McCaskill will face Matt Blunt, the secretary of state, who won the Republican primary.
 In Missouri, as in more than 30 other states, a state statute already defines marriage as a union between a man and a woman. But Ms. Hartzler and others said they feared that a state provision might not be enough for a court somewhere, given the decision last November by Massachusetts' highest court that gay marriage was not prohibited under that state's Constitution.
 ''This wasn't a battle we sought out,'' Ms. Hartzler said. ''It was brought on us in Missouri by what happened there.''
 If the fight began elsewhere, it has also sometimes been waged with the help of groups from other parts of the country. Opponents of the Missouri measure spent hundreds of thousands of dollars, while supporters said they spent far less. 
 Many voters on both sides said Tuesday that they expected the ban to be approved. Missouri has often been described as a reflection of the entire country because of its blend of Southern and Northern, of tiny farming towns and large cities like Kansas City and St. Louis. Much of the state is socially traditional and old-fashioned, said Matthew Byer, 37, as he left his polling place in Ladue, a wealthy western suburb of St. Louis. 
 ''Myself, I don't think it's right,'' Mr. Byer said of the amendment. ''It is embarrassing to me that I think this is going to pass because of fears and because of concerns about what same-sex marriage would mean to married people. It doesn't affect them in any way, shape or form.''
 In some polling places, there was confusion. In Woodson Terrace, a northwest suburb of St. Louis, Norma Gladman, 76, said she opposed same-sex marriage but was not sure quite what to think of changing the state's Constitution.
 ''Isn't there already a ban?'' Ms. Gladman asked her friends as they walked into the polling place.
 A few people said they felt rattled by the wording of the amendment: ''Shall the Missouri Constitution be amended so that to be valid and recognized in this state, a marriage shall exist only between a man and a woman?'' Some paused and worried aloud as they left the polling place whether their ''yes'' or ''no'' vote had accurately reflected their intent.
 Others, on each side, were certain.
 In Ladue, Lindsay Goldford, a 20-year-old college student, said her Christian background and beliefs were the basis of her support for an amendment. ''When you look at marriage, it's between a man and a woman,'' Ms. Goldford said. ''Biblically, homosexuality isn't in the plan.''
 And outside a polling place also in Ladue, two longtime friends learned on Tuesday that they did not agree.
 Mary Klostermeier, 77, said she saw the need to bar gay marriage. ''I guess I'm in the old school,'' Ms. Klostermeier said. ''I'm just a very religious person.''
 But her friend Gene Gabianelli, 72, said he had voted against a ban. ''People should do what they want to do,'' Mr. Gabianelli said. ''This whole thing is all about politics as far as I can tell -- all about mobilizing people for George Bush.''
 In fact, local political leaders here had fought over the timing of amendment. Some Republicans had pressed to hold the vote in November, during the general election. Democrats, who had more competitive primary races on Tuesday, pushed to hold it now. 
 ''The political calculus that has been made by the Bush people is that more people will turn out from the far right conservative base with this issue on the ballot,'' Mr. Kilbourn said. ''This is all about the politics of distraction. It distracts from the economy, the job losses, the issues people care about.''
 Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, said the wave of amendments around the country had come because ''the American people want to protect the institution of marriage. That's what's driving this whole thing.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Perkins said, he believed the amendments would pass in every state where they are weighed this fall.
 Louisiana plans a vote on a marriage amendment on Sept. 18. In November, people in Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, Oklahoma, Oregon and Utah are expected to consider similar measures. Ballot initiatives are awaiting approval in Michigan, North Dakota and Ohio. Four states -- Alaska, Hawaii, Nebraska and Nevada -- already passed constitutional amendments banning gay marriage before the Massachusetts ruling.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robyn Luster, left, and Barb Ide were at a party yesterday in St. Louis for supporters of an amendment to the State Constitution barring gay marriage. Voters in Missouri approved the measure by a large margin. (Photo by Michael Reigner/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) Marriages; Elections; Referendums ; Election Issues; Homosexuality; Constitutional Amendments; Election Results; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (56%)

PERSON: VICKY HARTZLER (79%); MATT BLUNT (59%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (53%) Monica Davey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (74%) MISSOURI, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%) Missouri

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



106 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: So-Called Private REIT's Are Gaining Ground, and Their Share of Critics

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Since 1998, CNL Hospitality Properties of Orlando, Fla., has bought $5.6 billion worth of hotels -- spending more than any other hotel buyer -- and now owns many of the most prestigious resorts in the nation, including the Arizona Biltmore in Phoenix and the Grand Wailea Resort Hotel and Spa in Maui.
 CNL, the owner of 130 hotels under 19 different brands, is a so-called private real estate investment trust, as opposed to the more familiar REIT's, which are traded on stock exchanges. These funds have markedly increased the amount of money they have raised from investors in recent years, and other kinds of competitors have become more vocal in their criticism.
 CNL is not the only private REIT that has been a prominent property buyer. In the retail sector, for example, two private REIT's affiliated with the Inland Real Estate Group of Companies of Oak Brook, Ill., have been the second-largest buyer, adding more than $2 billion worth of strip centers to their portfolios this year alone, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research company that tracks sales of $5 million or more. And Wells Real Estate Funds of Norcross, Ga., has bought nearly $892 million worth of buildings, making it one of the largest acquirers of office space. 
 Private REIT's have been heavily criticized by real estate specialists, including executives of their publicly traded rivals, who say that these companies could tarnish their industry because investors pay high fees to own these securities. Investors receive regular dividends, the critics charge, but these are not necessarily paid out of cash flow and may be financed through borrowing. Another complaint is that the organizers of private REIT's generally invest little of their own money in them.
 Executives of the private REIT's, who prefer to call their companies ''unlisted public REIT's,'' say that their investors do very well without subjecting themselves to the volatility of the stock market. The shares are not traded on any exchange, but the REIT's are required to file reports regularly with the Securities and Exchange Commission, just like public companies.
 Analysts looking at two of the private REIT's are about to have an easier time evaluating them. CNL had sought to list itself on the New York Stock Exchange and sell up to 35 million shares for $19 to $21 each this week, but yesterday it said it would postpone the offering. The Inland Real Estate Corporation, the oldest of three private REIT's affiliated with the Inland group, was listed on the stock exchange in June. It owns $1.6 billion of strip shopping center properties in the Midwest. 
 Both companies recently received harsh criticism from Green Street Advisors, an independent research company in Newport Beach, Calif., that specializes in REIT's.
 In a report on July 19, Green Street concluded that although Inland's returns were respectable, they lagged behind most of the public companies in the strip mall sector, returning 13.3 percent on a compound yearly basis over the last decade, compared with 16.4 percent. 
 The difference is not negligible, particularly since shares in the private REIT could not be sold, said Greg Andrews, the Green Street retail analyst who prepared the report. ''Now we have an opportunity to look at the track record in a way that's impossible for an entity that does not trade,'' said Mr. Andrews, the only analyst so far to have weighed in on Inland, ''and while the track record here in an absolute way is fairly respectable, it pales in comparison to its strip center REIT peers.'' 
 Inland executives declined to respond point by point to Mr. Andrews. ''We feel very strongly that we have a very good company,'' said Mark E. Zaloris, the chief operating officer of the new public entity. ''We could dispute the ways of measuring results, and the time frame. You may see other opinions that differ quite radically in the near future.''
 Inland had promised it would liquidate the REIT or list it by 2007. Mr. Zaloris said the company had decided to act before the deadline because ''the timing was right from the standpoint of the company's fundamentals and the marketplace.''
 Shares of private REIT's are sold to individual investors by financial advisers, who get a hefty commission, usually 6.5 to 7.5 percent. 
 Unlike publicly traded REIT's, which manage themselves, private REIT's are advised by separate companies. Fees to these companies, which are usually composed of the same people who organized the REIT, can raise the total load to between 10 to 17 percent. 
 To bring itself in line with other publicly traded REIT's, CNL planned to buy its advisory company, in which its chairman, James M. Seneff Jr., has a majority interest. But the $297 million price tag, to be paid mainly in stock, has shocked many real estate specialists. ''This is a huge payday for CNL,'' said Barry Vinocur, the editor of Realty Stock Review, a newsletter that focuses on REIT stocks. ''From the standpoint of investors, this ought to give them pause.'' Mr. Vinocur has been a longtime critic of private REIT's, describing them in a recent newsletter as ''a loser's game.''
 CNL Hospitality Properties has also come under fire from Unite Here, the recently merged union of garment workers and hotel and restaurant employees. The union mounted an unsuccessful campaign to urge the REIT's 102,000 shareholders to reject the purchase agreement on the ground that the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed that it had already paid its adviser more than $200 million in fees since 1999.
 Reporting on CNL last Friday, two Green Street analysts, John Arabia and Mike Kirby, said the acquisition fees the company planned to pay its external adviser vastly exceeded the norm. The fact that the advisers themselves did not hold many shares of the REIT provided ''a significant incentive to acquire hotels, but did not provide much motivation to be prudent as to price,'' the report said.
 Mr. Arabia and Mr. Kirby praised the company's decision to go public but added that ''the idea that investors were being asked to pay an extraordinary price for the new advisory business was reminiscent of technology-bubble pricing.'' They said that shares of the company should be priced about $8 below what the company was seeking and recommended that investors pass on this deal.
 Citing the mandatory quiet period while a public offering is pending, CNL executives declined to be interviewed. But documents filed by CNL with the S.E.C. include a letter from Lehman Brothers, which reviewed the proposed price for the advisory company and concluded that the deal would be ''fair to the company.''
 Critics who say that private REIT's are rife with conflicts of interest acknowledge that conflicts can also occur within publicly traded REIT's. Selling a property may make sense for a corporation, for example, but family members who owned the building before the corporation went public may worry about generating unwanted tax bills.
 And private REIT's also have their defenders. Dale Anne Reiss, the global director for Ernst & Young's real estate, hospitality and construction practice, said that private REIT's were sold to people looking for a safe investment, who might otherwise buy a certificate of deposit at a lower rate of return. ''Wall Street talks a lot about the fees,'' she said, ''but what they forget is that these REIT's are being marketed to a different audience. These are people with different investment criteria.''
 But Ralph Block, the owner of the Essential REIT Publishing Company of Westlake Village, Calif., a newsletter and consulting company, said the private REIT's were raising money at a slightly slower pace this year, suggesting that investors might be having doubts about them. Mr. Block questioned whether financial planners who receive large commissions ''are really studying the long-term investment economics'' of private REIT's. ''Or,'' he asked, ''are they putting their clients into these because of the commission?''
 In one recent case, the Securities and Exchange Commission raised just such a question. In May, a financial advisory firm on Long Island was sanctioned after investigators found that four of its customers, including two elderly people, had suffered financial losses in the late 1990's when they used their savings to buy shares in private REIT's that were unsuitable for their investment objectives because they could not be sold.
 Without admitting guilt, the company, David Lerner Associates of Syosset, agreed to pay a $50,000 penalty and to reimburse the clients, who went into debt to buy the securities and lost a total of $182,000.
 But an S.E.C. official said he could not remember any similar cases.


GRAPHIC: Photo: CNL's holdings include the Arizona Biltmore in Phoenix. The company has bought $5.6 billion worth of hotels since 1998. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times)Chart: ''A Prominent Role for Private REIT's''Real estate investment trusts that are not traded on stock exchanges have raised billions from investors in recent years.Graph tracks amounts raised by private REIT's by quarter since 2000.Real estate buyers, ranked by acquisitions closed or pending this year.Developers DiversifiedTYPE: PublicACQUISITIONS2003: $ 263,250,0002004*: $2,362,070,128American Financial Realty TrustTYPE: PublicACQUISITIONS2003: 638,400,0002004*: 2,048,100,000Inland Retail and Western Real Estate TrustsTYPE: Private REITACQUISITIONS2003: 2,491,106,5372004*: 2,002,897,000General Growth PropertiesTYPE: PublicACQUISITIONS2003: 1,516,845,0002004*: 1,508,250,000Moinian GroupTYPE: PrivateACQUISITIONS2003: 289,733,3332004*: 1,371,291,000RREEF FundsTYPE: InstitutionalACQUISITIONS2003: 1,420,390,7012004*: 990,467,100Tishman Speyer PropertiesTYPE: PrivateACQUISITIONS2003: 115,000,0002004*: 922,000,000Triple Net PropertiesTYPE: Private REIT and syndicationACQUISITIONS2003: 759,567,7332004*: 907,599,300Wells Real Estate FundsTYPE: Private REITACQUISITIONS2003: 2,595,814,3792004*: 891,733,333JamestownTYPE: ForeignACQUISITIONS2003: 767,411,1112004*: 868,078,000*Through July 26(Sources by Robert A. Stanger & Company
 Real Capital Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (96%); REAL ESTATE (95%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RESORTS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); RETAILERS (73%); DIVIDENDS (70%) Real Estate; Real Estate

COMPANY: INLAND REAL ESTATE GROUP OF COS INC (83%); GRAND WAILEA RESORT HOTEL & SPA (72%); INLAND REAL ESTATE CORP (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Cnl Hospitality Corp; Inland Real Estate Group of Companies; Wells Real Estate Investment Trust

TICKER: IRC (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (83%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (83%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (83%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (61%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (61%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



107 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: War and Peace, and Politics

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
In an election that could well turn on questions of war and peace, danger and safety, all politics sometimes seem to be security these days. And all security has an unmistakable overtone of politics, whatever the reality or immediacy of any announced threat.
 ''We don't do politics in the Department of Homeland Security,'' Secretary Tom Ridge said on Tuesday in dismissing any suggestion that his latest threat warning had a political motive. But on Sunday, Mr. Ridge, a former Republican congressman and governor of Pennsylvania, did do some politics all the same, when he declared that the intelligence behind his alert was ''the result of the president's leadership in the war against terror.'' 
 John Kerry may not share that view, of course, but it is hard for him to say so, and the biggest thing the Democrats may have to fear in this campaign is the power of fear itself.
 Polls show that Mr. Bush's handling of terrorism remains his only clear advantage over Mr. Kerry in a razor-close race, and the president would not be either human or the canny politician he has proved himself to be in the past if he did not do all he could to remind the public of that strong suit -- and to reinforce it. 
 That is why Mr. Bush chose to hold the Republican National Convention this month in Madison Square Garden, a short subway ride from ground zero, and why he released a new campaign advertisement on Tuesday with images of the firefighters and the flag, proclaiming, ''The last few years have tested America in many ways, but together, we're rising to the challenge: standing up against terrorism and working to grow our economy.''
 But Mr. Bush must also take pains not to be seen as letting the political tail wag the terrorism dog. Word that much of the newly discovered intelligence that prompted the latest alert was years old led even some law enforcement officials to wonder why Mr. Ridge had raised the threat level just now.
 ''My own view is that the White House will be granted huge latitude by the public on matters involving potential terrorist attacks,'' said Don Sipple, a longtime Republican political consultant. ''Only the most cynical would view any political motivation. They have up to this point erred on the side of caution. It so happens he's a candidate for re-election, but first and foremost he's the president of the United States, fulfilling that role in dangerous times and a dangerous world. Shame on anybody who challenges that.'' 
 The political risk for Mr. Kerry is clearer. Last week, when he wanted to show himself as a qualified commander in chief, he imported a parade of veterans, admirals and generals to the Democratic convention to praise him, then spoke passionately about his own combat service in Vietnam.
 On Monday, Mr. Bush reminded Mr. Kerry and anyone else who was watching that he is already commander in chief, as he stepped into the White House Rose Garden with the gravitas that only the president can grasp -- flanked by the secretaries of state, defense and homeland security and the attorney general -- to announce support for creation of a new national intelligence director and comment on the latest terror alert.
 ''What this last 48 hours has shown is that the incumbent president really can dictate the agenda of a presidential campaign, and all of Kerry's efforts on the road can be derailed by a morning press conference in Washington,'' said Scott Reed, who ran Bob Dole's unsuccessful campaign against Bill Clinton in 1996. ''That's just the challenge of running against an incumbent president. It's tough. Take it from me.''
 Polls show that while handling terrorism remains the one area where Mr. Bush is seen as a surer hand than Mr. Kerry, he has lost considerable ground in recent months, and the Democratic convention closed the gap even more.
 In a CBS News poll conducted over the weekend, a majority of Americans, 51 percent, said they approved of the way Mr. Bush was handling the campaign against terrorism while 43 percent disapproved, down from March, when 60 percent approved and 32 percent disapproved.
 Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was President Ronald Reagan's last White House chief of staff, said that Mr. Bush and his aides ''have to play this absolutely straight, and I think they are.'' He added, ''I think they have an imperative to explain to the American people not only the danger, but also enough of the background so that people are convinced this is for real.''
 Mr. Bush is all too aware of the price he would pay if he had information about a possible attack and failed to share it. The report of the Sept. 11 commission detailed the missed clues and miscues that might have foiled the hijackers' plot. So the president's advisers make it clear that they are more than willing to suffer some second-guessing of their motives as they go about doing what they see as their jobs, and they insist that politics plays no part.
 ''We wouldn't be, you know, contacting authorities at the local level unless something was real,'' Mr. Bush said on Monday.
 Among Democrats, only former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont has gone so far as to say out loud that he believes the administration is ''manipulating the release of information in order to affect the president's campaign.''
 And even those remarks, barbed as they are, are no sharper than the comments some Republicans leveled at President Bill Clinton six years ago, when he ordered cruise missile strikes against Qaeda outposts in retaliation for the bombing of American embassies in East Africa days after confessing to his affair with Monica Lewinsky.
 Daniel R. Coats, then a Republican senator from Indiana and now Mr. Bush's ambassador to Germany, summed up his feeling at the time.
 ''The danger here,'' Mr. Coats said then of Mr. Clinton, ''is that once a president loses credibility with the Congress, as this president has through months of lies and deceit and manipulations and deceptions, stonewalling, it raises into doubt everything he does and everything he says, and maybe everything he doesn't do and doesn't say.'' He added: ''I just hope and pray the decision that was made was made on the basis of sound judgment, and made for the right reasons, and not made because it was necessary to save the president's job.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); WAR ON TERROR (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%) Terrorism; Election Issues; Intelligence Services; Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%); AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Homeland Security Department

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush; Tom (Dir) Ridge; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



108 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: A 19th-Century G.O.P. Bastion Holds Firm

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: BERKELEY SPRINGS, W.Va. 

 BODY:
It has been a rough year for the Bush administration by some measures, with criticism from the Sept. 11 commission, prison scandals in Iraq and a flat economy at home. But here in the remote hills of northeastern West Virginia, most people have a hard time imagining a candidate better than the incumbent, who they say shares their values in a way no Democrat ever could.
 Charlie Crouse, who works in an auto parts shop, said he felt that President Bush had ''lost character and lied about Iraq,'' adding that he was embarrassed by the vicious oratory of presidential politics this year. In many respects, he said, he would ''just as soon stay home'' on Election Day. 
 But Mr. Crouse said he was American, patriotic, and religious, too, so he would vote on Nov. 2 -- for Mr. Bush. 
 ''This is a Republican county,'' Mr. Crouse joked as he watched his granddaughter being crowned ''Prettiest Baby'' recently at the Berkeley Springs Volunteer Fire Department's Annual Fair. ''They couldn't care if you had Khrushchev on the ballot, if he was a Republican we'd check it off.''
 It is this bedrock of support that is keeping President Bush even in the polls with his challenger John Kerry, and that may propel him into a second term. In this swath of devout Republican counties that stretch from central Pennsylvania into West Virginia, more than 70 percent of voters chose Mr. Bush in the 2000 election. Morgan County, where Berkeley Springs is located, has voted Republican since the Civil War.
 Iraq, where many members of a local Air Guard unit have been deployed, and a growing federal deficit have given rise to some grumblings and misgivings. But local land prices are rising as residents of Washington and Baltimore, 80 to 90 miles to the east, have discovered the scenic hills here, and shared ''values'' will certainly maintain the Republican vote. 
 ''Sure, I'm voting for Bush; I feel much more secure about terrorism with George Bush around,'' said Richard Jenkinson Jr., a retired Vietnam veteran who works in a junk store in this Civil War town that has not changed much in the last 100 years. 
 As Mr. Jenkinson offers a tour of his issues, it is easy to see why George Bush is his man. He believes that invading Iraq was a wise move, because ''Saddam Hussein was a Hitler-type character, who needed to be taken out.'' He is opposed to abortion, except to save a woman's life. A gun owner and National Rifle Association member, like almost everyone else here, Mr. Jenkinson considers owning guns a civil right and ''part of home protection.'' 
 On weekends, he and his friends shoot at pictures of Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden. ''It's a way of handling hostility, I guess,'' Mr. Jenkinson said, with a shrug.
 People in this part of the country like and respect George Bush. Although a record percentage of Americans now say the country is moving in the wrong direction, and Mr. Bush is being lampooned in ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' here he is still regarded as a hero and a statesman. 
 ''I'm with Bush all the way, since I feel he's an honest, solid person I can trust,'' said Jean McKee, who works at the courthouse in Chambersburg, Pa., where on a recent afternoon an honor guard of teenagers in uniform bearing American flags was commemorating an important Civil War battle. 
 Ms. McKee is against same-sex marriage and supports the Iraq war. ''Bush is not like Clinton,'' she said. ''I like his values. And I just don't feel comfortable with John Kerry. He just doesn't seem sincere.''
 The Republican Party and the Bush-Cheney campaign are wont to talk about their devotion to values. It is a word that comes up often here, a synonym for a conservative, religion-based, rural way of life.
 Greg and Pat Rawlings of Chambersburg vote always, and always vote Republican, explained Mrs. Rawlings, who works as a clerk for Target. They are soft-spoken, well-informed people who bemoan the incursion of roads and teenage drug use into their orderly world, where signs on the main street must now warn: ''No Cruising. Anyone who passes this spot more than three times in two hours will be fined.'' They sent their children to Christian school and are sick that Pennsylvania has recently decided to allow slot machines in to the state. 
 ''Here, being a Republican is a question of faith,'' said Mr. Rawlings, who makes dental hardware. ''There are a lot of life-and-death issues this year, like the war. I think if we didn't go in to Iraq, they'd be here taking our buildings down. Also, every life is important; to us that means no abortion. A family consists of a husband, a wife and children. And faithfulness in marriage is very important to us.
 ''I want to respect my president, whatever his party, and Mr. Clinton made it hard to do that.''
 Bill Earley, a libertarian who owns Chambersburg's bookstore, said that when he and 17 others organized an antiwar demonstration in front of the courthouse, people stopped their cars and screamed, ''Get out of this country.''
 ''It's all about God, family and loyalty here,'' Mr. Early said.
 If there are misgivings on Iraq, they are often that the United States was not aggressive enough. ''I think it's good we went into Iraq to remove Saddam, though I think it should have been done by Bush Sr. the first time around,'' said Marshall Yonker, a firefighter in Berkeley Springs, 35 miles southwest of Chambersburg. It is the love of guns, however, that will keep many in the Republican camp. In Berkeley Springs, schools are closed for the first week of deer-hunting season, in November.
 ''Guns? So long as people can have one, it's not an issue,'' said Peggy Oakes, who works for the city government. 
 Sure, there are Democrats around who will vote for Mr. Kerry, but they mostly talk in whispers. Tom Finucane, 62, a lawyer in Chambersburg, had a confession to make on a sunny lunch hour near the Civil War Memorial, where he was chatting with his friend Mark Miller. 
 ''This place is three-to-one Republican,'' Mr. Finucane said, ''but I'll tell you a secret: I'm Democrat.''
 ''You, too?'' Mr. Miller replied. ''Two of us in one place. Now this is a truly historic occasion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I feel much more secure about terrorism with George Bush around,'' said Richard Jenkinson Jr. of Berkeley Springs, W.Va., a town whose residents have been voting Republican since the Civil War. (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TERRORISM (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (71%); CIVIL WAR (68%); RELIGION (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); VIETNAM WAR (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); ABORTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Elisabeth Rosenthal; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Berkeley Springs (W Va)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



109 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE INTELLIGENCE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: Signs of a Threat Were 'Probably as Rich as It's Ever Going to Get'

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
Senior White House officials said Tuesday that the decision to raise the threat level was made at a meeting convened at 4 p.m. on Saturday in the White House Situation Room. Several of the Bush administration's senior counterterrorism officials, who had scattered for the weekend, had to be plugged in by video teleconference monitors.
 To two senior White House officials in the meeting, it appeared to be a clear-cut case. It did not occur to these officials as they debated how to go public with the information that had been streaming in about a heightened terrorist threat, they said, that in the coming days the decision would stir confusion and skepticism because much of the intelligence appeared to be three or more years old.
 ''I've never seen so much pointing in the same direction,'' one of the senior officials said, referring to the intelligence that prompted the heightened alert. ''You think, this is probably as rich as it's ever going to get. I can tell you, if you don't warn now, I don't know when you would.'' 
 The intelligence reports received at C.I.A. headquarters and relayed to the White House, the officials said, were increasingly ominous. Much of the information was sent directly to top officials from John McLaughlin, the acting C.I.A. director, who spoke with Frances Fragos Townsend, President Bush's domestic security adviser; via a secure telephone line, he could instantly reach her with the press of a single button.
 On Sunday at 2 p.m. Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge announced the decision to raise the threat level. Senior administration officials said the action was not driven by election-year considerations, but by intelligence reports that described an orchestrated surveillance operation at several large financial institutions.
 It is now apparent that the information had significant gaps and omissions. It was not clear, for example, who was behind the scouting missions, whether these unidentified suspects were still in the United States or even whether their reconnaissance operations, many of which were conducted three or four years ago, represented an aborted plan or were an early warning sign of an active plot.
 The new threat information seemed to come at an awkward time for Mr. Bush, who has anchored his re-election campaign on his handling of terrorism, but is still on the defensive because of criticism by the independent commission that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks. Before the hijackings, the commission concluded, the White House reacted too slowly to the reports of a possible terrorist strike. Since the final report on July 22, commission members had been urging the White House to move more swiftly to implement their recommendations.
 Moreover, the color-coded threat level has proven to be a cumbersome tool for alerting the public to threats of terrorist attack. On July 7, for example, when Mr. Ridge announced that Al Qaeda was hoping to ''disrupt our democratic process,'' with an attack this year, some politicians privately complained that he might be only spreading fear because he did not change the threat level.
 After Sunday's decision to raise the threat level, a few law enforcement and intelligence officials said the intelligence, at least that had been known at the time the decision was made, seemed to be dated, most of it going back to 2000 and 2001. The information was important and worrisome, they said, but it seemed too out of date, too much like previously known intelligence about Al Qaeda's surveillance methods to be a persuasive indicator of an impending attack.
 But in the highest circles of the administration, the new information was frightening.

The Warnings
 On Friday morning, the intelligence briefing that awaited Ms. Townsend at her White House office seemed alarming, two senior White House officials said. There were two disturbing developments: information being gleaned from a computer hard drive recently seized in Pakistan suggested that Al Qaeda had studied specific sites in New York and Washington. Another stream of intelligence information pointed to the possibility of a current threat to attack New York.
 ''We know very early on Friday morning we've got an issue, a very serious, live issue,'' said one of the officials, who asked to remain unidentified because of the information being discussed. 
 A senior terrorism official at F.B.I. headquarters telephoned Pasquale J. D'Amuro, the head of the F.B.I. office in New York, on a secure telephone line. Within an hour Mr. D'Amuro was meeting with the New York police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. 
 At about the same time, Mr. Bush who was aboard Air Force One, flying from Washington to Missouri for a campaign appearance, was told the same information. He called Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser.
 ''It was unmistakable that the threat stream seemed very much to zero in on New York,'' one of the officials said. ''If Friday was not a New York day in the counterterrorism world, nothing was going to be.''
 Domestic security and law-enforcement officials began receiving word about the new information early Friday, and it set off a frantic round of meetings. ''Everyone thought from the beginning this was the real deal,'' said an administration official who was involved in the deliberations.

Going Into High Gear
 The focus on New York led the White House to take an unusual step: it invited Mr. Kelly to join the administration's discussions. With Mr. McLaughlin's agreement, Mr. Kelly was given all the C.I.A.'s intelligence and, even more unusually, he was given a voice in the discussions over possible law-enforcement responses and how and when to make public the information about the apparent threat.
 Over the next two days, Mr. Bush received periodic updates as he campaigned in the Midwest, either directly from Ms. Rice and Ms. Townsend, or from Robert Blackwill, a national security aide who was traveling with him. He gave no public hint of the urgent discussion under way.
 At the White House, Mr. Bush's national security team was going into high gear, the two senior officials said. Top-level officials met twice during the day. And throughout the day, Mr. McLaughlin, the acting C.I.A. director, was calling Ms. Townsend with updates about what was being gleaned from the computer drive.
 By Saturday, Mr. McLaughlin was calling Ms. Townsend every 30 or 40 minutes, reading to her from the detailed reports recovered from the computer, the officials said. At one point, an official at the White House asked Mr. McLaughlin if the documents recovered from the computer had dates on them. He replied that many did not, but that some appeared to have been put together before the Sept. 11 attacks.
 The dated nature of the reports did not alter the thinking of either the analysts or the counterterrorism officials who read their reports or senior policy makers at the White House, even though by Monday some expressed doubt about the urgency of reports three or four years old.
 A senior White House official said the dating of the intelligence did not matter because it seemed to fit in with other information suggesting that Al Qaeda intended to strike inside the United States as a way of disrupting the November election. 
 ''What matters is that they've done the casing reports and they were done by people whose computers are associated with people who you believe are part of plot lines associated with the pre-election threat,'' the official said. ''Then you say to yourself, Well, my goodness, they've already got the work done. These are people who are talking about making attacks in the pre-election threat. It doesn't matter if the casing reports were done five years before.''
 At the C.I.A., teams of analysts and forensic experts initially estimated that the computer drive might contain as many as 10 complete reports about potential target buildings. By Saturday, it became clear that the number was around 5. Even so, they were stunned at the level of detail and the fact that the reports were written in perfect English, raising the prospect that operatives had been working in the United States.
 ''Now, they could be gone,'' one of the senior officials said. ''They could still be here.''

Decision Time
 The analysts findings were considered so serious that officials convened a 7 a.m. meeting of high-level officials on Saturday. Some urged a cautious approach to dealing with the threat information. There was talk of waiting until the markets opened on Monday before taking any action like raising the threat level, said a senior official with the Department of Homeland Security. 
 But a second stream of intelligence information apparently reviewed late Friday ratcheted up the level of concern. That information referred to threats against financial centers in both New York City and Washington, and it prompted domestic security officials to let city officials in Washington know on Saturday about the new concerns.
 ''When you saw the level of specificity and detail in the intelligence, there was certainly a sense of urgency,'' the domestic security official said. 
 Officials involved in the discussion said there was intense debate on Saturday about how the decision to elevate the threat level would affect the New York and Washington economies and the public psyche in general, as well as whether the intelligence was credible enough to justify such a move.
 ''All of those things were debated at length,'' said an administration official involved in the process. ''This was not a decision that was made lightly. There was White House involvement and there was involvement among many different federal agencies and in the end it was certainly joint decision.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush leaving the Oval Office yesterday and heading into the South Grounds of the White House before leaving for Texas. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); AL-QAEDA (72%); HIJACKING (70%); ELECTIONS (69%) Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Central Intelligence Agency; Homeland Security Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) David Johnston; Eric Lichtblau; George W (Pres) Bush; John Mclaughlin; Frances Fragos Townsend; Tom (Dir) Ridge

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



110 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Decision in Bias Case Is Another Blow to Merrill
A federal judge dealt another blow to Merrill Lynch in its legal battle with women who contend that they were victims of sexual discrimination.
 Judge Ruben Castillo, of Federal District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, ruled that arbitrators who hear the remaining complaints that arose from a 1997 suit against Merrill can consider a previous finding that the firm engaged in ''a pattern and practice of discrimination'' against women who worked in its brokerage operations. [Page C2.]

Guinea Pigs Are Now, Well, Human
More drug researchers are conducting small, fast and relatively inexpensive tests on people to get a quick gauge of a drug's promise before committing to full-scale clinical trials that may involve hundreds of patients, millions of dollars and many years of study. [A1.]

Drug Maker's Materials Scrutinized
Johnson & Johnson said that the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, had asked it for information about six of its drugs, including marketing materials, the results of clinical trials and data on prescriptions written for so-called off-label use. [C2.]

Regulators Focus on Wachovia
The Wachovia Corporation disclosed that federal regulators were poised to take action against the bank and several executives regarding stock purchases and financial reports related to its 2001 merger with the First Union Corporation. Wachovia said it received a notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 23 that the S.E.C. was investigating. Wachovia said it would defend itself vigorously. [C4.]

Ruling Favors J.P. Morgan Chase
J.P. Morgan Chase said that a London court ordered the German bank WestLB to pay $165 million plus interest and costs in a suit related to the collapse of Enron. [C11.]

Questions About Expert Witnesses
A new study raises questions over the medical findings of some doctors acting as expert witnesses in asbestos liability lawsuits. [C4.]

Stocks Fall as Oil Price Rises
Another record high for oil prices and a sharp drop in consumer spending sent stocks lower. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 58.92 points, to 10,120.24. The Nasdaq composite index fell 32.67 points, to 1,859.42, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.93 points, to 1,099.69. [C7.]

Consumer Spending Fell in June
Consumers reduced spending by 0.7 percent in June, the largest drop in three years. [C2.]

Internet Bank Sale Abandoned
The British insurer Prudential P.L.C. abandoned plans to sell control of the Internet bank Egg after a seven-month search failed to produce a buyer. [C4.]

Ryanair Shows Signs of Recovery
Ryanair, the discount Irish airline, said its after-tax profit rose 30 percent in the first quarter, to 52.6 million euros ($63.4 million) including exceptional items, as the number of passengers rose 28 percent from a year earlier, to 6.6 million. But Michael O'Leary, the chief executive, said that yields, the average revenue per passenger, were likely to fall 5 percent to 10 percent in the current quarter, and an added 10 percent to 20 percent toward the end of the year. [World Business, Section W.]

IAC/InterActiveCorp the Internet commerce and television-shopping company, said that second-quarter profit dropped 24 percent as marketing expenses rose. [C4.]

Rise of a New Type of REIT
Private real estate investment trusts are starting to attract more investors -- and criticism. Commercial Real Estate. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,120.24 down 58.92Nasdaq composite -- 1,859.42 down 32.6710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.43% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2054 up 0.0023The dollar -- 110.56 yen down 0.24Graph tracks the daily closing price of Wachovia shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); WOMEN (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (70%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (70%); INTERNET BANKING (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXPERT WITNESSES (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (66%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (64%); ASBESTOS (62%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (62%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CANADA SQUARE OPERATIONS PLC (83%); PRUDENTIAL PLC (80%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); WESTLB AG (54%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (71%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); PUK (NYSE) (80%); PRU (LSE) (80%); K6S (SGX) (80%); 2378 (HKSE) (80%); JNJ (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (50%); RYA (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (80%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



111 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: A Record of Recovery

BYLINE: By GEORGE P. SHULTZ. 
George P. Shultz, secretary of the Treasury from 1972 to 1974 and secretary of state from 1982 to 1989, is a distinguished fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University.

 BODY:
Over the course of last week, we heard a lot from the Democrats about their record of economic achievement. So let's take the advice of a Democrat of yesteryear, Al Smith, the former governor of New York. 
His trademark phrase was, ''Let's look at the record.''
 These charts show the rate of change in real gross domestic product and in employment from 1990 to last June. The shaded areas show recessions. The vertical lines show when President Bill Clinton took office and when he left. Because the economy has momentum, it's useful to look carefully at the trends in evidence at the time of presidential transitions. When you look at the record, a quick summary is this: President Clinton inherited prosperity; President Clinton bequeathed recession.
 The 2001 recession was short and shallow, with employment -- always a lagging indicator -- the last part of the economy to rebound. The employment picture has been a little puzzling since the two main surveys -- one asks existing establishments how many people are on their payrolls, and the other asks people in a large sample of households whether they have jobs -- show slightly different patterns. In any case, by now a third piece of the record appears clear: the recession President Clinton left behind has turned into prosperity under George W. Bush.
 Thanks, Al Smith, for your good advice.


GRAPHIC: Chart: Chart tracks the CHANGE IN G.D.P. (percent change from same quarter prior year) from 1990-2004. (Shaded areas are recessions.)Chart tracks the CHANGE IN EMPLOYMENT (percent change from same month prior year). Shaded areas are recessions.Both charts span the presidencies of George Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics, Commerce Department, National Bureau of Economic Research, Haver Analytics.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); TRENDS (76%) United States Economy; Election Issues ; Recession and Depression; Gross Domestic Product; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Bill Clinton; George P Shultz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004



112 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Nanosys Withdraws Plan for Public Offering
Nanosys, the leading symbol of nanotechnology's promise to generate lucrative innovations by manipulating atoms and molecules, called off a closely watched effort to go public long before it had any products to sell.
 Nanosys and a banking team led by Merrill Lynch had hoped to sell 6.25 million shares at $15 to $17 a share, which would have given the public a 29 percent stake in the company. Nanosys, based in Palo Alto, Calif., said in a brief written statement that ''market conditions'' led to its decision. [Page C6.]

Wal-Mart Seen in Settlement Talks
Wal-Mart is in settlement talks with federal prosecutors who are investigating whether company officials knew that its janitorial contractors were using illegal immigrants to clean its stores, lawyers close to the investigation said. [C4.]

Cigna Swings to Quarterly Profit
Cigna, an employee benefits provider, said that it swung to a profit in the second quarter, citing improvement in its health, disability and life insurance programs and help from an asset sale. The company also raised its earnings forecast for the full year. But the company's medical enrollment declined 17 percent from a year earlier, to 10 million. [C2.]

Credit Suisse reported that second-quarter earnings were slightly better than expected, but its Credit Suisse First Boston investment banking unit showed weakness. [C4.]

Polo Ralph Lauren reported higher quarterly earnings on strong sales, while Tommy Hilfiger posted a quarterly loss on weakness in its wholesale business in the United States. [C2.]

Ruling on Sugar Favors Brazil
Brazil scored another triumph at the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the European Union's sugar subsidies give its farmers an unfair advantage on global markets. [World Business, Section W.]

Debate Continues on Fuel Gains
A management conference in Michigan made it clear that automakers remain divided on whether diesel or hybrid cars are the best way to improve fuel efficiency. [C4.]

Blue Chips Rise as Tech Shares Fall
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.27 points to close at 10,126.51. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 1.06 points, to 1,098.63. The Nasdaq composite index fell 4.36 points, to 1,855.06. [C7.]

Gates's 'Joke' Enters Rumor Mill
A report by a German financial magazine that Bill Gates was interested in buying Nintendo was out of context and stemmed from an ''admiring joke'' he made at an informal cocktail reception, according to Microsoft. [C6.]

Beyond Shopping Magazines
James Truman, editorial director of Conde Nast, is seeking to start and edit a periodical about the fine arts, a change in direction for a company that has been focusing on shopping magazines. The Arts. [E1.]

Offering Legal Advice and Lattes
Eight years ago, Jeffrey Hughes opened a cafe called Legal Grind in Santa Monica, Calif. In the afternoon, lawyers arrive at the cafe -- which sells legal advice in addition to coffee -- to make themselves available to customers for about 15 minutes for a $25 fee. Now, Mr. Hughes wants to franchise Legal Grind to other lawyers and even paralegals, and not only in California. Small Business. [C5.]

Cats Allowed, but No Dogs
Meow Mix is opening a temporary cafe for felines. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C3.]

Why Higher Learning Gets the Ax
If higher education is so important to the economy, why are state governments cutting back on it? Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,126.51 up 6.27Nasdaq composite -- 1,855.06 down 4.3610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.42% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2041 down 0.0013The dollar -- 111.13 yen up 0.57Graph tracks Cigna's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); SUGAR FARMING (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (68%); WHOLESALERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CIGNA CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); NINTENDO CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); CI (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 7974 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (51%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



113 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Evacuation Plans Due for High Rises In New York City

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER

 BODY:
More than 11 years after terrorists first struck at the World Trade Center, the city is still struggling to complete guidelines for evacuating high-rise buildings where thousands of workers would face vital questions of what to do if their skyscraper were to come under attack. 
 Under a new city law that takes effect at the end of September, though, the Fire Department is, for the first time, drafting rules for evacuations of large commercial buildings in case of a terrorist attack or a natural disaster. The purpose of the rules, officials say, is to require owners of big buildings to at last prepare detailed plans, train staff members and conduct full evacuation drills of the building every three years. 
 Until now, owners of tall office buildings in New York and most major cities in the United States had been required to do little more than organize fire drills. Tenants usually did not leave the buildings, or in many cases, even their floors. ''This is a dramatic change in how we view getting people out of buildings that have fires but also non-fire-related emergencies, like explosions, biological and chemical releases, any hazardous materials,'' said Nicholas Scoppetta, the fire commissioner. 
 Yet the new drills -- which gained yet another jolt of urgency with this week's terror alerts focused on landmark buildings in the city -- will continue to put heavy emphasis on what the real estate industry is calling ''invacuations.'' In those situations, tenants would not move outside the building, but simply a few floors away from the hazard or to a designated refuge. 
 That strategy, which dates to the early 1970's, is based on considerations of both safety and practicality, officials say. The stairways in a building or the streets outside could be more dangerous than staying put. Moreover, many New York skyscrapers built since 1968 simply do not have enough stairways to allow all the occupants to go down at the same time when emergency workers are coming up.
 Even so, all those involved acknowledge that persuading people to remain inside a building that has been attacked or threatened has become much harder after the collapse of the twin towers on Sept. 11, 2001.
 ''Since 9/11, a lot of people have made the decision to self-evacuate, for whatever reason,'' said Roberta M. McGowan, the executive director of the Building Owners and Managers Association of Greater New York. 
 Vincent Dunn, a retired fire chief and an authority on high-rise fire safety, said the rapid collapse of the trade center's towers undermined the public's faith that such buildings could resist and contain fire. ''On 9/11, the people who did not follow instructions to stay put were the ones who survived,'' Mr. Dunn said. ''The people who followed the instructions did not survive.'' 
 In testimony before the national commission investigating the attacks, Alan Reiss, who had overseen the trade center for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey until shortly before Sept. 11, also said that the standard advice no longer carried weight.
 ''No one is going to listen to a fire safety director making an announcement that says 'stay and let the other people evacuate first,''' Mr. Reiss told the panel in May. ''Everyone, including myself, and we have had a couple of fires in the building that I am now a tenant in -- that fire alarm goes off and you smell smoke, everyone is down the stairs instantaneously.''
 That impulse can lead people into more serious problems, officials agree, and underscores the need for specific, convincing and enforceable rules to be adopted by the city.
 Donald P. Bliss, director of the National Center for Infrastructure Expertise, said: ''One thing you don't want to happen is evacuate people into a worse situation. If there's a secondary device, or some type of biohazard or other problem, you want people to stay sheltered in the building.''
 In the case of a car or truck bomb, shards of glass would be a devastating hazard, said Jack J. Murphy, the director of the Fire Safety Directors Association. A biological or chemical attack could make the stairs or lobbies dangerous. Part of the new emergency planning will require people familiar with building ventilation systems, who can make sure that ducts are shut off to prevent the spread of contamination, Mr. Murphy said. 
 The new plans could include the use of elevators -- generally ruled out in fires -- to move people who could not negotiate stairs. However, said Desmond J. Burke, who studied the emergency planning issues for the Buildings Owners and Managers Association, elevators serve as pistons that push air through shafts throughout a building.
 The new evacuation plans are the first requirements under a law signed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in June, following a study of the events of Sept. 11 led by Patricia J. Lancaster, the commissioner of the City Buildings Department. 
 Other changes will come at a decidedly slower pace, including a requirement for backup power for stairway lights and exit signs, sprinklers and luminescent paint for stairwells. These will be made mandatory in office buildings between 2006 and 2019.
 These improvements had been made inside the trade center after the 1993 bombing, and they were generally regarded as being helpful during the evacuation in 2001. In fact, some of these changes were originally recommended by a city task force in 1993, after the first attack on the trade center, but were not acted on until this year, after legislation proposed by the mayor passed the City Council.
 A number of changes urged by Ms. Lancaster's task force were viewed with skepticism by the real estate industry, including wider staircases and special ''fire tower stairs'' used in older skyscrapers. She noted that the space devoted to staircases meant less rentable space on each floor. ''One inch on every staircase in every high rise is hundreds of thousands of dollars,'' Ms. Lancaster said.
 The city building code adopted in 1968 drastically curtailed the number of stairways required for skyscrapers, making it hard, if not impossible, for everyone in a tall building to leave at the same time, particularly if rescuers are trying to come up. According to a study by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the 1968 code effectively permitted the Port Authority to decrease the number of stairwells in the trade center from six to three in each of the towers -- a change sought by the real estate industry so that more space on each floor would be available for rent. (The Empire State Building, which opened in 1931, has nine staircases at its base.) 
 That code also eliminated another evacuation feature that the real industry felt ate up too much valuable space: the fire tower stairs, a stairway protected by four inches of concrete that was entered through a kind of air lock that protected the stairway from smoke.
 The availability of staircases at the trade center was a matter of life and death. Many people survived the initial impact of the plane crashes, but were unable to find a way downstairs, as five of the six stairways in the two towers became impassable.
 The city task force decided that it would wait for the final report from the standards and technology agency before acting on recommendations to require more stairway space and fire towers in new construction, Ms. Lancaster said. She noted that computer models now are able to predict fine details on how many people can move through a staircase. One major financial company, while building a new headquarters, used a computer model to study how many of its employees would able to evacuate if three bombs were exploded inside 20 minutes on different floors, according to Ms. Lancaster. The plans showed that many employees would still be able to escape.
 ''You have to balance safety and stimulate economic development,'' Ms. Lancaster said. ''If New York City wants to keep being the world's second home, we need its occupants to feel safe.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: While trade center workers made their way down on 9/11, a firefighter ran up the stairs in the north tower. (Photo by John Labriola/Associated Press)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Sufficient Stairwells''A change in the New York City building code in 1968 reduced the number of stairwells required in tall buildings. The Empire State Building, completed in 1931, has more escape routes than the World Trade Center, completed in 1970.FIRE TOWER -- A stairwell running the height of the building, accessed through a vestibule that functions as an air lock to keep smoke out.EMPIRE STATE BUILDING102 floors2.25 million square feet of office spaceAbout 15,000 occupants5 stairwells at the sixth floor, and the fire towerWORLD TRADE CENTER110 floorsAbout 4 million square feet of office spaceAbout 20,000 occupants3 stairwells throughout(Sources by Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
Empire State Building
 Carol Willis, the Skyscraper Museum)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; World Trade Center (NYC); Bombs and Explosives; Accidents and Safety; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Terrorism

PERSON: Jim Dwyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



114 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Fed Is Expected to Raise a Rate on Tuesday

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Despite a lull in economic growth and anxiety about the effect of high oil prices on spending, the Federal Reserve is expected to continue its strategy of gradually raising interest rates when policy makers meet next Tuesday.
 A raft of indicators suggest that economic growth slowed sharply last quarter, particularly in June, and may continue to be sluggish for a few more months. But Fed officials and many outside economists predict that the lull will be temporary and that activity will pick up again by the fall.
 On Wednesday, the Commerce Department released new data on orders for manufactured products that in many ways reinforced the signs of sluggish growth.
 But the economic picture is not clear and other indicators point to a renewed step-up in growth. Consumer confidence is back at high levels, and automobile sales last month jumped to an annual rate of 17.3 million cars and trucks from a rate of just over 15 million vehicles in June. 
 The most important evidence on the economy's recent pulse will be released at the end of this week. And while Fed officials will scrutinize that data on the job market's July performance, to be announced Friday by the Labor Department, most analysts believe central bankers are committed to raising the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks by a quarter-point, from 1.25 to 1.5 percent.
 Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet four times before the end of the year and unless the economy shows clear signs of further slowing, they are expected to keep raising rates at each of those sessions. And the process will probably not end there.
 ''The ebb and the flow of data is less important than it would otherwise be,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor. The main reason, he said, is that Fed officials know that short-term interest rates are still so far below normal -- adjusting for inflation, they are actually negative -- that they would eventually lead to rising prices if left unchanged. ''It is almost as if you close your eyes,'' Mr. Meyer added, ''until you get rates back up to about 2 percent.''
 All of that leaves the Federal Reserve with almost the opposite challenge it faced just two months ago. Back then, Fed officials were fending off critics who complained that they were ignoring signs of looming inflation. Now officials are arguing that the recent deceleration in growth is temporary, too.
 Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, went out of his way last month to brush off weak growth in jobs and consumer spending as a ''soft patch'' that ''should prove short-lived.'' 
 Other Fed officials have echoed that view. ''There is little indication that the labor market's progress is stalling,'' said Roger W. Ferguson, the central bank's vice chairman, in a speech on July 21. Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, described the slower growth as ''the usual fits and starts in a dynamic economy, not a significant change for the broad outlook.''
 The latest statistics do not clarify the situation. The government reported Wednesday that orders for manufactured goods jumped 0.7 percent in June over the month before, a bigger jump than many economists had expected. But most of that jump came from a surge in military spending, and in particular from orders for military aircraft, which shot up 79.1 percent. 
 Excluding orders for military equipment, orders for durable goods were nearly flat in June. Orders for household appliances declined 7.4 percent, while those for nonmilitary communications gear dropped 7.9 percent and for computers dropped 1.7 percent.
 Last week, the Commerce Department estimated that economic growth slowed to an annual rate of 3 percent in the second quarter of this year -- a big drop from growth of 4.5 percent in the first three months of this year. On Tuesday, the government reported that personal income dropped 0.7 percent in June -- and slightly more after accounting for inflation.
 But business surveys consistently show that manufacturers and service companies alike are optimistic and gearing up to hire more people. New claims for unemployment benefits have been well below 400,000 a week for months, indicating that employment should continue to expand. 
 ''When you add it all up, the trajectory of the economy is healthy and I'm looking at an annualized growth rate of 3.5 percent for the second half of the year,'' said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America.
 That would be lower than most economists, including those at the Fed, had been predicting. But it would still be at or slightly above the United States' long-run growth rate.
 Despite the ups and downs of economic growth, Mr. Greenspan and other policy makers still appear to be focused on labor costs, which have begun to rise as a share of total production costs even though hourly wages are lagging inflation.
 In Congressional testimony last month, Mr. Greenspan pointedly noted that unit labor costs have begun to edge up. Fed officials say a healthy economy should help push wages up gradually as companies come under growing pressure to hire more workers and keep up with rising demand, but Mr. Greenspan is hoping that companies will absorb many of those added costs by letting their currently fat profit margins shrink.
 Analysts say Mr. Greenspan's biggest challenge is to demonstrate a steady hand at the tiller. Because he warned investors for months in advance that the Fed would start raising rates at a ''measured'' pace, as it first did on June 30, investors are now expecting a series of additional quarter-point rate increases through the end of this year and into next year. 
 To retreat from that approach by not raising rates next week, they say, would run the risk of making investors more anxious about the economy and less confident of the Fed's stewardship. And most contend that the Fed will follow suit in September with another quarter-point increase even though that meeting will occur in the heart of the presidential election season. 
 ''A lot of people have said that the Fed was behind the curve,'' said Lyle E. Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior economic adviser at Schwab Soundview Capital Markets here. So if policy makers ''chicken out at the first sign of weak numbers, that could end up bothering the bond markets so much that it could be a negative for the economy.''
 The Labor Department's employment report on Friday will be an important indicator of the economy's underlying strength, and it is almost certain to shape the internal debate within the Fed meeting next Tuesday.
 Many economists are predicting that the data will show that the nation added more than 200,000 jobs in July, a rebound in job growth from the unexpectedly weak rate of 112,000 new jobs in June. The economy needs to add at least 125,000 jobs a month to keep up with population growth; there are still one million fewer jobs than before the recession began in 2001.
 But the monthly estimates of job creation are notoriously volatile, confounding forecasts almost every month and often prone to substantial revision in the months that follow. Partly for that reason, Fed officials have been loath to base policy changes on monthly surprises in either direction. 


CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates next week referred incorrectly to an economic statistic reported by the government on Tuesday. It was consumer spending that fell 0.7 percent in June. (Personal income rose 0.2 percent.)


GRAPHIC: Photos: Many indicators suggest that economic growth slowed sharply last quarter, particularly in June, and may continue to be sluggish for a few more months. Still, some economic sectors showed solid growth. Earlier this week, the government reported that personal income dropped 0.7 percent in June. (Photo by Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Victor Calzada/El Paso Times/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 The government reported yesterday that orders for manufactured goods jumped 0.7 percent in June over the month before. (Photo by William Thomas Cain for The New York Times)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Consumer Behavior; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); United States Armament and Defense; Military Aircraft; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Commerce Department

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



115 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: The House That Homework Built

BYLINE: By RAUL A. BARRENECHE

DATELINE: EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
DO deep pockets automatically make a better house? Michael Haverland doesn't think so. 
 With limitless funds, ''a house becomes all about using the most expensive wood you can find,'' said Mr. Haverland, a New York architect with a practice that includes high-end homes and low-cost public work. ''A tight budget will force you to be more inventive. And invention is, of course, more interesting.'' Nowhere would this distinction be more apt, it seems, than in the Hamptons, land of ample budgets ( the name Rennert comes to mind). 
 As if in rebuttal, Mr. Haverland has designed for himself a modernist home with soaring interiors, a loft in the woods modeled after the Maison de Verre, a house designed in 1932 by Pierre Chareau that has a cultlike following. (In 1946, Mr. Chareau built a house for Robert Motherwell in East Hampton incorporating two Quonset huts. It was demolished in 1985.) The Maison de Verre, with walls made of hundreds of glass blocks, has an enduring modern elegance, like a Barcelona chair or a Florence Knoll sofa. Its industrial candor, with perforated metal screens and exposed girders has acquired a graceful patina with time. 
 By relying on ingenuity and an almost obsessive fixation on details, Mr. Haverland built his house for just over $1 million, not including the price of the land or the time spent designing it literally down to the door handles. Even with the cost of the property, Mr. Haverland said his completely custom house came in under $2 million, significantly less than the off-the-shelf houses nearing completion at the well-publicized Houses at Sagaponac, the subdivision planned by Richard Meier, with 34 spec homes by celebrity architects. 
 Mr. Haverland's house is hardly affordable housing, but everything is relative, especially real estate.
 ''A lot of modern houses here end up being lazy modern,'' said Mr. Haverland, who is an assistant professor at the Yale School of Architecture. ''Modernism is really about economy of means and rigor, and how you design space. If you lose those values, it's just a superficial treatment of modern surfaces.'' Before moving in last November, Mr. Haverland, 37, and his partner, Philip Galanes, 40, a lawyer and novelist, rented a converted barn in East Hampton for five years as a weekend retreat from their duplex in the West Village. Their rental was a classic Hamptons charmer, complete with shingles and privet hedge. But the overstuffed floral-print sofas and toile wallpaper were not to their taste. After renting for a year, they decided to build a weekend home where they could indulge their taste for offbeat modernism. 
 For four years, Mr. Haverland and Mr. Galanes spent most weekends biking across the East End in search of property. 
 ''We must have cycled up and down every street from Southampton to Amagansett,'' said Mr. Galanes, whose debut novel, ''Father's Day,'' was published in June by Knopf. ''Especially in the winter, when the foliage was down and we could see the properties better. We were relentless.''
 Their pedaling paid off. After inspecting nearly 50 properties, Mr. Haverland and Mr. Galanes settled on a 1.1-acre parcel in East Hampton two years ago. 
 The property, set back almost 300 feet from Cove Hollow Road, appealed to them for its seclusion.
 ''It made me feel more comfortable about doing something that wasn't traditional,'' Mr. Haverland said. ''On a village lane I would have felt obligated to do a shingle house.'' 
 At first Mr. Galanes imagined modeling their home after classic West Coast Modernism, which he liked for its richly textured materials and indoor-outdoor spaces. ''But it doesn't make sense to create that kind of house where you have California weather for just two and a half months a year,'' he said. 
 On a trip to Paris, they visited the Maison de Verre. Much of its spirit shows up in the meticulously designed 3,900-square-foot house on Cove Hollow Road. Instead of glass block, Mr. Haverland built 12 1/2-foot-high walls of glass with black steel frames, which look like oversize factory windows. He painted the steel beams and columns on the inside black, creating a polished industrial look. ''The idea behind it was to create a simple glass box for the furniture,'' Mr. Haverland said. ''Even when it's boiling hot out and you're inside with the air-conditioning running, you still feel like you're outdoors.''
 Charles Gwathmey, whose 1965 design for his parents' home in Amagansett is considered a classic of beach house Modernism, called Mr. Haverland's house ''very inventive.'' ''Sometimes rigor can be a detriment,'' he added. ''In this case it's a benefit.''
 Building a house can test any relationship, especially when both parties have strong convictions. Mr. Haverland is the architect in the household, but Mr. Galanes knows a thing or two about design, especially Modern furniture, which he collects. (He has two classic midcentury desks in his office: one by Jean Prouve, the other by Jacques Adnet.)
 Mr. Galanes resigned in 2001 as chief operating officer of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the children's book company. He now has a budding business advising collectors on the acquisition of Modernist furniture, rugs, fabrics and lighting. 
 Mr. Haverland and Mr. Galanes's only fight involved the 12 1/2-foot ceilings in the living and dining areas. Mr. Galanes felt they were too tall. But after much discussion, Mr. Haverland convinced him that the height offset the house's 40-foot width. ''They don't seem so tall because your eye is drawn out to the landscape and the sky,'' he said.
 The men insist the design was a collaboration, but they interacted like architect and client, with Mr. Galanes throwing out ideas and Mr. Haverland figuring out ways to execute them. ''I just said what I wanted and somehow Michael made it all happen,'' Mr. Galanes said. 
 Early in the design, Mr. Galanes's critiques of the glass walls sent Mr. Haverland back to the drawing board for two months. ''The mullions were so thick,'' Mr. Galanes said. ''I thought they were just awful.''
 His suggestion paid off. The glass walls, modeled after 1930's French factory windows, got thinner mullions that reflect sunlight, which makes them appear even thinner. Unlike drafty old windows, the walls of insulated glass do not make the house expensive to heat and cool, in part because overhangs keep the sun out in summer. In winter, 350 yards of chenille curtains and a blackout curtain liner separated by six-inch air spaces keep the cold air out. Mr. Haverland said his electric bill averages $150 a month, $50 less than the one they received for their old shingle house.
 Mr. Galanes tends to follow his instincts. Mr. Haverland, on the other hand, is painstakingly meticulous and fixated on detail. ''I can't make a choice until I know every single option,'' he said. ''It's exhausting.'' He sampled 30 different stains for the mahogany fascias of the roof overhangs before finding one that exactly matched the reddish-brown of the oak pocket doors. 
 The turquoise fabric they picked for a pair of 1950's Marco Zanuso armchairs they found in Rome was Mr. Galanes's first choice. ''But Michael made us look at about 10,000 fabric swatches,'' Mr. Galanes said. 
 Mr. Haverland kept costs in check by using inexpensive materials that don't look cheap. For example, the bathroom walls are finished in a painted Masonite that costs $1.50 a square foot. ''It has a certain warmth to it,'' Mr. Haverland said. ''I always thought it would be beautiful if it were detailed properly.''
 Wherever they went, the men searched shops and antiques stores for reasonably priced antique sinks, tubs, wooden doors and door hardware that would warm up the house's clean modernism with the patina they had admired in the Maison de Verre. ''I wanted to find things that wouldn't otherwise be used in a modern house like this, to use materials cleverly and in quirky ways,'' Mr. Haverland said.
 In Palm Springs, Calif., the couple spotted brass trivets from the 1960's for $7 each at a shop called Antique Collective. They liked the filigreed shape and patina, so they bought six without knowing what to do with them. They ended up turning them into light sconces by attaching the trivets to brass dowels that they screwed into the wall. Mr. Haverland bought three copies of ''The Lilies,'' a book with reproductions of Pierre-Joseph Redoute's early 19th-century botanical prints, at the Strand bookstore in Manhattan for $29.95 each. He planned to tear out the color plates and use them to decoupage the kitchen cabinets, but wound up using color photocopies of the drawings because he could enlarge or reduce them to fit the cabinet fronts. 
 The home's inventiveness, rigor and wide-open spaces fit Mr. Haverland's definition of an authentically modern house. Whether they appreciate that or not, eagle-eyed house hunters have taken notice: Mr. Haverland and Mr. Galanes recently received a $3 million offer. But it is not for sale. ''They're going to have to drag us out of here feet first,'' Mr. Haverland said.

Searching Hard To Keep It Simple
 TO furnish their house, Michael Haverland and Philip Galanes cast a wide net. An Eames rocker, below, was about $600 at a Treadway-Toomey Galleries auction in Chicago years ago; www.treadwaygallery.com. Olde Good Things, in Scranton, Pa., had 1930's French country sinks ($700), claw-foot tubs ($650) and brass chandeliers ($2,400 for three). The store has branches in New York: (888) 551-7333 or www.oldegoodthings.com. The Brass Knob in Washington, (202) 332-3370, supplied an antique wood stove ($900) and glass and porcelain doorknobs ($30 to $50). Vintage push-button light switches ($14.95 to $29.95) came from Classic Accents in Southgate, Mich., www.classicaccents.net or (800) 245-7742. 
 Mr. Haverland made sconces with $7 brass trivets from Antique Collective in Palm Springs, Calif.; (760) 323-4443. Vermont Salvage Exchange in White River Junction, Vt., (802) 295-7616, had solid paneled doors for $125. Turkish travertine floor tiles ($4.50 a square foot) came from Stone Locator in Falls Church, Va., www.stonelocator.com or (800) 503-1099. Reissued William Morris wallpaper for the room dividers was $125 a yard from Charles Rupert in Victoria, British Columbia, (250) 592-4916. And a Jean Prouve desk was $7,500 from Patrick Marchand, a New York dealer, (212) 255-9481. RAUL A. BARRENECHE


GRAPHIC: Photos: LONG ISLAND LOFT -- A modernist house in the Hamptons by Michael Haverland, left, has mullions for windows and doors, above right, giving scale to 12-foot ceilings. Mr. Haverland modeled it on the 1932 Maison de Verre, by Pierre Chareau. (Photographs by Laurie Lambrecht for The New York Times
styling by Elizabeth Botero)(pg. F1)
THE COLLECTION -- Decoupaged copies of 19th-century botanical prints in the kitchen, above, with a 1930's French sink, early 1900's milk-glass hanging fixtures and a 1940's crystal globe from a Paris flea market. A room divider papered in a William Morris pattern and an early 70's Raymond Loewy console, of molded plastic with a metal frame, left, define a dining area. Philip Galanes, far left, has a study with a Saarinen Womb chair and a Jean Prouve desk and chair. Overhangs, right, block the sun in summer and curtains, below, hold in the heat in winter. In the foreground, below, an ironwood chair
behind it, a Little Tulip chair by Pierre Paulin, a Dunbar sofa and Eames leather chair prototypes. (Photographs by Laurie Lambrecht for The New York Times
 styling by Elizabeth Botero)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%) Housing; Interior Design ; Home Furnishings; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Michael Haverland; Richard Meier; Raul A Barreneche

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (59%) East Hampton (NY); Sagaponack (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



116 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: The Bodies Are Buried, So a Play Can Be Unearthed

BYLINE: By WILBORN HAMPTON

 BODY:
It is an accepted assumption of the theater that every playwright has an unproduced play stuck away in a drawer somewhere. The same assumption holds that such plays are usually youthful efforts, and that all urges to take them out of the drawer should be repressed, lest they bring embarrassment to the playwright and consternation to admirers.
 But that isn't the case with ''The Day Emily Married,'' one of the plays that Horton Foote has kept tucked away for years. It is receiving its first major commercial production, opening tonight at Primary Stages, starring Estelle Parsons, William Biff McGuire and Hallie Foote, the playwright's daughter, and directed by Michael Wilson. 
 Mr. Foote, 88, was long established as one of America's leading playwrights and screenwriters when he wrote it. The reason it has not been staged before has more to do with his gentlemanly sense of propriety than any reluctance by a producer to stage it. ''I would hate to think that anyone I cared about would be upset by anything I wrote,'' Mr. Foote said in a recent interview. ''Although the events in the play take a very different turn, it is based on real people who were very dear to me. But anyone who might have felt upset by the play have now gone to their rewards, so I felt the time was right to have it staged.''
 Theatergoers familiar with Mr. Foote's considerable body of work might be surprised that anyone could be upset by anything he wrote. But while ''The Day Emily Married'' is set in the familiar Foote territory of Harrison, Tex., and deals with a family confronting crisis, in other ways it represents something of a departure from Mr. Foote's other plays in that it has a more cynical edge.
 Although a hallmark of Mr. Foote's plays and films is the humanity he finds in even the most seemingly despicable characters, in ''The Day Emily Married'' one character might challenge the notion that there is something good in everybody. Mr. Foote said he did not rework the play when he first pulled it out of the drawer. He said that he sent it to Primary Stages first because he knew the company had a new theater and that he especially wanted Ms. Parsons and Mr. McGuire in two of the roles.
 As a playwright, Mr. Foote said, he has learned to rely on actors to find the saving grace in even the most shameful behavior.
 ''I adore actors,'' he said. ''I always learn something from them. Another reality takes place when you hear the words spoken by someone else. They use their imagination and raise questions you may not have asked. I learned a lot about all the characters after we began rehearsals. An actress like Estelle, for example, finds meanings that you didn't know were there.''
 So since rehearsals began, Mr. Foote has been writing and rewriting every day, changing the play in subtle ways as actors brought a broader view to it. And it is in that broader view that the humanity of the characters takes shape, puts on flesh and bone.
 ''When you get a full picture, you realize that everybody had a part to play in what happened,'' Mr. Foote said. ''Promises were made and not kept. There was betrayal all around.''
 Running throughout the play is the familiar Foote theme of change, its inevitability and its toll on the human spirit. As with his last major play, ''The Carpetbagger's Children,'' which was staged two years ago at Lincoln Center, ''The Day Emily Married'' is set during a time of great change, when modern machinery and the discovery of oil were jointly transforming the American economy. The cotton-picking machine was throwing tenant farmers off the land, and oil speculation, with its get-rich-quick fever to dig up the cotton fields in search of black gold, was fostering greed.
 But if there was an elegiac quality to ''The Carpetbagger's Children,'' a rueful look at the passing of time tinged with hope for the new opportunities, ''The Day Emily Married'' looks at the more sinister side of change.
 ''In our culture, ambition and progress are always deemed to be good,'' Mr. Foote said. ''But at some point you have to reckon the cost that it can exact on us, individually and as a country.''
 ''All of life is change,'' he continued. ''Some is good, and some is bad. When I first came to New York, there was more interest in plays and playwrights than in the economic situation of the theater. Now it seems all anybody wants is money. The last time I was in Los Angeles I was talking to a couple of directors about movies. But the only movies they talked about were the films that made a lot of money.''
 Anyone familiar with Mr. Foote's career knows that money has never been his major consideration. Whatever the theater or movie fashion of the time, he has consistently written from the heart, and has transformed his fictional Robedaux family of Harrison, Tex., much like Faulkner's Snopes family in Yoknapatawpha County, into a microcosm of the American heart and soul. Mr. Foote's family is known mainly through a nine-play series known as ''The Orphans' Home Cycle.'' ''The Day Emily Married'' is ''not really a part of the cycle, although I guess it could be,'' Mr. Foote said, since it does continue the story of the Robedaux family.
 As it turns out, Lyd, the character played by Ms. Parsons, says that she is a Robedaux. ''Lyd would have been an aunt to Horace, and took him into her home,'' he said, referring to a central character in the cycle.
 The real-life model for Lyd was special to Mr. Foote as a young man. ''I adored Lyd,'' he said. ''Lyd was my link to the past. She was my great aunt and one of the most forceful influences on me. She had a great memory and was sort of the family chronicle. But she could also exaggerate, and once I caught on to that it opened a whole new world of possibilities for me as a writer.''
 Is ''The Day Emily Married'' the last his audiences will hear of the Robedaux family? A sheepish grin crossed his face. ''This is a great problem for me,'' he replied. ''I have three other plays in the drawer. But it would just kill me to upset anybody by having them done while they were still alive.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Horton Foote's newly produced play has a more cynical edge than his others. (Photo by Rod Aydelotte/Associated Press)(pg. E1)
 James Colby and Hallie Foote in ''The Day Emily Married.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); WRITERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Primary Stages Co

PERSON: Horton Foote; Michael Wilson; Estelle Parsons; William Biff Mcguire; Hallie Foote; Wilborn Hampton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



117 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Protesters in Sudan Oppose U.N.'s Demands

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
More than 100,000 people protested Wednesday in Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, against Security Council action on Sudan, but Secretary General Kofi Annan said the world organization would not be deterred from helping to end the violence in the country's western Darfur region.
 The marchers, who news agencies reported had been organized by the government, demonstrated outside United Nations offices and accused the organization of providing cover for an American attack on the country like those in Afghanistan and Iraq.
 ''Annan, Annan, you coward, we will not be ruled by the Americans,'' they shouted, Reuters reported.
 ''Sometimes governments use these demonstrations to put pressure on the U.N. and to send a message to the international community,'' Mr. Annan said. ''Some of the statements are not necessarily for you or me, but for people on the ground.'' 
 On Friday, the Security Council adopted a resolution drafted by the United States that threatened the Khartoum government with punitive measures if it did not show substantial progress in 30 days in disarming and apprehending marauding militia fighters and halting the violence in the Darfur region.
 The United Nations estimates that the government-equipped Arab militias, known as the Janjaweed, have killed more than 30,000 black Africans and driven 1.2 million of them off their land and into camps for displaced people in Sudan and refugee camps in neighboring Chad.
 Mr. Annan said the United Nations was now focused on helping the African Union increase its involvement in Sudan. He also said that he was sending a military advisory team to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to help the 53-member union organize troops and broaden its responsibilities.
 He said that in a meeting he held last week in Accra, Ghana, with the chairman of the African Union, Olusegan Obasanjo, the Nigerian president, that agreement emerged among union members that they should increase the size of the union's force for Sudan beyond the planned 300.
 The African Union spokesman, Adam Thiam, said Wednesday in Nairobi, Kenya, that the number would be raised to at least 2,000, and Mr. Annan suggested that their mandate would be broadened beyond their original assignment of providing safety for 96 unarmed observers. 
 Mr. Annan said they would now be asked to protect camps where the rebel soldiers are to be disarmed.
 ''I expect the mere presence on the ground would also have a positive impact and dissuade further attacks by Janjaweed and outlaw groups,'' he said.
 Francis Deng, a Sudanese who is Mr. Annan's representative for internally displaced people, said he believed that assigning public responsibility for peacekeeping efforts to the African Union would be the best way to assure cooperation from Khartoum.
 Referring to the group by its initials, he said, ''The fact that the A.U. has come out and said that this is an African problem which Africans should solve has given the Sudanese government a sort of umbrella or cover that is making the A.U. more appealing to them compared to what else might happen.''
 ''As a result, we have a good prospect of getting close cooperation with the government by working within the framework of the A.U.,'' he said. ''A lot can be done by the international community to strengthen the A.U. to carry out the mandate without the international community being seen directly to be intervening in a military sense.''
 Mr. Annan said he still expected Khartoum to comply with the Security Council's demands within the allotted 30 days. ''They should be able to take steps to calm the situation, to stop the attacks, to protect the people and to continue the disarmament,'' he said. 
 Asked about reports of misunderstanding in Khartoum over just what the Sudanese government had to do to ward off sanctions, he said: ''So there will be no confusion or no excuses, the emphasis is on protection of the population and disarmament of the Janjaweed and other outlaw forces. If they begin to protect the people, the people will know it, and we will know it.''
 He added, ''The Council made it clear that if they fail to perform, there will be consequences, and I hope that, if they do fail to perform, all the Council members will be ready to act.''
 Ambassador Andrey Denisov of Russia, the Security Council president, said that the 15-member panel is scheduled to receive the report on which it will base its decision on Aug. 30.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sudanese demonstrated yesterday at the United Nations office in Khartoum against the organization's intervention in the Darfur region. (Photo by Khaled el Fiqi/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); RIOTS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); REFUGEES (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); POLITICS (62%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Demonstrations and Riots; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); AFRICAN UNION (82%) United Nations; African Union

PERSON: Warren Hoge; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (95%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) SUDAN (99%); AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (92%); GHANA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Sudan; Khartoum (Sudan); Darfur Province (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



118 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Speculators Place Bets on Oil, Roiling Fickle Energy Market

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Oil prices touched another record high on Wednesday, and then fell by more than a dollar a barrel, as turbulent markets reacted to new promises of greater production.
 The energy markets have become more volatile in recent months, traders and analysts say, as speculators and large institutional investors, frustrated by the lackluster equity and bond markets, turn to oil in search of richer returns. Their activity is helping to move crude prices faster and farther than market fundamentals would seem to warrant, and not always in the expected direction. 
 On Wednesday, the most widely followed barometer of the market, low-sulfur crude oil for delivery next month, briefly traded as high as $44.34 a barrel, then swiftly plunged to $43.99 at the close of floor trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. By the end of the day, the contract had settled at $42.83 a barrel. 
 Two new developments helped relieve upward pressure on prices. The Energy Department released figures showing that gasoline inventories had grown by 2.4 million barrels, to 210.1 million. Separately, Saudi Arabia said that it would start pumping crude oil from new fields three months ahead of schedule and that it would delay the closing of some wells. 
 But traders said that it was anybody's guess as to which way prices might be headed next. ''In this environment, even seasoned professionals find themselves scratching their heads,'' said Jay M. Levine, an institutional energy broker with Advest Group based in Portsmouth, N.H. 
 Both the unpredictability of price movements and the unexpectedly rapid 35 percent run-up in oil prices this year can be traced in part to major growth in trading activity in the oil markets. According to the most recent available figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the total value of open interests in crude oil-based futures and option contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange grew 32.7 percent, or $26.6 billion, over the 12 months ended in mid-June. 
 ''Speculators don't set the price, but they intensify a price movement in either direction, beyond or below what the fundamentals warrant,'' said James Burkhard, director of oil market analysis at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. ''So far, they've intensified this increase.''
 Much of the increased speculation has come from hedge funds, which continued to attract billions of dollars in fresh capital from wealthy investors. Some $38.1 billion flowed into hedge funds in the first quarter of this year, according to Tremont Capital Management. Of that amount, Tremont's figures show, some $5.5 billion went to macro funds, which try to profit from speculating on broad global trends and geopolitical disruptions; another $3.9 billion went into funds specializing in futures. Both types are likely to be betting on oil price movements using options and futures contracts. 
 ''As more money moved into hedge funds, it has driven fund managers to look at oil, because there is only so much interest-rate position you can take,'' said David Kitson, head of global energy at J.P. Morgan in London. 
 Traders and analysts estimate that about 200 hedge funds now have significant positions in the energy markets. They said that some pension funds have recently become avid investors in oil futures. 
 The flood of new entrants to the market has prompted some concerns, because investing in futures markets can be exponentially riskier than investing in equities. ''This is not for widows and orphans,'' said Peter Beutel, president of Cameron Hanover, an energy-risk management firm in New Canaan, Conn. ''Commodity prices move very quickly.'' 
 When they do, the least experienced players may be hit hardest. ''This is a game that takes advantage of the weak,'' Mr. Levine of Advest said. ''New speculators are the most ill-prepared for volatility.'' 
 Hedge fund managers often try to ride market trends, much like surfing a wave. Taken together, their bets can become self-fulfilling prophecies for a while. In May, when low inventories and news of violent attacks on oil executives and facilities in Saudi Arabia drove oil futures up, speculators piled on, according to market analysts. Their buying forced crude prices up even higher, attracting yet more investors betting on a continued rise, and so on in a classic spiral. 
 Some old market hands who based their strategies on historic trends and values were trampled in the stampede. 
 ''It has been difficult to trade this market, because it has become detached from the fundamentals,'' Mr. Kitson said. ''If you believe oil should be at $42 a barrel and it goes to $45, you're going to have a tough time'' making a profit.
 Analysts noted that speculative spirals can push prices down as well as up, and that if the sentiment among the hedge funds were to turn bearish, oil prices could fall as far and as fast as they have risen, and overshoot market fundamentals in the other direction. 
 But for now, at least, those market watchers who were willing to hazard a prediction said the upward momentum in oil prices would probably continue. ''I don't see anything stopping it from going to $50 in the short term,'' said Floyd Upperman, a commodity trading adviser based in Canal Winchester, Ohio. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker took a sample from an oil storage tank in Hamburg, Germany, yesterday as crude oil traded above $44 a barrel. (Photo by Christian Charisius/Reuters)
A trader grimaced on the floor of the International Petroleum Exchange in London on Tuesday as the price of oil increased. The exchange is Europe's leading energy futures and options marketplace. (Photo by John D. McHugh/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 John Hughes unloaded gasoline at a Hess station in Revere, Mass., yesterday. The cost of filing up an automobile has soared. (Photo by Neal Hamberg/Bloomberg News)(pg. C7)Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since Feb. 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C7)Graph ''Rising Volatility'' tracks average daily change in oil prices, since October 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); GASOLINE (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); BONDS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Production; Reserves (Natural Resources); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: IHS INC (63%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) Energy Department

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GERMANY (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



119 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: If higher education is so important to the economy, why is its financing being cut more than that of other large programs?

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His most recent book is Why Economies Grow (Basic Books/Century Foundation). E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
TO economists, higher education is like motherhood or apple pie. It will cure just about anything, from globalization and outsourcing to technological change and income inequality. Nothing could be quite as good as all that, of course. No matter how well Americans are educated, global competition and rapidly changing technology will take some toll on American labor markets.
 Nevertheless, the data on the benefits of higher education in the United States are overwhelmingly convincing. The spread of education is the best way to address the nation's economic problems. 
 According to the 2000 census, for example, the median income of an American man with a college degree was about $52,200, 60 percent higher than the $31,600 for those with a high school degree. The proportions are about the same for women. In fact, the incomes of those with a high school degree have not grown on average since the 1970's. 
 So why, when international competition is such a threat, are states, which finance the bulk of higher education, cutting back significantly on their budgets? Part of the reason is that state budgets have been under pressure since the recession, and they are receiving little extra help from the Bush administration. 
 But the cuts go beyond that. States are cutting more from higher education budgets than from other large programs. The National Conference of State Legislatures reports that California is cutting its general fund appropriations for higher education by 8.9 percent, Texas by 5.4 percent and New York by 2.3 percent. In all, nearly half of states are making outright cuts, and, over all, state spending on higher education will fall by an average of 2.6 percent in fiscal 2004 after also falling in 2003. 
 States have other pressing needs, of course, from Medicaid to welfare. But the United States, says Pat Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, in San Jose, Calif., has for some time been making it more difficult for students, especially those from lower-income families, to afford college. It is quite a commentary on the nation's sense of priorities. The American people, always supportive of higher education spending, have apparently not quite caught up to the facts. 
 First, the case for investing in higher education is stronger than ever. We of course all know some people with a great education who earn a lot less than their peers with a lesser one. But the gaps in average income between those with degrees and those without are enormous. And the more education the better. The median annual income for men with graduate degrees was more than $66,300, more than twice the high school graduate's earnings. 
 Second, higher levels of education are critical to economic growth. A new study by two economists, Edward L. Glaeser of Harvard University and Albert Saiz of the University of Pennsylvania, provides another example of this. The researchers analyzed the statistical relationship between education levels and the economic growth of cities. ''Aside from climate, skill composition may be the most powerful predictor of growth,'' they write. 
 Boston, where there is a high proportion of college graduates, is the perfect example. Well-educated people can react more quickly to technological changes and learn new skills more readily. Even without the climate advantages of a city like San Jose, Calif., Boston evolved into what we now think of as an ''information city.'' By comparison, Detroit, with lower levels of education, languished. 
 So, how are we faring with our higher education? It is simply getting much harder for students to afford college and graduate school. And the nation, Mr. Callan said, is making far less progress enrolling high school graduates than is widely presumed. 
 First, state and federal aid have not risen nearly as rapidly as public and private tuitions for 25 years. Last year, for example, the College Board reports, tuition for an average four-year state school rose 14 percent, but average state aid rose only 3 percent. 
 As a consequence, students take longer to finish college so they can work to defray costs, and they borrow more to pay their way. In the 1960's, according to the Higher Education Research Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, about 48 percent of students finished their bachelor's degrees in four years. Now, about 36 percent do. And according to the latest analysis from the National Center for Education Statistics, students today owe about twice as much as they did 10 years ago, adjusted for inflation. 
 Most disturbing, lower-income students are not getting a chance to catch up with their better-off peers. Families in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution, who earn on average about $12,500 a year, are simply overwhelmed by college costs. Tuition, room and board at public four-year colleges averages $10,500, and typical aid is about $2,200 a year. The net expenditure, before borrowing, comes to nearly 70 percent of the average income. Small wonder many of the poor give up on college even before they graduate from high school. 
 More generally, even America's much ballyhooed lead over its rival nations in higher-education enrollment is being eroded, a fact that seems widely unknown. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development reports that countries like France, Ireland and Spain now have almost as high a proportion of 18-to-24-year-olds enrolled in college as this country does. Perhaps more surprising, it takes Americans so long to get their degrees that the United States now ranks only sixth among O.E.C.D. nations in the proportion of the population who have a bachelor's degree by their mid-20's. 
 Mr. Callan believes colleges and universities are part of the problem. They should tie their tuition increases, he argues, to annual increases in median family income by state. And states, he adds, should channel more of their aid to lower-income families. Finally, more aid is needed. 
 There is a myth in the land that America's lead in higher education is unassailable. But spending on higher education is the first to go when times get tough, and the consequences are at last starting to show. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: For many lower-income families, college has become the impossible American dream. (Photo by Larry Steagall/The Sun/Associated Press)Chart: ''Education Cuts''Here are the states that have made the biggest cuts in education spending in the current fiscal year.MassachusettsSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- $780PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -21.5%ColoradoSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 591PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -13.7West VirginiaSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 359PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -10.1South CarolinaSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 624PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -9.8TennesseeSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 1,046PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -9.3CaliforniaSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 8,653PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -8.9WisconsinSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 871PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -7.7MichiganSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 1,922PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -6.2VirginiaSTATE EDUCATION SPENDING FISCAL 2004, IN MILLIONS -- 1,239PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2003 -- -5.7(Source by National Conference of State Legislatures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CENSUS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MEDICAID (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (82%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Jeff Madrick

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



120 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Under Your Nose, the Next Big Thing?

BYLINE: By ERNEST BECK

 BODY:
IS the vanilla candle ready for the ash heap of history? Has incense met its match?
 Candles and incense have long been used to mask nasty odors or create a special mood. But in an age when microprocessors are transforming every aspect of domestic life, more sophisticated (and pricey) devices are appearing on the market to freshen up the 21st-century home.
 Taking the technology to the next level, on Aug. 16 Procter & Gamble is scheduled to introduce Scentstories -- an extension of its Febreze line that resembles a CD player and spins scented disks with themes such as ''exploring a mountain trail'' and ''wandering barefoot on the shore.'' Just pop one in; a heating element warms up aromatic wax in the disk and an electric fan diffuses the fragrance, evolving the mix, like a D.J., over two and a half hours. (The ''stories'' in Scentstories follow a familiar path, like a guided meditation from a psychiatrist: now you are on the trail, now you smell the junipers. . . .) The price is $34.99 compared with $1.59 for a can of Glade Hawaiian Breeze air freshener. 
 As Scentstories suggests, smell is the next big accessory for the home, or what people in the field call ''air care.'' With consumers already saturated by visual stimulation from supersize television screens and audio stimulation from iPods, manufacturers are trying to excite a different organ: the nose.
 The German bathroom fittings company Dornbracht, for example, is developing a shower system called Rain Sky that coordinates different water sprays -- a fine mist, say, or a torrential tropical storm -- with complementary scents. Hit a control panel on the $5,000 contraption, which is expected to be available next year, and out comes a scent that goes with the flow.
 Glade itself has offered PlugIns, air fresheners that respond to heat; now the company has added Glade PlugIns oil scents, with built-in variable-speed fans to increase air circulation.
 And if you can't get out of bed to make a cup of coffee, a Hammacher Schlemmer alarm clock is now available that provides a java jolt by warming up coffee-scented beads (Timex makes one, too).
 Forget the trend toward simplifying your life through PayPal and Ikea furniture. This olfactory explosion implies that in some areas, people yearn for more complexity, not less. ''Consumers want to be stimulated in a multisensory, multidimensional way,'' said Bernd Schmitt, a professor of marketing at the Columbia Business School in New York.
 That could spell doom for low-tech candles, which lose potency as they burn and the pooled wax solidifies. Candle sales have been flat since 2000 as consumers migrated to an array of innovative air fresheners in the form of gels, concentrated sprays and plug-in diffusers, according to Euromonitor International, a market research company.
 Americans are already fanatical about fresh-smelling homes. In 2003, they spent $1.7 billion on scented products -- from the trusty spray behind the toilet to a perfumed frame for a cat or dog's portrait (called Frame-a-Pet), according to a Euromonitor report. That was a 5.1 percent increase over the previous year and the surge is likely to continue. In times of war and economic uncertainty, the report concluded, air fresheners ''create a comforting, familiar environment free from danger and external threats.''
 Carl Kaiser, senior perfumer at Procter & Gamble, said the Febreze Scentstories provide a refuge, because scent evokes pleasant memories. ''We always need a lift from our more hectic lives,'' Mr. Kaiser said. ''Just talk to a soccer mom.'' The scented disks, Mr. Kaiser added, ''take you where you want on command.''
 I didn't get far on my Scentstories journey. As the mountain trail disk whirred in the player, a whiff of talcum powder spread across the room. The scent grew sweeter and was tinged with Pine-Sol after the disk skipped from ''following the winding creek'' to my final stop, ''gazing at tall firs.'' A disk I didn't try features riffs on a vanilla theme: creamy, nut cake, French, nectar and taffy.
 John Sebastian, the product's brand manager, said Scentstories was developed after market research indicated that consumers pined for ''multiple scents that change with their moods.'' That's how Procter & Gamble came up with the olfactory equivalent of a jukebox. ''There is a simplistic beauty to it,'' he added.
 Considerably more low tech, a Canadian company, Fruits and Passions, is marketing bamboo sticks called ''fragrant wands,'' which are infused with scents. The fragrant wands ($12 for a big handful) can be kept on a kitchen counter in a faux spaghetti jar (another $8) and deployed as a kind of olive oil or coriander potpourri to enhance the ambience while you whip up a meal. After all, said France Guay, the firm's chief marketing director, ''you don't want the smell of roses when you're cooking -- it won't blend.''
 I decided to test drive the ginger and Sicilian lemon wands with the ultimate challenge: reheated Chinese food. I uncorked the jar, as instructed, and waited. Then I waved the wands like a symphony conductor while stirring the food.
 Sadly, the Hunan chicken won the scent smackdown.
 The bedroom is a sensitive place for aromas, so I was curious about Hammacher Schlemmer's Progression Wake Up Clock. Priced at $49.95, it disperses four different fragrances, including Calming Lavender and Stress Relief. I chose Morning Cafe and loaded the aroma beads into a small plastic cup atop the clock. Expecting Starbucks espresso, I was disappointed when the aroma was more metallic Nescafe.
 Sabrina Balthazar, a spokeswoman for Hammacher Schlemmer, said the clock is popular because there's no mess or dripping (a first version using heated, scented oils was dropped). Still, ''you wake up to the smell of coffee -- not exactly the same smell but a coffeelike smell,'' Ms. Balthazar said.
 Dornbracht's Rain Sky shower is more expensive and elaborate than a clock, a wand or a fragrant disk. The product's scenting apparatus is not for masking odors but for recovering happy memories in the bathroom, an intimate place of retreat and contemplation, said Andreas Dornbracht, the company's managing director. ''We want to link the feeling of water with a certain smell, to create the right emotion,'' Mr. Dornbracht said, speaking by phone from Germany.
 Technically, the shower unit is a flat panel that is flush with the ceiling. Concealed behind the panel will be nozzles and valves that, when activated, infuse the water with microdoses of a scent. If the spray resembles a monsoon or a tropical rain, the aroma may be junglelike, Mr. Dornbracht said. Three to five combinations are under consideration, including a light, midsummer Nordic mist accompanied by a fresh, brisk fragrance.
 As technology drives the evolution of air freshening products, the question is whether consumers will go for more expensive gadgets like Scentstories. Wendy Liebmann, president of WSL Strategic Retail, a New York marketing and retail consulting company, said it could be a struggle. ''Consumers will pay a higher price for innovation, but who is willing to pay almost $40 to walk up a mountain?'' Ms. Liebmann said, noting that there are less expensive ways to deodorize your home.
 ''This is Glade for the affluent set,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos/Drawings: AIR CARE -- The Rain Sky from Dornbracht, above, dispenses a jungle smell with a monsoon-style shower
left, the Scentstories jukebox
below, nothing says wake up like the smell of coffee. (Illustrations by Milan Trenc
 above and top left, photographs by Lars Klove for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); SIMPLE LIVING (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (76%); TOILETRIES MFG (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); TRENDS (71%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (64%); WEATHER (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (55%); MEDITATION (52%) Odors; Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); PAYPAL INC (51%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Ernest Beck

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



121 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Drop in Oil Prices Leads to a Small Gain for Dow

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks eked out slim gains yesterday, as a drop in oil prices prompted investors to buy recently beaten-down shares. But the Nasdaq composite index ended slightly lower after a disappointing outlook from the online travel booker and media conglomerate InterActiveCorp. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.27 points, or 0.06 percent, to close at 10,126.51. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 1.06 points, or 0.10 percent, to 1,098.63. The Nasdaq composite index fell 4.36 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,855.06. 
 Oil futures dropped sharply after an unexpected rise in United States gasoline inventories and after OPEC said it had spare production capacity. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for September delivery fell $1.32 to settle at $42.83 a barrel -- far below the record high of $44.34 reached in overnight electronic trading. 
 Oil prices have risen by more than a third since the end of 2003 on worries that accelerating global demand has left supplies tightly stretched with little leeway for disruption.
 As crude oil prices fell Wednesday afternoon, the stock market rallied from its lows, but it was not able to hold all of its gains until the close.
 ''The market is really driven here by short-term traders,'' said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. ''Serious investors have taken the summer off, and the momentum traders are motivated largely by the change in oil prices.'' 
 The drop in crude prices hurt the stocks of major oil producers like the Exxon Mobil Corporation and the ChevronTexaco Corporation, which were the two biggest drags on the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
 Exxon Mobil was also the biggest weight on the Dow, falling 65 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $46.24. ChevronTexaco dropped $2.06, or 2.1 percent, to $96.60.
 Shares of InterActiveCorp fell $4.23, or 16 percent, to $22.80 and exerted the biggest negative pull on the Nasdaq.
 Shares of the Ciena Corporation, the telecommunications equipment maker, tumbled after the company said that third-quarter sales would miss expectations. Ciena was downgraded earlier on Wednesday by J.P. Morgan to ''underweight'' from ''neutral.''
 Ciena's stock dropped 68 cents, or 25 percent, to $2.08, just above the all-time low of $2.06 it reached during the session.
 Shares of Eli Lilly & Company rose after the company said United States regulators had approved its new antidepressant, Cymbalta, a drug that analysts say will be central to the company's growth. Lilly was up 43 cents, to $63.65.
 The industrial conglomerate Honeywell International Inc. fell 34 cents to $36.66, after UBS downgraded it to ''reduce'' from ''neutral.'' Among the factors UBS noted in the downgrade was a slowdown in defense spending. 
 Trading was moderate, with about 1.37 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, below the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. About 1.66 billion shares were traded on the Nasdaq, below the 1.69 billion daily average last year.
 The number of advancing issues was about even with the number of decliners on the New York Stock Exchange. Decliners outnumbered advancers by about 17 to 14 on the Nasdaq.
 Helping the market was some encouraging economic news from the Commerce Department, which said factory orders advanced 0.7 percent in June, after a revised 0.4 percent gain in May. Economists had expected June factory orders to rise 0.5 percent.
 The data were more upbeat than many June numbers and dovetailed with an Institute for Supply Management poll Monday showing that United States factories picked up their pace in July.
 A separate I.S.M. report yesterday showed that strength spilled into the service sector, which accounts for 80 percent of the United States economy. The I.S.M. nonmanufacturing index rose to 64.8 in July from 59.9 in June. Wall Street had expected a weaker 61.0 reading. 
 United States Treasury prices rose slightly yesterday. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note was 102 19/32, up 2/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.42 percent, from 4.43 percent on Tuesday. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INVENTORIES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (62%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); APPROVALS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (57%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (81%); CIENA CORP (81%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (66%); ELI LILLY & CO (61%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (58%); CHEVRON CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (81%); CIEN (NASDAQ) (81%); LLY (SWX) (61%); LLY (NYSE) (61%); LEL (LSE) (61%); HON (NYSE) (60%); HON (LSE) (60%); IACI (NASDAQ) (58%); CVX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (61%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (60%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



122 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Rules for Brazil in Sugar Dispute

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Brazil scored its second triumph in less than two months on Wednesday at the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the European Union's sugar subsidies give its farmers an unfair advantage on global export markets, Brazilian officials said on Wednesday. 
 Sugar is one of the European Union's most heavily subsidized crops, and the government supports have helped European sugar producers become the second-largest exporters in the world, behind Brazil, which is also the largest sugar producer.
 If the preliminary ruling is upheld by the W.T.O. in September, it could strengthen the hand of developing nations as they hammer out the details of a deal reached last weekend in Geneva, where the trade body's 147 members agreed to a negotiating framework to reduce farm subsidies in the rich nations by as much as 20 percent and cut import tariffs on everything from corn to soybeans.
 The decision could also trigger a fresh wave of complaints at the W.T.O., which had already ruled in favor of Brazil in late June in a landmark case against the billions of dollars in annual subsidies that the United States pays cotton farmers. 
 ''It's going to be very interesting to watch whether Brazil in particular is going to use its legal victories in cotton and now sugar to mount other cases,'' said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow and trade specialist at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, which describes itself as a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan research group devoted to the study of international economic policy supported by an annual budget of $7 million from charitable foundations, private corporations, and individuals.
 ''This is the really big question,'' Mr. Hufbauer, ''whether they're going to say, 'O.K., we've done enough and now it's time to negotiate,' or whether they say, 'Well, we're on a roll, so let's bring another case.'''
 The particulars of Monday's ruling were not disclosed, but Brazilian officials said the decision favored their claims on most counts. The complaint, which Brazil filed in August 2003 along with Australia and Thailand, argued that the almost $2 billion in annual export subsidies that the European Union pays its sugar farmers encourage overproduction and artificially depress international prices.
 The European Union sets quotas for sugar production for the European market, and farmers must export any surplus sugar at lower prices. In its complaint, Brazil accused the the European Union of exporting more subsidized sugar than is allowed under global trade agreements. Brussels has disputed that claim, insisting that Europe's practice of selling sugar bought from poor countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific basin should not be counted against permitted exports. The W.T.O. complaint brought by Brazil estimated that global sugar prices would rise almost 20 percent if Brussels scrapped its subsidies. Brazilian sugar producers claim they lose $500 million to $700 million in exports a year because of European subsidies.
 Though Brazilian officials declined to discuss the ruling in detail, they said they were gratified.
 ''We're very satisfied,'' Clodoaldo Hugueney, the under secretary for economic affairs at Brazil's foreign ministry, said by telephone from Brasilia. 
 ''This ruling, just like the cotton decision, confirms that there are immense distortions in international agricultural markets,'' Mr. Hugueney said. ''And it also confirms that serious negotiations need to take place to do away with farm subsidies, both for exports and domestic consumption.''
 In Brussels, Arancha Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for the European Union's trade commissioner, Pascal Lamy, said European officials would not comment on the decision, according to Reuters. Many trade experts expect the European Union to appeal the decision if it is upheld next month.
 The ruling came less than a month after the union's agriculture commissioner, Franz Fischler, proposed sweeping changes to Europe's 30-year-old sugar subsidy program. Under the proposal, which was met with criticism from Europe's 60,000 sugar beet farmers, Brussels would cut minimum price guarantees for producers by a third and cut production quotas to discourage dumping excess output on overseas markets.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers processing sugar in Seraozinho, Brazil, stand to benefit from a ruling against European subsidies. (Photo by Jean Pierre/Bloomberg News)(pg. W1)
 Sugar cane is harvested in Seraozinho, Brazil, part of the crop that makes Brazil the world's top producer. Brazilian growers say they lose $500 million to $700 million in exports because of European subsidies. (Photo by Jean Pierre/Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CHARITIES (77%); COTTON FARMING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Sugar; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market; Production

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: Todd Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) EUROPE (96%); BRAZIL (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (52%) Brazil; Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



123 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Kia Motors Names 7 Agencies in Review

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Kia Motors America in Irvine, Calif., part of the Hyundai Motor Company, has named six agencies to compete for its creative account along with the incumbent of five years, David and Goliath in Los Angeles. Spending was estimated at $260 million to $270 million. 
 Achenbaum Bogda Associates, the consultant managing the review, identified the six agencies as: Campbell Mithun in Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Cramer-Krasselt in Chicago; GSD&M in Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group; the Kaplan Thaler Group in New York, owned by the Publicis Groupe; Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, part of the Kirshenbaum Bond Creative Network division of MDC Partners; and Publicis & Hal Riney in San Francisco, also owned by Publicis.
 A decision by Kia is expected in early fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (88%) Advertising and Marketing; Account Changes

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); KIA MOTORS AMERICA INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (83%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (57%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Kia Motors Corp; Hyundai Motor Co; David & Goliath (Ad Agency)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (83%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (78%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



124 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Violence Flares Again in 2 Separatist Regions of Georgia

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Separatist tensions flared Wednesday in Georgia when new violence was reported in separatist South Ossetia, a day after Georgia's president threatened to sink ships approaching the country's other break-away region, Abkhazia.
 The threat by President Mikhail Saakashvili against ships in the Black Sea, including those ferrying Russian passengers, prompted pointed warnings from Russia. The defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, said Mr. Saakashvili's threat, if carried out, would amount to piracy. 
 In South Ossetia, gunfire erupted near Sarabuk, a village not far from the regional capital, Tskhinvali. A member of Russia's Parliament, Andrei A. Kokoshin, who was leading a Russian delegation in the region, told the Interfax news agency that his convoy ''came under intense fire,'' an incident certain to further roil relations between Russia and Georgia.
 Georgia denied that its forces were involved in any fighting in the region, which came only days after a heavy shelling and exchanges of gunfire around Tskhinvali last Thursday. A spokesman for the Georgian Interior Ministry, Guram Donadze, blamed militias in South Ossetia for the shooting, which was captured in television images by journalists traveling with the delegation.
 ''Our position is that this was a gross provocation on the part of the Ossetians,'' Mr. Donadze said in a telephone interview, though the Russian Foreign Ministry later blamed Georgian troops who, it said, had infiltrated the region.
 There were no immediate reports of casualties in the latest flare-ups, but the clashes, threats and counterthreats underscored growing tensions in and around Georgia as Mr. Saakashvili's new government continued its efforts to assert sovereignty over the two regions.
 Abkhazia and South Ossetia broke away from Georgia after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and now exist in an unrecognized state of independence. They both maintain close ethnic, social and economic ties to Russia. Many of Abkhazia's 250,000 residents and South Ossetia's 70,000 even have Russian passports, allowing them to cross Russia's southern frontier freely. Russia also has peacekeepers in both regions.
 Russia's involvement -- or, from Georgia's perspective, interference -- has soured Mr. Saakashvili's studied efforts to improve relations with President Vladimir V. Putin in the months since Mr. Saakashvili ousted Georgia's long-serving president, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, in a popular uprising last November.
 On Tuesday evening, before departing for a four-day visit to the United States, Mr. Saakashvili said at a news conference that he had ordered the coast guard to intercept ships entering Georgia's territorial waters without permission from the central government. He pointedly singled out ships ferrying Russian tourists, who regularly visit Abkhazia's lush coastal resorts, as privileged Soviet visitors once did.
 ''I want to make sure that the so-called Russian tourists hear this,'' Mr. Saakashvili said in televised remarks monitored by the BBC. Referring to the civil war that has left Abkhazia quasi-independent since 1993, he added, ''It is not a place for you to put out deck chairs, because it is stained by Georgian blood.''
 Mr. Saakashvili did not disclose when he had issued the order, but a Georgian patrol boat opened fire Saturday on a ship as it approached Abkhazia's capital and principal port, Sukhumi. The ship escaped into an Abkhazian port, and there were no reported injuries.
 At the same time, he emphasized that he did not seek a military conflict. But he did not address Russia's angry response. 
 Mr. Saakashvili met Wednesday in Washington with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and discussed the need for a peaceful resolution in South Ossetia, Defense Department officials said. Mr. Rumsfeld also thanked the Georgian for his republic's contributions in Iraq, where Georgia has deployed 161 soldiers. 
 Georgy Gomiashvili, Georgia's deputy foreign minister and spokesman, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday that Mr. Saakashvili intended to assert sovereignty over its territorial waters in an effort to stifle the flow of what he called illegal commerce, including Russian tourism, that sustains Abkhazia's breakaway government. He said the ship that was fired on appeared to be operating under a Turkish flag with Russian personnel. 
 Last month Georgia troops seized two Russian trucks carrying weapons into South Ossetia that Russia said were for its peacekeepers in the region, though Georgian officials feared they would end up in the hands of South Ossetia's militias.
 Mr. Gomiashvili reaffirmed Mr. Saakashvili's threat to use force against ships that enter Georgian territorial waters without permission. ''Of course, we will,'' Mr. Gomiashvili said when asked about firing on ships. "Who won't use force if their territorial waters are violated?"
 In May Mr. Saakashvili succeeded in driving out the leader of a third region, Ajaria, which had not broken away from Georgia but had also operated with de facto independence under its leader, Aslan Abashidze. Mr. Saakashvili's pledges to reunite Abkhazia and South Ossetia with Georgia have proved far more difficult to carry out.
 After the Georgian patrol boat fired on the ship last Saturday, Abkhazia broke off long-stalled peace talks overseen by the United Nations in Georgia. In a statement the United Nations mission called on both sides to avoid ''any further unilateral actions'' that could further inflame matters.
 The Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday that any action against Russian ships on the Black Sea would be considered ''a hostile act, with all the ensuing consequences.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Russian peacekeepers in South Ossetia. The military presence makes the Georgian government nervous. (Photo by Shakh Aivazov/Associated Press)Map of Georgia highlighting Tskhinvali: A Russian delegation said it was fired upon near Tskhinvali. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (79%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); RESORTS (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); SERGEI IVANOV (56%) Steven Lee Myers; Mikhail (Pres) Saakashvili

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Georgia (Georgian Republic); Abkhazia (Georgian Republic); South Ossetia (Georgian Republic); Russia; Georgia (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



125 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Chords for Change

BYLINE: By Bruce Springsteen. 
Bruce Springsteen is a writer and performer.

 BODY:
A nation's artists and musicians have a particular place in its social and political life. Over the years I've tried to think long and hard about what it means to be American: about the distinctive identity and position we have in the world, and how that position is best carried. I've tried to write songs that speak to our pride and criticize our failures. 
 These questions are at the heart of this election: who we are, what we stand for, why we fight. Personally, for the last 25 years I have always stayed one step away from partisan politics. Instead, I have been partisan about a set of ideals: economic justice, civil rights, a humane foreign policy, freedom and a decent life for all of our citizens. This year, however, for many of us the stakes have risen too high to sit this election out.
 Through my work, I've always tried to ask hard questions. Why is it that the wealthiest nation in the world finds it so hard to keep its promise and faith with its weakest citizens? Why do we continue to find it so difficult to see beyond the veil of race? How do we conduct ourselves during difficult times without killing the things we hold dear? Why does the fulfillment of our promise as a people always seem to be just within grasp yet forever out of reach?
 I don't think John Kerry and John Edwards have all the answers. I do believe they are sincerely interested in asking the right questions and working their way toward honest solutions. They understand that we need an administration that places a priority on fairness, curiosity, openness, humility, concern for all America's citizens, courage and faith.
 People have different notions of these values, and they live them out in different ways. I've tried to sing about some of them in my songs. But I have my own ideas about what they mean, too. That is why I plan to join with many fellow artists, including the Dave Matthews Band, Pearl Jam, R.E.M., the Dixie Chicks, Jurassic 5, James Taylor and Jackson Browne, in touring the country this October. We will be performing under the umbrella of a new group called Vote for Change. Our goal is to change the direction of the government and change the current administration come November.
 Like many others, in the aftermath of 9/11, I felt the country's unity. I don't remember anything quite like it. I supported the decision to enter Afghanistan and I hoped that the seriousness of the times would bring forth strength, humility and wisdom in our leaders. Instead, we dived headlong into an unnecessary war in Iraq, offering up the lives of our young men and women under circumstances that are now discredited. We ran record deficits, while simultaneously cutting and squeezing services like afterschool programs. We granted tax cuts to the richest 1 percent (corporate bigwigs, well-to-do guitar players), increasing the division of wealth that threatens to destroy our social contract with one another and render mute the promise of ''one nation indivisible.''
 It is through the truthful exercising of the best of human qualities -- respect for others, honesty about ourselves, faith in our ideals -- that we come to life in God's eyes. It is how our soul, as a nation and as individuals, is revealed. Our American government has strayed too far from American values. It is time to move forward. The country we carry in our hearts is waiting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MUSIC (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); SONG WRITING (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (61%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Music; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Vote for Change (Orgn)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (56%) Bruce Springsteen; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



126 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON THE TRAIL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: In Midwest City, Bush and Kerry Cross Paths, and Swords

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: DAVENPORT, Iowa, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
There are battleground states, and there are swing counties.
 And then there was Wednesday's political equivalent of hand-to-hand combat, as President Bush and Senator John Kerry came nearly within shouting distance of each other in this small city rich with independent-minded voters, which seemed not all that surprised by the attention.
 The dueling campaign events gave humid Davenport the feel of a crisp day in late October, while apparently giving ne'er-do-wells the idea that the police would be overtaxed: there were three bank robberies within an hour. Motorcades wrapped around streets, paralyzing traffic and all but bumping into each other.
 While Mr. Bush delivered his stump speech under gray, muggy skies in LeClaire Park, along the banks of the Mississippi, Mr. Kerry presided over an ''economic summit'' just four blocks away at the River Center exhibition hall. 
 ''The other folks talk a good game -- we deliver,'' said Mr. Bush, who lost Iowa and its seven electoral votes to Al Gore by three-tenths of a percentage point four years ago. He predicted that he would win in November, because, he said, he has improved the economy and made the nation safer.
 ''We were close in Iowa last time,'' Mr. Bush told a crowd of several thousand. ''Not this time. We're going to carry it.''
 Mr. Kerry, for his part, relished the idea of talking about how to create jobs while Mr. Bush was so close by, fighting to preserve his own.
 ''I don't know how many of you know President Bush is just a few blocks from here,'' he said to an invited audience of a few hundred supporters. Mocking the president's stump-speech line that the nation had turned the corner, he added, ''It occurred to me that he could come here for a great discussion about America's future if he were really willing to just turn the corner.''
 While Mr. Kerry mentioned Mr. Bush by name, Mr. Bush never once so mentioned Mr. Kerry, and at first ignored shouted questions from reporters wanting to know how he felt to have his competitor down the street. Finally, when a reporter asked Mr. Bush during a stop at a farmers' market what Mr. Kerry was doing in Davenport, Mr. Bush curtly replied, ''Ask him,'' then continued eating a raw ear of corn.
 That Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush are both eager to win over people in Davenport is no surprise. There are nearly 27,000 Republicans here in Scott County, to 24,000 Democrats. But almost 42,000 voters are unaffiliated with either party, and the county has increasingly leaned Democratic,
 The area has been hit hard economically, Democrats say, with an unemployment rate of 4.2 percent -- still well below the national average -- compared with 2.4 percent four years ago.
 It has also been directly affected by war. Four National Guard units from the area have been deployed to Iraq, and two soldiers from the county were among the 26 injured, in addition to 16 killed, when a helicopter was shot down in November.
 On Wednesday each candidate attacked the other over Iraq, with Mr. Bush, as he has for weeks, ridiculing Mr. Kerry for voting last fall against a bill providing money for military operations and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan after having supported authorization of the use of force in Iraq a year earlier.
 ''Here's how my opponent tried to explain his vote,'' Mr. Bush declared. ''He said, 'I actually did vote for the $87 billion, before I voted against it.' Then he went on to say that he was proud that he and his running mate voted against it, and he further said, 'The whole thing is a complicated matter.'
 ''There is nothing complicated about supporting our troops in combat.''
 Mr. Kerry, meanwhile, depicted Mr. Bush as a colossal failure at diplomacy. ''Statesmanship means something,'' he said. ''I believe, and I think most observers will tell you, it will take a new president of the United States, with new credibility, to have a fresh start for our country to restore America's credibility.''
 Just who was shadowing whom was not quite clear, though each campaign accused the other of following it around the country. The mayor of Davenport, Charlie Brooke, a Republican, said city officials heard from the Bush campaign early last week that the president would be dropping by, and only later from the Kerry campaign. But Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's spokeswoman, said that the Kerry advance team was in town on July 19 to book the site for the forum and that ''we have hotel invoices to prove it.''
 David Morehouse, a senior Kerry adviser, accused the Bush-Cheney campaign of ''trying to come right in our news cycle,'' adding: ''You normally do that when you're not having that great of an impact on your visits and want to blunt the effect of your opponent's. And you normally do it in October.''
 There were dueling crowd counts as well. Ms. Cutter told reporters that Mr. Bush's campaign had predicted a crowd of 10,000 for him and had drawn only 3,000, while Bush aides put the president's audience at 13,000.
 At times it seemed Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry could almost hear each other. Mr. Bush, deriding the choice of Senator John Edwards as running mate, said Mr. Kerry had no credibility in pushing tort reform.
 ''You cannot be pro-patient, pro-doctor and pro-trial lawyer at the same time,'' the president said.
 But Mr. Kerry said he and Mr. Edwards were best equipped to cut down on frivolous civil litigation while protecting patients' rights.
 As ever, Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry both flattered their listeners, Mr. Kerry likening Iowa to heaven and recalling that it had been the start of his catapulting to the Democratic nomination, and Mr. Bush calling the Quad Cities area ''the heart and soul of the country.''
 ''We have a little difference of opinion of the heart and soul,'' Mr. Bush said, alluding to Mr. Kerry's description of Hollywood celebrities who made off-color jokes in denouncing the president at a fund-raiser last month. ''Some of them think you can find it in Hollywood. I think you find it right here in Davenport, Iowa.''
 The Kerry forum involved a panel of national and local business leaders, including top executives of the Bank of America, the Oracle Corporation and the News Corporation, who were convened to sing the senator's praises and accuse Mr. Bush of making the world too unsafe and unstable for American companies to invest overseas, saddling the nation with debt and failing to rein in soaring health care costs.
 Over the course of 1 hour 50 minutes, Mr. Kerry let all the 11 panelists introduce themselves and say a few words, but he fielded every question himself, in the kind of fluid policy-wonk display that his aides say provides a stark contrast to Mr. Bush but that can nonetheless tax some audiences' attention span.
 ''I get excited about the possibility of being president, sitting around here listening to this, because this really represents the kind of president I would like to be,'' he said. ''Who brings people together, I don't care what the party labels are, to sit down at a table like this -- all across the country, we could and should be doing this, to talk about how we're going to partner. I don't pretend I've got every solution.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Duel in Davenport''President Bush and John Kerry both campaigned yesterday in Davenport, Iowa. In 2000, Mr. Bush lost Scott County, which includes Davenport, by 4.3 percentage points, with 46.5 percent of the vote.(Source by City of Davenport Community and Economic Development Department)Map of Iowa highlighting the location of the Kerry event site and the Bush rally site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BANK ROBBERY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ROBBERY (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); AL GORE (58%) David M Halbfinger; Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (97%) IOWA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Davenport (Iowa)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



127 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Using Trade Pacts to Stem Loss of TV and Film Jobs to Canada

BYLINE: By ANDREA R. VAUCHER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Out-of-work film technicians those actors, prop men and other entertainment industry workers whose names unfurl on the screen as moviegoers scramble out of the theater -- are rallying behind international trade rules to stem the flow of film and television production to Canada. 
 With the Teamsters leading the fight, the Film and Television Action Committee, a grass-roots organization started by an unemployed production designer in 1998 specifically to fight ''runaway production,'' has sent 20 pages of comments to the new Unfair Trade Practices Task Force of the Commerce Department and demanded that the Bush administration take action against Canadian film subsidy programs, which have lured United States filmmakers north of the border and siphoned tens of thousands of jobs out of the country. 
 Using $100,000 donated by Teamsters locals, the action committee hired Stewart & Stewart, a leading Washington law firm specializing in international trade issues. A former assistant secretary of commerce under President George H.W. Bush, Alan M. Dunn, now a partner in the firm, drafted a 20-page filing asserting that the subsidy programs violate obligations made to the United States under the World Trade Organization agreement on government subsidies. 
 The Commerce Department task force, created in May, tries to identify unfair trade practices and alleviate them before a formal petition is filed with the Commerce Department.
 Australia is named in the action committee's filing, but the main target is Canada, where tax credits, which can climb to nearly 50 percent of the labor costs of a production, have persuaded United States studios to shoot films like the Oscar-winning ''Chicago'' in Toronto and to go to Montreal to make ''Rudy!,'' a television movie about Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor..
 According to the 2002-3 activity report of the Canadian Audio-Visual Certification Office, 95 percent of productions qualifying for certification for tax credits have copyright holders originating in the United States. 
 ''These Canadian content subsidies were to stimulate the indigenous Canadian film business,'' Brent Swift, founder of the action committee, said. In 1999 Mr. Swift, a member of the Hollywood Art Directors Guild, formed the action committee after seeing a correlation between steep industry layoffs and the start of the Canadian subsidy programs.
 ''Immediately it was apparent they were enticing foreign companies, who create shell companies to generate a Canadian product that magically becomes an American product when it crosses the border,'' Mr. Swift said.
 This is exactly the point made by supporters of the subsidies. They contend that the real windfall comes from distribution rights to these productions made outside the United States, and those are ultimately reassigned to United States distribution entities.
 ''Are we really concerned where something is made or where the money comes home to?'' asked Marla Ginsburg, president of Waterwalk Productions, a Los Angeles-based television production company. In the 1990's she was an executive producer of ''Highlander'' under Canadian content subsidies and shot this French-Canadian series in Vancouver, Toronto and Paris. It was distributed internationally by a United States company, Rysher Entertainment. 
 For a long time the action committee was a fringe organization, viewed askance by groups like the Directors Guild of America and the Motion Picture Association of America, which lobbies in Washington for Hollywood studios.
 ''We've been called everything from crazy to Communists,'' Mr. Swift said.
 But the tide has begun to shift. The International Cinematographers Guild, one of the largest and most influential entertainment industry unions, recently reversed its stance and sent a letter to the Commerce Department commending it for its willingness to look into runaway production. 
 The Motion Picture Association, however, says this is not the arena in which to argue the issue. 
 ''There are over 30 states in the U.S. that have film incentives themselves, so if you declare Canadian film subsidies illegal, then by extension American film subsidies are illegal,'' said Bonnie Richardson, the association's vice president for trade and federal affairs.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Swift said he hoped that with the cinematographers on board, other industry alliances would follow and would be as financially helpful as the Teamsters. His action committee is working with people in several unions, including the Screen Actors Guild, to get them to join the fight. The soundmen recently donated money, and the plasterers voted to pay extra dues earmarked for the fight. 
 ''Everything we're getting is coming from the ground floor up,'' Mr. Swift said, and will go toward the next costly legal go-round: a petition under United States trade laws alleging that the Canadian subsidies violate existing accords like the North American Free Trade Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
 ''It's a big undertaking,'' Mr. Dunn said of the committee's effort. He was the lead United States negotiator with Mexico and Canada on subsidies and antidumping rules leading up to the Nafta signing in 1992. He added, ''You're trying to convince a lot of parts of the U.S. government to review these issues, and then if Canada disagrees, you've got to go before a W.T.O. dispute settlement panel.''
 In a separate case, Joel Joseph, a Bethesda, Md., litigator, sent a letter to the minister for Canadian heritage on June 15 notifying her of his intent to file a Nafta claim on behalf of a small New York-based animation production company, Contractual Obligation Productions. Mr. Joseph contends that his client was forced off an animated series it created for the cable television channel AMC because the United States citizenship of the company's partners kept AMC from receiving Canadian subsidy money. He said the subsidies led to expropriation of the property.
 A spokeswoman for AMC said the allegations were without merit. Jenny Chen, a spokeswoman for International Trade Canada, said: ''Canada offers a favorable exchange rate, lower costs for many goods and services, as well as access to highly skilled crews and excellent locations. The purpose of the tax credit in question is to encourage the use of Canadian labor in these sectors. This is entirely consistent with Canada's international trade obligations.'' 
 Groups like the Motion Picture Association, the American Film Marketing Association and the Directors Guild of America have maintained that tinkering with Canadian subsidies will backfire and lead to a further loss of jobs or even trade wars. Instead, they have lobbied legislators for a national film incentive in the United States that would make it advantageous for studios and production companies to shoot at home. 
 ''We export far more to Canada than we import from them,'' Ms. Richardson said. ''Unilateral approaches to trade policy are definitely not a good idea, especially in this sector.''
 Both sides agree that the American economy would be bolstered by the over $10 billion a year it loses to runaway production, not only from direct production spending but also from related services and tax revenue. 
 ''Outsourcing is a very short term goal,'' Mr. Swift said. ''You pay someone in China to make something that sells for 25 cents when you bring it back here, and pretty soon people don't have the 25 cents to buy it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brent Swift, a film technician, in front of Warner Brothers, which is to film a ''Superman'' in Australia. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX LAW (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PETITIONS (67%); COPYRIGHT (61%) Motion Pictures; Labor; Television; International Trade and World Market; Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (85%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) World Trade Organization; Commerce Department; Stewart & Stewart; Teamsters; Film and Television Action Committee (Orgn) 

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (71%); RUDY GIULIANI (54%) Andrea R Vaucher

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); QUEBEC, CANADA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); AUSTRALIA (91%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



128 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Debate in Australia

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
In 1992, President Bush, the father, offered Australia a free trade pact. Prime Minister Paul Keating, a Labor Party leader, rejected the offer.
 On Tuesday, President Bush, the son, signed a free trade pact with Australia, saying at a White House ceremony: ''The United States and Australia have never been closer.'' On Wednesday, Mark Latham, the Labor Party's current leader, vowed to block Australian Senate approval of the pact, threatening: ''I'm not interested in political compromise.''
 This may look like a free-trade version of the film ''50 First Dates,'' but Australia and America are not acting out a rerun of a frustrated courtship. 
 With parliamentary elections expected this fall, Australia's Labor Party, now in opposition, is trying to sell itself as the best party to carry out the free trade pact, which is to go into effect Jan. 1. With an eye to the polls and to his left-wing base, Mr. Latham is demanding two amendments.
 ''Despite several flaws in the agreement, it has net economic benefits for Australia, and on this basis, should be supported,'' Mr. Latham said on Tuesday, giving his overall approval to the 1,100-page document.
 In recent years, Australia has shifted from the provincial and inward-looking nation of ''Crocodile Dundee'' movies to the globally competitive nation of the Sydney 2000 Olympics.
 Over the last two decades, Australia's exports have doubled. Today, one in five jobs and 20 percent of the economy depend on exports.
 To expand overseas markets, Australia is the most aggressive negotiator of free trade agreements in the Asia Pacific region. Last year, Australia signed a free trade pact with Singapore. Last month, it signed one with Thailand. Last week, it started work on a pact with Malaysia. Next November, Australia is to start talks on a trade pact with the Association of South East Asian Nations. Next March, Chinese and Australian officials are to complete a preliminary study on a bilateral trade agreement. With Australia's trade with China jumping by about 50 percent in the first four months of the year, China is expected to become Australia's biggest export market in five years.
 In this setting, a trade pact with the United States not only opens markets, but also provides balance to Australia's growing economic dependence on Asia. Last fall, Prime Minister John Howard, a liberal, jumped at the opportunity to win a free trade agreement with the United States. 
 With both countries seeing the agreement partly as a political payoff for Australia's military participation in Iraq, the accord won easy approval last month in the United States Congress. It is the first free trade agreement between the United States and an industrialized nation since the deal was struck with Canada, 15 years ago. With Australian tariffs on 99 percent of American manufactured goods to drop to zero on Jan. 1, American economists calculate that the deal will increase American exports to Australia by $1.5 billion.
 In Australia, the pact has won the general support of most major business organizations, most major newspapers and the Labor premiers of the major states.
 ''We are being invited into the tent of the biggest, most dynamic leading-edge economy of the first half of the 21st century,'' Terry McCrann, a business columnist wrote last weekend in The Australian, a conservative newspaper. ''We'd be nuts to invite ourselves out. There are about 115 countries behind us in the queue.''
 Stephen Loosely, a columnist in The Sunday Telegraph, noted that an Australia-Japan trade treaty signed almost half a century ago helped Japan become Australia's largest trading partner. In the two decades since a low tariff pact went into effect between Australia and New Zealand, bilateral trade had jumped almost sevenfold. Other studies note that during the first 10 years of the North American Free Trade Agreement, trade doubled among Canada, Mexico and the United States.
 Such indicators are useful as Australian economists have done a poor job forecasting benefits of the America-Australia pact. The two most widely cited studies came up with results that differ sharply. An Australia National University study projected an annual benefit to Australia of about $43 million. Another study, by the Center for International Economics, projected a $4 billion annual lift to Australia's economy.
 ''The thing about a dynamic economy is you don't know where it is going to go,'' said Greg Lindsay, executive director of the Center for Independent Studies, a private, conservative research group.
 Some benefits are clear: an end to a 25 percent duty on sport utility vehicles made in Australia, allowing Australian companies to compete for procurement contracts with the federal government and many state governments.
 ''The real benefit is a longer term, almost cultural change -- intensifying a trend to U.S. business reference points, such as human resource management, I.T. systems, and the lifting of red tape,'' said Alan Oxley, director of the Australian Business Coalition for the F.T.A., a lobbying group. ''It underlines Australia as a friendlier, easier destination. This tells American investors that this business environment is pretty close to your own.''
 Opponents say the pact does not live up to its fair trade billing. American farmers and ranchers blocked any opening of the American market to Australian sugar and limited increases in Australian beef exports to 18 percent over 18 years.
 ''Out of every 100 hamburgers, 3 come from Australia,'' Peter Corish, president of the National Farmers Federation, said. ''Improvements in access will only add one hamburger, and that is in year 18.''
 But noting increased access for vegetables, fruits and dairy products, he said: ''While we are disappointed with the outcome, and believe it could have been better, it does bring significant benefits to sectors of Australian agriculture.''
 To mollify Australia's 6,500 sugar cane growers, the government has agreed to spend $311 million to help growers shift to different crops or land uses.
 The two amendments advocated by the Labor Party revolve around cultural property and generic drugs. Australia, like Canada, limits the amount of foreign programs on television and foreign music on radio. The goal is to preserve national accents, faces and views in the electronic media.
 Cate Blanchett and Toni Collette, two of Australia's most successful actresses, flew here from California to urge Australians to reject the free trade treaty. In face of this onslaught, Prime Minister Howard promised Tuesday to enshrine existing national content quotas in the trade pacts enabling legislation.
 Taking aim at the attempt to revive Australian filmmaking through protectionism, David Tester, a newspaper reader, wrote last week to The Sydney Morning Herald: ''Maybe all the Australian talent went to Hollywood. Now they only fly back first-class to warn us of the American peril.''
 Mr. Howard has balked over Labor's demand for an amendment to penalize drug companies that file spurious patent claims in order to postpone the adoption of generic drugs. He maintains that the amendment is unnecessary and redundant and he says the pact will not result in higher prices for drugs sold through a government-controlled system.
 Judging by readers' letters published in Australian newspapers, much opposition stems from suspicion of the United States, an economic giant that already enjoys a healthy trade surplus with Australia. With two-way trade last year at $28 billion, the United States sold to Australia about twice as much as it imported.
 ''Critics have been quiet on the F.T.A.'s with Singapore and Thailand because neither of those countries has an economy capable of swallowing Australia whole,'' James Mason, wrote The Australian from Redfern, a poor Sydney neighborhood. ''Australia has an economy comparable to that of a medium-size U.S. state.''
 Jason Lyddieth, a Sydney resident wrote The Sydney Morning Herald: ''I hope the politicians make sure the Americans put a new star on their flag. From now, Australia will be nothing more than a colony of the U.S.''
 On Tuesday, similar nationalist denunciations echoed through a Labor Party parliamentary caucus on the economic pact with the United States. Emerging from the meeting in Canberra, Mr. Latham vowed defiantly about the enabling legislation: ''We're going to fight like Kilkenny cats to ensure those amendments go through.''
 But when asked by a reporter about what is officially called the Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement, he added, almost as a footnote: ''There's a text of the F.T.A. That is not in dispute. We're supporting that.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Aug. 5 about the proposed free trade agreement between Australia and the United States misspelled the surname of a columnist at The Sunday Telegraph who described the benefits of trade deals. He is Stephen Loosley, not Loosely.
 The article also referred incorrectly to the circumstances under which the actresses Cate Blanchett and Toni Collette argued against the trade pact. They did not fly to Australia specifically to register opposition; they were in the country for professional engagements. A journalist in Australia reported the errors; this correction was delayed by an editing lapse.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A ship unloads cargo in Sydney, Australia. With Australian tariffs on 99 percent of American goods to drop to zero on Jan. 1, economists say that a pact will increase U.S. exports to Australia by $1.5 billion. (Photo by Michael Caronna/Bloomberg News)
President Bush signed the free trade pact with Australia, saying, ''The United States and Australia have never been closer.'' (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)(pg. W1)
 Mark Latham, the Labor Party leader, vowed to block Australian Senate approval of the pact. (Photo by Tim Wimborne/Reuters)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) International Trade and World Market; Treaties; Law and Legislation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN HOWARD (58%) James Brooke; George W (Pres) Bush; Mark Latham

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



129 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

9/11 Panel Chairman Urges 'Vote' on Report
Thomas H. Kean, the chairman of the Sept. 11 commission, said voters should weigh how President Bush and Senator John Kerry respond to the panel's final report in determining how they vote on Election Day. Mr. Kean's comments carried an implicit warning to Mr. Bush, who has already rejected specific recommendations in the report. PAGE A13

Prospects for Gay Marriage
Missouri's landslide vote to bar gay marriage with a constitutional amendment suggests what may lie ahead in 12 other states expected to vote on similar measures. PAGE A16

Fed Expected to Raise Rates
When Federal Reserve policy makers meet next Tuesday, they are expected to continue their strategy of gradually raising interest rates. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Ancient Bird Was Built to Fly
Scientists say that a brain fossil of Archaeopteryx, the earliest known bird, shows it could fly, suggesting that birds began flying much earlier than previously thought. PAGE A3

A Coach's Digital Strategy
Their Own Devices, a new feature about technology's impact on leaders in many fields, looks at Brian Billick, the coach of pro football's Baltimore Ravens. CIRCUITS, PAGE G1

F.A.A. Tries to Reduce Delays At O'Hare and Elsewhere
Dozens of executives from 15 airlines that fly into O'Hare International Airport met with officials from the Federal Aviation Administration in Washington, who asked them to cut their flight schedules by about 5 percent to reduce delays that ripple from Chicago through the whole country. PAGE A14


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Lauren Burke/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); BIRDS (73%); MARRIAGE (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CIVIL AVIATION (66%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (66%); SPORTS (66%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE RAVENS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



130 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE PLOTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2015 words

HEADLINE: Qaeda Strategy Is Called Cause For New Alarm

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and BENJAMIN WEISER; Eric Lipton reported from Washington, and Benjamin Weiser from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
They scouted the streets. They took photographs. They wrote detailed surveillance reports. And then, after five years of patiently waiting, Al Qaeda operatives carried out the devastating suicide truck bombing at the American Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, in August 1998, killing more than 200 people and injuring thousands.
 This meticulous approach to terrorism -- studying targets and fine-tuning strategies for years before an attack -- is in part why officials in Washington say they are so alarmed about the latest evidence of reconnaissance of financial centers in New York, New Jersey and Washington, even though much of the information dates back to the days before Sept. 11, 2001. 
 The same studied technique has been central to the most well-known Qaeda attacks, be they in Africa or the United States. Plots that were carried out and failed, and even plots that were considered but abandoned, like a possible attack on the Brooklyn Bridge last year, each demonstrate this same obsession. It is Al Qaeda's hallmark. 
 ''Al Qaeda will wait years to act and decades to succeed,'' Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the federal prosecutor who has been investigating Osama bin Laden for about a decade, told the 9/11 commission this summer. 
 Investigators also know that even after extensively considering and then dismissing a possible target, the terrorists have simply switched their focus to another location, which may explain the intense precautions imposed around the Capitol this week, even though it is not publicly known whether it was among the buildings that were subjected to surveillance.
 It is an appreciation of this modus operandi, which is evident in an examination of a decade's worth of plotting and action by Al Qaeda, that has so complicated the decision on how to respond appropriately to evidence that might be dated. Old information is not necessarily bad information. It might just be a hint of a plot that in a somewhat revised form was close to being carried out. 
 ''The dry runs, the surveillance, the documentation, also going to the trouble of putting this information on computers and on disks, it shows the degree of thoroughness,'' said Neil Herman, a former supervisor of the F.B.I.'s Joint Terrorist Task Force in New York. ''And by being as thorough as possible, ultimately they have been successful.''
 Federal authorities have not made public the recently discovered surveillance reports of financial institutions, which they say were found in Pakistan; and one F.B.I. official cautioned on Wednesday that the authorities are not even certain that the surveillance reports themselves represent an active plot.
 But officials said this week that a second strand of intelligence indicating the possibility of a terrorist attack in New York made the situation urgent, given Al Qaeda's track record of long-term surveillance and planning, and promoted the elevation of the terrorism alert.
 Moreover, the descriptions officials have offered of the surveillance reports -- that they were devoted to individual targets, ran about 20 pages, were found on computer discs, and included a stunning level of detail -- seem eerily reminiscent of instructions in a Qaeda training manual that was seized by the authorities in the home of one Qaeda operative in Manchester, England. 
 ''Winning the battle is dependent on knowing the enemy's secrets,'' the manual declares in sections devoted to espionage and ''information gathering'' using open and covert methods.
 The manual describes in great detail the sort of information that is to be collected while monitoring a target: traffic directions, street widths, location of signals and pedestrian areas, times of traffic congestion, proximity of public parks, and the amount and location of lighting. ''The brother should draw a diagram of the area,'' the manual adds. ''The drawing should be realistic so that someone who never saw the location could visualize it.''
 Al Qaeda's painstaking preparations for attacks first emerged publicly after the 1998 embassy bombings in East Africa. As early as 1993, the investigation found, Mr. bin Laden sent a trusted aide to Nairobi to conduct surveillance on American, British, French and Israeli targets. 
 The aide, Ali A. Mohamed, an Egyptian with American citizenship, was an all-purpose operative for Mr. bin Laden, court testimony and investigative records show. He spoke English, traveled freely around the world, and assisted with Mr. bin Laden's security. A veteran of the Egyptian and American armies, Mr. Mohamed also trained Qaeda operatives in surveillance and intelligence collection techniques, even how to take photographs without holding a camera up to one's eyes, one of his former students, a Qaeda member who later became a government witness, has testified.
 The former Qaeda member, L'Houssaine Kherchtou, recalled that there were trial runs in Peshawar, Pakistan, to practice their surveillance. ''We started with small things,'' Mr. Kherchtou said, ''like bridge, like stadium, like normal places in which nobody is, and then in the second stage, we went to police stations, for example, and in my group, we were trained to go to Iranian consulate and Iranian cultural center.''
 No details were to be spared, he added. If they were to learn about a specific room, they were to scout ''the walls, the colors, how big are the walls and which color are they, and how high they are, the lights, the doors, the floor, everything that you can see, all information about that room.'' 
 Operatives were trained to file detailed surveillance reports on computer, and to ''put them in a disc so as to be easy to carry,'' Mr. Kherchtou said.
 The embassy plot in Nairobi began in late 1993 with a consideration of a variety of possible targets: the American Embassy, the United States agricultural office, as well as the French Embassy and cultural center, all of which Mr. Mohamed cased.
 ''I took pictures, drew diagrams, and wrote a report,'' Mr. Mohamed said in court when he pleaded guilty to conspiracy in 2000. This trove of surveillance reports and photographs were then presented directly to Mr. bin Laden back in Khartoum. 
 ''Bin Laden looked at the picture of the American Embassy and pointed to where a truck could go as a suicide bomber,'' Mr. Mohamed said.
 The Nairobi investigation also showed that surveillance and the selection of targets are just the initial phases in a Qaeda plot, and that other operatives, acting perhaps months or years later, will then execute the attack. Such tactics are one reason why investigators were so alarmed by the discovery of the surveillance reports of financial institutions, even though they were three or four years old. Such evidence could suggest Al Qaeda is just that much further down the line to launching an attack.
 ''There is a point were they have done surveillance, developed the plot, and have logistics support in place,'' an F.B.I. official said on Wednesday. 
 Such attention to detail, the willingness to wait for the opportune moment to attack, and the capacity to revise strategies if necessary, has been illustrated in other Qaeda operations. The preparations for the Sept. 11 attacks have been well documented, such as the hijackers' use of small rented aircraft to conduct pre-strike reconnaissance flights near the Pentagon and their cross-country surveillance flights to determine such things as the best time to storm the cockpit.
 But the pattern extends far beyond these most spectacular incidents. A failed plot in 1995, hatched in the Philippines, to bomb 12 United States commercial jets as they flew over the Pacific unraveled only after extensive planning and even trial runs. One of the conspirators in the plot -- nicknamed Bojinka -- was Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who later helped to mastermind the Sept. 11 attacks, investigators have said.
 The conspirators in the Bojinka plot did the same careful planning, including casing flights from the Philippines to Hong Kong and Seoul. The prime orchestrator of the plot was Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who also led the 1993 bombing on the World Trade Center. 
 The conspirators went to the extreme of testing a bomb at a Manila movie theater in December 1994, and later on a Philippine Airlines flight, all as part of preparation for the main offensive, which was set to take place in January 1995. The conspirators even tried dousing toy dolls with a home-made explosive that they were considering smuggling onto the planes. The plan was foiled when neighbors noticed smoke emanating from the Manila apartment where they lived -- they were burning chemicals to make the ingredients for the bombs -- and a security guard noticed Mr. Yousef running down the stairs carrying his shoes, records from Mr. Yousef's trial say.
 Even though the large-scale jetliner attack over the Pacific never happened, it is clear that the elaborate planning was an unappreciated warning of the sophistication and determination of the terrorists.
 ''It showed the government back in the mid-1990's how detail-oriented these individuals were,'' said Mr. Herman, the former F.B.I. official, who was involved in the Bojinka investigation. ''It also showed that there was an active network, although, of course, we were unable to determine the extent of the network back then.''
 The bombing of the Navy destroyer Cole in October 2000 followed four years of contemplation and plotting. The conception came in 1996 when a Qaeda member, during a visit to his home in Yemen, noticed that American and other foreign ships frequented the waters on the coast of Yemen, according to the 9/ 11 commission report. The formal planning began in late 1998, with operatives being sent to Yemen to scout for ships that could be possible targets. 
 When they failed to find United States Navy ships on the western coast of Yemen, Mr. bin Laden reportedly redirected them to the southern shore, the commission report says. In January 2000, a guided missile destroyer, The Sullivans, was identified and a Qaeda boat went out for the attack. But the Qaeda boat sank under its own weight before it could strike the ship.
 The authorities did not detect the failed assault on The Sullivans, and the terrorists were able to regroup, salvage the explosives and strengthen the hull of the boat to attack the Cole ten months later, killing 17 and injuring at least 40. 
 Such persistence, even if a first effort fails as in Yemen, does not mean that Al Qaeda pursues every plot to its destructive end.
 Al Qaeda's planning to bomb the Brooklyn Bridge started in the spring of 2002, according to a federal court statement signed by Iyman Faris, a Pakistan native who pleaded guilty last year to the conspiracy. (Mr. Faris, who has since been sentenced in the attack, has tried to rescind his guilty plea).
 Mr. Faris, who worked as a truck driver after immigrating to the United States in 1994, had met Mr. bin Laden at a Qaeda training camp in Afghanistan in 2000, court records show. After he was asked to pursue a strike against the bridge, he spent nearly a year researching the kinds of gas torches that might be used to try to cut the bridge's suspension cables, and he traveled from his home in Ohio to examine the span.
 It was only after inspecting the bridge -- whose main cables are more than 15 inches in diameter and contain 19 individual strands, each of which contains 280 separate wires -- that he reported back to his Qaeda contact that ''the weather is too hot,'' a coded signal to indicate that the plot was not likely to succeed.Now, with investigators having recovered the extensive surveillance reports on financial centers in New York and elsewhere, a critical question remains: is Al Qaeda still pursuing a plot, has it revised it, or abandoned it?
 ''If you are looking for fingerprints, that is one,'' an American intelligence official said on Wednesday, of the detailed surveillance. ''It is completely consistent with they way they operate. It is one of the things you look for, not the only, not decisive, but it is one.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Hasan Jamali/Associated Press)
(Photo by Agence France-Presse)
(Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A12)Chart: ''Looking Back''The extensive planning behind a sampling of terrorist plots.The Navy destroyer Cole1996Abd al Rahim al Nashiri considers a terrorist attack after noticing many U.S. ships off Yemen.Late 1998Mr. Nashiri proposes the attack to Osama bin Laden.Mid 1999Jamal Ahmed Mohammed Ali Al-Badawi procures safe houses in Aden.Oct. 12, 2000The Cole attacked
17 killed and at least 40 injured.U.S. Embassy in NairobiEarly 1990'sQaeda operatives gradually move into Nairobi.Late 1993Operatives go to Nairobi and conduct surveillance of the U.S. Embassy and other targets.LaterMr. bin Laden is shown written plans and photographs of the embassy. He instructs where to strike.Aug. 7, 1998A suicide truck bomber attacks the embassy, killing more than 200.Manila hijacking plotLate 1994Ramzi Yousef acquires components for bombs
begins surveillance of aircraft.In plotting the bombing of 12 planes, conspirators take trial runs on flights to Hong Kong and Seoul, South Korea.Mr. Yousef meets Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in the Philippines to plan the attack.A test bomb, on Philippine Airlines Flight 434, kills one passenger.Feb. 7, 1995Mr. Yousef is arrested in Pakistan.Brooklyn BridgeEarly 2002Qaeda leaders ask Iyman Faris to help in a plot to destroy a New York City bridge.Late 2002Mr. Faris returns to U.S., researches gas cutters and information on bridges.Mr. Faris examines the Brooklyn Bridge and concludes it is too sturdy to destroy by severing cables.Early 2003Al Qaeda aborts the plan. Mr. Faris is arrested in Ohio.(Sources by Court papers
 9/11 commission)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%) Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Brooklyn Bridge (NYC); Capitol (Washington, DC); Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Citigroup Center (NYC); Prudential Building (Newark, NJ); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); US NAVY (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); United States Foreign Service; New York Stock Exchange; International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%) Eric Lipton; Benjamin Weiser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (59%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) KENYA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); YEMEN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); AFRICA (78%) Nairobi (Kenya); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



131 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: U.S. OPENS EFFORT TO DISRUPT PLOTS BY TERROR GROUP

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DOUGLAS JEHL; Patrick E. Tyler reported from London for this article and Jim Rutenberg from Lee's Summit, Mo.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said Wednesday that the United States and its allies had begun a campaign to disrupt terrorist operations around the world, including the arrest of a suspected senior member of Al Qaeda in Britain.
 The suspected Qaeda operative was among 12 men being questioned by the British authorities after raids prompted in part by the same intelligence information that led the administration to elevate the terror threat level in the United States over the weekend, including detailed reports about buildings housing major financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington. The Qaeda member, referred to as Abu Moussa al-Hindi or Abu Eisa al-Hindi, was of intense interest to the United States, a senior American official said.
 A day after senior White House officials said the decision to raise the terror alert level on Sunday had been driven in part by new intelligence beyond the information about specific buildings in the United States, the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, told reporters that ''there are some ongoing operations under way'' to disrupt terrorist activity.
 On Wednesday night, the New York City Police Department partly lifted restrictions on trucks and vans entering Manhattan, saying the decision was made because of confidence in the new security measures within the city. [Page B3.] 
 In Washington, the senior official said there were ''possibly'' direct ties between the arrests in Britain and the threats to the buildings in the United States.
 The official described the arrests as ''part of this web that emanates from Pakistan.'' The official said, ''What you saw in the U.K. was a result in part of information gained'' from the arrest last month of Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, the Pakistani computer engineer whose capture led the Central Intelligence Agency to computer files detailing the reconnaissance of financial institutions in the United States.
 Administration officials signaled that in light of the new information from Pakistan and the second strain of intelligence reporting, they had stepped up their efforts at home and abroad to track down suspected terrorists and guard against the possibility of an attack. 
 As new information came into the White House over the weekend, Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, called her counterparts in countries including Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Jordan to request help from their intelligence services, a government official said.
 Other officials signaled that there were intensified efforts under way by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine whether there were Qaeda operatives inside the United States. The reports found on Mr. Khan's computer hard drive about the buildings in the United States were written in what one White House official has described as ''perfect English,'' suggesting that the surveillance may have been carried out by or with the help of an American or someone who had spent considerable time in the United States or Britain. (Mr. Kahn himself speaks English and studied in London.)
 ''What I don't know at this point is how the terrorist operatives, facilitators are reacting to all of this,'' a senior American intelligence official said. ''They should be very nervous, they should be very concerned, because the information that has been put out right now is not the totality of our knowledge. There are activities going on right now in this country and overseas that are capitalizing on the information that has been uncovered.''
 The Metropolitan Police in London have said only that 13 people were arrested in an antiterrorism operation on Tuesday, that one was released, and that the remaining 12 are still in detention. British officials refused to provide further details, saying the operation was continuing and they did not want to jeopardize the investigation or potential prosecutions.
 British news organizations have reported conflicting accounts of whether the arrests stemmed from new intelligence developed after Mr. Khan's arrest. By some accounts, the raids had been planned for weeks, but by others they were related to the new information.
 But senior American intelligence officials said at least some of the arrests were tied to information uncovered in Pakistan. One senior American official said the United States was ''very interested'' in pursuing links between Mr. Khan and people in other countries, including Britain.
 Pakistani intelligence officials have said Mr. Khan, a fluent English speaker, spent time in Britain beginning in November 2002, taking a course in human resource management from City University, London, but dropping out after losing interest. Mr. Khan has told interrogators, the officials said, that two of his cousins lived in Britain and had been arrested there in 2000 on suspicion of involvement in terrorism after traveling to Bosnia and Chechnya to join in militant activities.
 Information provided by a Pakistani intelligence official also described links between Mr. Khan and e-mail addresses used by correspondents in Nigeria and Turkey. 
 The White House portrayed itself as moving aggressively to deal with the terrorist threat and was reluctant to spell out details of the intelligence it was acting on after several days in which it had been criticized for not making clear from the beginning that the newly discovered surveillance reports on buildings in the United States dated in some cases from three years ago or more.
 Continuing the administration's attempt to head off any public skepticism that it had exaggerated the threat, Vice President Dick Cheney said Wednesday that the White House's only consideration had been the safety of the American people.
 Speaking to factory workers and invited supporters at a lawn and garden equipment manufacturer in Lee's Summit, Mo., Mr. Cheney lashed out at those who have implied that the terror alerts were at all politically motivated, specifically citing former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont, an unsuccessful candidate this year for the Democratic presidential nomination.
 ''There has been some commentary from some of our critics -- Howard Dean comes to mind -- saying somehow this is being hyped for political reasons, that the data we collected here, the casing reports that provided the information on the prospective attacks is old data, i.e., four, five years old,'' he said. ''That just tells me Howard Dean doesn't know anything about how things operate.''
 Saying that the planning for the 1998 bombings of American embassies in Africa began four to five years before they happened and that the idea of attacking the United States using hijacked airplanes was first brought to Osama bin Laden's attention in 1996, Mr. Cheney said: ''These people are deliberate, they are methodical, their time table is their own. If you hit them and push them back, they may retreat for a while, but they will be back and they are absolutely lethal.''
 The computer hard drives seized in Pakistan yielded comprehensive reports on five buildings: those housing the New York Stock Exchange and Citigroup in Manhattan; Prudential's headquarters in Newark, and the headquarters buildings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington. Officials said the computer also had information related to other structures, including a Bank of America building in San Francisco.
 Speaking to reporters on Air Force One, Mr. McClellan described Mr. Khan as ''an active Al Qaeda operative who we know has ties to other Al Qaeda operatives who are involved in plotting to carry out attacks against the American people.''
 But it is not clear whether there is any connection between Mr. Khan's possession of the reports on the American buildings and his ties to people in Britain.
 Mr. Khan's father, Hayat Noor Khan, works as a purser for Pakistan International Airlines, a position that enabled him to obtain tickets for his son, a Pakistani intelligence official said. Mr. Khan, who speaks English with a British accent, is believed to have traveled to the United States, Germany and other countries in recent years.
 Among known Qaeda operatives that Mr. Khan has told Pakistani interrogators that he had met in the past are Khallad bin al-Attash, with whom he said he met in Karachi, Pakistan, in January 2003. Mr. Attash, who took part in the planning for the attack in Yemen on the destroyer Cole, is in American custody.
 The Pakistani intelligence official said Mr. Khan had also met with Abu Hamza al-Masri, the Egyptian cleric who preached at the Finsbury Park Mosque in Central London and whose extradition is now being sought by the American authorities.
 A senior American intelligence official refused to comment on reports of recent communications between Qaeda figures in Pakistan and people in the United States.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

U.S. to Keep Reactor Lapses Secret
 WASHINGTON, Aug. 4 (AP) -- The government will no longer disclose security gaps discovered at nuclear power plants, hoping to prevent terrorists from using the information, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said on Wednesday. The commission announced the change in policy during its first public meeting on power plant security since the Sept. 11 attacks. The change drew condemnation from critics who said it would erode public confidence in the agency.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An exclusive photograph of Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan obtained by ABC News.
 The Coast Guard and other agencies have increased patrols in New York Harbor since the recent terrorism warnings. (Photo by Mike Hvozda/United States Coast Guard)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (63%) Terrorism; Terrorism; Citigroup Center (NYC); Prudential Building (Newark, NJ); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); US COAST GUARD (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); International Monetary Fund; Federal Bureau of Investigation; New York Stock Exchange; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Richard W Stevenson; Douglas Jehl; Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan; Condoleezza Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JORDAN (66%) Great Britain; Pakistan; New York City; New Jersey; Washington (DC) ; Newark (NJ) ; Saudi Arabia; Jordan

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



132 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Foreigners Shun New York, Keeping Hotel Rates Down

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
More tourists visited New York City last year than any time in recent history, but international visitors continue to shun the city and daily hotel rates remain far below those in 2000, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday. 
 More than 37 million people stayed in hotels, slept on friends' couches, visited museums and ate in restaurants last year, a 7 percent increase over 2002, according to figures from NYC & Company, the city's tourism office. But those who stayed in hotels paid an average of about $192 a night, 17 percent less than in 2000. 
 Mr. Bloomberg and the president of the tourism bureau, Cristyne L. Nicholas, also said that tourism continued to increase this year, and that their survey of hotels, convention organizers and other groups that cater to visitors found that few had experienced a drop in business this week, after federal warnings about possible terrorist attacks in the city. 
 However, international conflicts did have an impact on tourism in 2003, they conceded. ''I don't think there is any question that SARS and Iraq and Madrid and all of the terrorism in Israel'' hurt the city's tourism business, Mr. Bloomberg said, particularly in the first quarter of 2003, when the war in Iraq and SARS depressed travel worldwide. 
 While visitors booked 19.5 million hotel rooms last year -- a 3 percent increase over 2002 -- the city took in $204.5 million in hotel taxes, 10 percent less than in 2000. ''We are very pleased that we are announcing a record number of visitors,'' Ms. Nicholas said, ''but when it comes to the economy, we have some work to do.''
 The bulk of the problem stems from a decline in international visitors. According to the information provided by the city, New York City is the favorite American destination for visitors from abroad. However, the number of foreign visitors to New York City dropped 5.7 percent last year from the year before. 
 That drop reflected a nationwide trend. Foreign visitors to the United States fell 2.2 percent overall in 2003, the third straight year of declines.
 ''It was not surprising the New York was hit especially hard since it is one of the top states visited by international travelers,'' said Cathy Keefe, spokeswoman for the Travel Industry Association of America. Overall travel prices have fallen since 2000 but have begun to increase over the last nine months, she added. 
 The decline of foreign tourism can have a pronounced effect on the market, officials said. 
 ''One of the problems is that international tourists spend a lot more,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''They tend to go toward more expensive rooms. So if you're full with American tourists, you don't have the pricing power you would have if you had international tourists.'' 
 Interestingly, there was a large spike in family travel to New York City last year -- a 13.6 percent increase over the prior year. Ms. Nicholas attributed that increase in part to Miffy -- a cartoon bunny that has appeared on merchandise and other items to promote New York City. 
 Iris Citron, the president of the New Jersey chapter of the American Society of Travel Agents, said that terrorism alerts might not deter domestic travel, but could be affecting international visits. ''All of the alerts that the government puts out may be inhibiting people from coming,'' Ms. Citron said. Lower hotel rates can help the city, Ms. Citron added, as long as they spurred spending. ''You would think with lower rates more people would be coming in. If people are spending money in the city, so be it. They may be attracting more people because those rates are low.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rod and Tricia Voss, of Minnesota, with their children in Times Square. A surge in American tourists has failed to propel hotel rates. (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); TERRORISM (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (54%) Travel and Vacations; Terrorism; Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: NYC & Co

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



133 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Ads for (and at No Cost to) Kerry Keep Flowing

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: LEE'S SUMMIT, Mo., Aug. 4 

 BODY:
In the weeks leading up to the Democratic convention, Senator John Kerry's campaign aides worried that the senator would have to begin spending his $75 million in public financing a month earlier than President Bush. They even flirted with the idea that he would delay accepting the nomination so he could keep raising and spending millions of dollars on advertising throughout August.
 But August has brought a spate of what seemed to be Kerry advertisements every day. To a voter's eye, the senator's campaign marches on seamlessly -- and usually on message. And the campaign is not a penny poorer for it.
 The advertisements introduced this week were not paid for by Mr. Kerry's campaign, but from a newly formed arm of the Democratic Party, which is running a $6.5 million advertising campaign in Missouri and 19 others this week, and The Media Fund, which is running a $2.5 million campaign in five swing states, and the New Democratic Network, which is spending $500,000 on Spanish-language commercials in 11 cities. The advertisements from the campaign and the party are in many ways similar, emphasizing words like ''win,'' ''strength'' and ''alliances.'' 
 For the second time this campaign season outside groups that are not legally allowed to coordinate with Mr. Kerry's campaign are riding to its rescue at a crucial time in its advertising campaign against President Bush -- the most expensive on record. The spots hit just when Mr. Kerry ceased advertising and when Mr. Bush increased his with commercials reminding the nation of what it has been through, the dangers that lie ahead and, in one released Tuesday, declaring it is ''rising to the challenge.''
 Liberal groups like The Media Fund and Moveon.org, which previously ran the advertisements The Media Fund is using now, ran heavy advertising campaigns after Mr. Kerry effectively clinched the Democratic nomination in March. They spent millions of dollars on spots highly critical of Mr. Bush in key states at a time when Mr. Kerry was too broke to run many of his own advertisements -- and facing a barrage of attack advertisements from Mr. Bush.
 Now, the Democratic Party, The Media Fund and others are doing the same thing because Mr. Kerry's campaign decided that it had to stop advertising in August to maintain financial parity with Mr. Bush in the last two months of the campaign. The decision was forced by the peculiarities of the campaign finance system, which bequeaths Mr. Kerry $75 million for the general election but restricts him to spending that and only that between accepting his party's nomination and Election Day, Nov. 2. Mr. Bush will be held to the same restriction, but he does not accept his party's nomination until Sept. 2, giving him one less month in which to spend the money -- and another month to spend freely.
 In most markets, the Democratic Party's spots are running at roughly the same levels as those of Mr. Bush. Here in Lee's Summit, part of the Kansas City television market, typical voters will see the party advertisement 11 times over the course of a week and Mr. Bush's advertisements 10 times, according to data provided by The Media Fund. In some markets in Florida, Nevada, New Mexico, Ohio and Pennsylvania, advertisements for the party and The Media Fund are together running twice as often as those of Mr. Bush, as is the case in Pittsburgh. 
 Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's chief campaign strategist, said his campaign had all along expected outside groups and later the party to carry Mr. Kerry's advertising water. 
 ''We've said since March 3 that we expected to be outspent by Kerry and outside groups,'' Mr. Dowd said, referring to the day his campaign first introduced its advertising campaign.
 Though Mr. Kerry's aides are loathe to admit it, most analysts agree that the senator would not be able to cease advertising and save his money for later without great risk if he did not know that friendly outside groups would be there for him. 
 In the past, this would not have been such an enviable position. Outside groups have traditionally been as problematic as helpful to presidential campaigns, often hitting themes or notes in their spots that the campaigns have wanted to avoid. Former aides to Representative Richard A. Gephardt maintain that he was punished in the past primary season by voters who did not like the negativity of spots run against Howard Dean in Iowa by an outside group of Gephardt supporters that called itself Americans for Jobs, Health Care and Progressive Values. 
 Yet this time around the spots from outside liberal and Democratic groups have dovetailed almost perfectly with the messages of the Kerry campaign -- sticking largely to health care, jobs and the Iraq war -- prompting occasional accusations of collusion from Republicans.
 Democrats and outside analysts said an extraordinary level of party unity against Mr. Bush had prompted the outside groups to toe Mr. Kerry's line, or at least to try their best without directly speaking with his aides.
 The Democratic National Committee is allowed to spend only about $16 million in coordination with Mr. Kerry's campaign. But it is allowed to spend as much as it wants through Ellen Moran's committee -- whose consultants include former advisers to Mr. Gephardt and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina -- so long as she works independently of campaign party operatives.
 Ms. Moran, head of the new Democratic Party arm formed to run advertisements on Mr. Kerry's behalf, said she did not need to be in contact with Mr. Kerry to carry his message.
 ''Just because we're independent doesn't mean we're uninformed,'' Ms. Moran said in an interview. ''Our decisions are informed by watching the news, reading the clips, conducting our own polling and getting advice from a team of presidential campaign veterans who really know what they're doing.''
 The campaign veterans and those working with Mr. Kerry do seem to be working from the same script, as evidenced by the recurrence of key words like ''alliances'' and ''strength'' in the party advertisement and one of Mr. Kerry's most recent advertisements about terrorist threats.
 But Ms. Moran, noting that the words she used were those of Mr. Kerry himself, said the choice of which bits of Mr. Kerry's acceptance speech to use for her first spot was obvious after Mr. Kerry made his national security credentials the focal point of his nominating convention.
 The Media Fund has repeatedly denied having any coordination with Mr. Kerry's campaign operatives or those of the party. 
 ''The truth is we don't need to talk to the campaign or the D.N.C. to know what's moving voters this cycle,'' said Jim Jordan, a spokesman for The Media Fund and formerly Mr. Kerry's campaign manager.
 Mr. Jordan said the group decided to increase its advertising now because ''The Media Fund all along has seen its mission as providing gaps, providing air cover, when other Democrats were dark and silent.''
 Mr. Kerry's aides acknowledge that they found themselves in a fix this month but deny that they based any decisions on what they expected of outside groups.
 ''The calculation on our side was, no matter what anyone else was doing, to try to be there in a meaningful way at the end,'' said Tad Devine, a top adviser to Mr. Kerry.
 Asked to assess how helpful the outside groups have been, Mr. Devine said, ''I have avoided any public or private discussions of what other people are doing; there are very serious laws involved.''
 Ms. Moran said she had gone so far as to stop socializing with colleagues with the Democratic Party or the Kerry campaign.
 ''I'm in a bunker,'' she said. ''It's a lonely existence, but that's where we are right now.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ALMOST WITHIN SHOUTING DISTANCE -- President Bush shook hands at a rally in Davenport, Iowa, while only four blocks away Senator John Kerry took part in an ''economic summit.'' Page A18. (Photos by Top, Stephen Crowley/The New York Times
above, Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 (pg. A18)Chart: ''Two Ads, One Candidate''Though John Kerry's campaign has ceased television advertising to save money, commercials on his behalf are being paid for by the Democratic National Committee.''Strength''30 SECONDSDemocratic National Committee advertisement[Kerry, from his acceptance speech] I defended this country as a young man, and I will defend it as president. We need a strong military, and we need strong alliances. And then we will be able to tell the terrorists, ''You will lose, and we will win.'' The future doesn't belong to fear. It belongs to freedom.[Voice over] The Democratic National Committee is responsible for the content of this advertisement.''War on Terror''30 SECONDSKerry/Edwards recent advertisement[Kerry] To win the war on terror, we have to be tough and smart. We have to rebuild our alliances, because that's the best way to find and get the terrorists before they get us. America shouldn't have to carry the burden alone. And we have to strengthen our homeland security, protect our trains and our ports. We shouldn't be opening fire houses in Baghdad and closing them down in our own communities. I'm John Kerry, and I approved this message because a strong America begins at home.(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; Finances; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Jim Rutenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (70%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (59%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



134 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Credit Suisse Looks for Turnaround of First Boston Unit

BYLINE: By FIONA FLECK

DATELINE: ZURICH, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
Credit Suisse reported on Wednesday that second-quarter earnings were slightly better than expected, but its Credit Suisse First Boston investment banking unit showed it was in need of a turnaround.
 Shares of the company fell more than 6 percent to their lowest level in a year.
 The results were the first since John J. Mack left as co-chief executive of Credit Suisse in late June after disagreements over strategy. Credit Suisse swung to a profit of 1.46 billion Swiss francs ($1.14 billion), for the quarter, in contrast to a loss of 556 million Swiss francs in the quarter a year ago. But the First Boston unit, while reporting improved results from a year ago, showed a 43 percent drop in earnings from the first three months of the year. 
 Credit Suisse's chief executive, Oswald J. Grubel, said that First Boston's results were ''not up to scratch'' because they were too volatile and that Mr. Mack had pursued the wrong strategy. 
 ''At C.S.F.B., we need to build on the turnaround,'' Mr. Grubel told reporters at the company's headquarters in Zurich. ''The results are not satisfactory and not on the level of our competitors.''
 Mr. Mack, a former Morgan Stanley president who was brought in years ago to clean up the scandal-plagued First Boston unit, streamline it and bolster its profits, was not focused enough in his strategy for the unit, Mr. Grubel said in an interview. 
 Under Mr. Mack, First Boston sought to compete with the biggest investments in all their businesses, Mr. Grubel said. ''That, we do not believe, is the best way of creating profitability in the near future,'' he said.
 Mr. Mack's successor at First Boston, Brady W. Dougan, said in an interview that several areas presented opportunities, including leveraged finance, private equity and commodities. 
 ''The current environment for the investment banking industry is challenging,'' he noted.
 Mr. Mack's departure in June came amid a wider management shake-up. Credit Suisse's two divisions were divided into three, including Winterthur, prompting speculation it is for sale.
 In a note to shareholders, Mr. Grubel attributed Credit Suisse's gains to good revenue generation in ''most businesses'' -- citing private banking, and retail and corporate banking -- and a brighter global economic climate. 
 In a separate interview, Mr. Dougan said three areas at Credit Suisse First Boston presented business opportunities.
 The first was exporting business models that have been successful in the United States to Europe and Asia like leveraged finance and private equity. The second was new business areas like commodities. The third was to focus on core businesses like large capital markets, prime brokerage and trading.
 ''The current environment for the investment banking industry is challenging,'' Mr. Dougan said, citing increasing compensation and staff retention costs, declining business margins and increased competition from commercial banks ''entering the investment banking business.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Oswald J. Grubel, chief executive of Credit Suisse, said that First Boston's results were ''not up to scratch'' because they were too volatile. (Photo by Siggi Bucher/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PRIVATE BANKING (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Company Reports

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse; Credit Suisse First Boston; Credit Suisse

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (79%) Fiona Fleck; Oswald J Grubel

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%) SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



135 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2613 words

HEADLINE: Links Between Prison and AIDS Affecting Blacks Inside and Out

BYLINE: By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C. 

 BODY:
Fiddling with a cigarette, Louise, a straight-talking 23-year-old who has been living with H.I.V. for four years, grimaced as she discussed life in the black neighborhood of her small town, a sleepy outpost east of the state capital.
 The only jobs, she said, were generally at fast-food places, farms or factories. Entertainment consisted of hanging out on the street corner or at the strip mall. And as for men, she said, with an air of resignation, ''They've either been in prison, they're married or they're gay.''
 It never seemed unusual, said Louise, who asked that her last name be withheld because some people close to her are unaware of her H.I.V. status, that nearly all the men she had been involved with -- including the one who passed the virus on to her -- had been in prison. 
 ''In a grocery store you have a big selection of meat laid out in front of you, and you can chose which grade you want,'' she said. But in her town, she added, ''you don't have that choice. There is no way to really decide the good from the bad. It's all what you decide you can deal with.''
 As health specialists continue to grapple with global challenges to combating AIDS, Louise, a black woman living in the South, infected through heterosexual sex, represents the continuing struggle with the epidemic in the United States. Her story also illuminates a complex domestic issue: the link between high rates of imprisonment among African-Americans and high rates of H.I.V. and AIDS. 
 While many studies have documented the prevalence of the disease in prisons, researchers are now examining how patterns of incarceration affect its transmission beyond prison walls.
 The health consequences cut across lines of class, said Dr. Peter Leone, medical director of the H.I.V. and sexually transmitted disease division of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. ''You're not even looking at six degrees of separation in most black social networks between a disenfranchised former inmate and someone who is in college or highly respected in the community,'' he said.
 Researchers say high incarceration rates increase risk behaviors associated with H.I.V. by skewing the ratio of women to men, worsening economic conditions and increasing the social capital of men who are not imprisoned.
 ''H.I.V. is an opportunistic disease that thrives on disruptions of social networks,'' said Dr. David Wohl, an infectious disease specialist at the University of North Carolina, where several studies on the subject are under way. ''You can hardly get more socially disruptive than removing double-digit percentages of men from communities for extended periods of time.''
 Blacks now account for more than half of all new H.I.V. infections, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Black women account for 72 percent of all new cases among women. During the decades that the AIDS epidemic has spread, the number of people incarcerated has also soared, to nearly 2.1 million, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Of that total, more than 40 percent are black.
 As the number of people living with H.I.V. increases, and with roughly 600,000 prisoners re-entering society each year, researchers are starting to address the two issues as intertwined epidemics requiring combined prevention and treatment strategies.
 In North Carolina, African-Americans make up more than 70 percent of all existing H.I.V. and AIDS cases, and about 60 percent of the state's roughly 35,000 prisoners. James Thomas, a University of North Carolina epidemiologist conducting a county-by-county study of the data, found ''a robust correlation'' between incarceration rates and the rates of H.I.V. and other sexually transmitted diseases. 
 Doctors and social workers in the state say prison, either directly or indirectly, affects many of their H.I.V. patients. An infected woman near Chapel Hill, for example, suspected her boyfriend of having sex with men in prison and after he got out, but could never bring herself to ask him about it. Mary, a former nurse from Charlotte, ignored her husband's infidelities because so few men were available.
 ''I had the whole world in front of me, living fine, until this blow came,'' said Mary, 50, who asked that her last name be withheld to protect her grandchildren, whom she is raising.

Louise's Story
 For Louise, who grew up in Wake County, in a rural town of 4,000 where blacks are clustered on the poorer south side, H.I.V. has quietly joined poverty, drugs and prison stints as part of the tattered fabric of daily life. 
 The oldest of four siblings in a family that struggled to make ends meet on her father's factory wages, Louise became sexually active at 13. Nice homes and good jobs seemed reserved for whites on the other side of town. The dead-end jobs where most blacks ended up made school seem irrelevant. Sex, she said, was an easy way to pass time, and a drug dealer's ready supply of cash outweighed whether he had come from -- or might soon go to -- prison or jail.
 ''Most of the guys I dealt with had a drug charge at some time,'' she said. ''I remember this one guy, I saw the gold in his mouth and I thought, 'Ching, ching. He can give me what I want.' But then I was also thinking, 'Is this really what I want?''' 
 She was dumbfounded, she said, when a blood test she took as part of a gynecological exam when she was 19 showed she was H.I.V. positive. She never found out how or where the former prisoner who infected her had picked up the virus, though she assumed it was from sex because she never saw him use intravenous drugs.
 ''When you think about the things that might happen, you think as long as you don't have a baby you're O.K.,'' Louise said. ''You think about the guy you're dating, how he might violate probation and go to jail again and you'll be alone. But you never think that he could have this disease. You never think about that.''

After Prison
 Many inmates enter prison already infected. The prevalence of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons is three times as high as it is in the general population, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. H.I.V. cases are harder to count, because only 19 states conduct mandatory H.I.V. testing of inmates. But many researchers believe the number of prisoners with H.I.V. to be far higher than the 1.9 percent most recently documented by the justice agency.
 Correctional health experts say the rampant sexual activity among prisoners depicted in television shows like the HBO prison series ''Oz'' is exaggerated. But sex in prison certainly occurs. And because the distribution of condoms is banned in most correctional facilities -- North Carolina's state prison system included -- any sex between inmates carries a high level of risk.
 Add the element of drug addiction, which often goes untreated in prisons and is frequently accompanied by risky sexual activity, said Robert E. Fullilove, associate dean at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, and the risk of H.I.V. transmission both inside and outside prison increases exponentially.
 ''The war on drugs took the group that was at greatest risk for H.I.V. infection and made sure that they would be locked up, without ever considering what to do when they got out,'' Mr. Fullilove said. 
 Newly released prisoners often plunge immediately into dangerous sexual behavior. ''Many inmates who have been locked up for a while want two things when they come out,'' said Dr. Wohl, who regularly sees current and former inmates in his clinical practice. ''One of them is a Big Mac. The other is sex. If you're going to get to them with condoms or health messages, you have to be quick.''
 Thomas Clodfelter, 44, a former felon with H.I.V. who now counsels other ex-convicts in Greensboro, said that for some men, the first weekend after release is consumed with sex -- with prostitutes, old flings, fresh one-night stands or a combination thereof. Condoms, he said, are often an afterthought. 
 Mr. Clodfelter, who was infected through heterosexual sex and who served four prison terms for offenses including drug possession, robbery and a shooting, said people were quick to blame men for spreading the virus. But in neighborhoods where self-esteem runs low and desperation high, he said, women often pursue risky sex as aggressively as men. 
 ''A lot of women, they are looking for a man to give them a sense of strength, a sense of authority,'' he said. ''Men come out of prison, they're all big, got muscles, looking good. And the women, they're all up on them. It's not like people don't know they are putting themselves at risk. They just don't care.''
 Such obvious risks, Mr. Clodfelter and others say, are compounded by the difficulty many felons have in re-entering society -- hurdles that often push them back into dangerous social and sexual behavior.

William's Story
 Sitting recently in a tidy one-bedroom apartment in the city of High Point, William, a two-time inmate with AIDS, looked troubled. On his coffee table, next to a cousin's kindergarten graduation picture and a book titled ''Foods That Heal,'' were two letters bearing bad news.
 One was from the Social Security Administration, informing him that although he had AIDS, he did not qualify for financial benefits. The other was from the Guilford County Department of Social Services, explaining that because he had been denied Social Security, he was ineligible for Medicaid, a benefit he needed to pay for his twice-daily regimen of five AIDS medications. The side effects of those same drugs, he said, made it difficult to work the physically demanding jobs he was qualified for with only an eighth-grade education.
 William, 36, who asked that his last name be withheld to protect his identity as he looked for a job, had also applied for help from the federally financed AIDS Drug Assistance Program. But the waiting list in North Carolina includes more than 800 people, the longest in the country.
 ''I guess you got to be half dead for them to start giving you some money,'' he said, looking down at the bureaucratic hurdles spelled out before him. '' If I didn't have a place to stay, I'd probably resort to crime again.''
 Sharon Lipscomb, William's case manager, said his challenges were not unique. As a director of services in High Point for the Triad Health Project, an AIDS service organization, she has 65 to 100 clients at a time struggling with issues like housing, mental illness and myriad chronic diseases. William, she said, was among the more motivated, having aggressively sought medical and social support upon his release.
 When he first agreed, more than two months ago, to talk to a reporter about his reintegration into society, the former inmate was upbeat. But in subsequent weeks, after a series of disappointments, he grew increasingly pessimistic and destructive.
 A gay man who had mused in an early interview about ''finding a serious woman'' to appease his Pentecostal family, William had recently begun to move through precarious sexual relationships. There was a 26-year-old man from a neighboring town whom he met on a telephone chat line and a 19-year-old man from Georgia who hurt his feelings by moving in with another man. 
 William said he had used condoms with both men. But he admitted, with a measure of guilt, that he had stopped taking his medications because the side effects were too much to deal with along with all of his other struggles. 
 Mr. Clodfelter said hard-luck stories like William's often turn ugly fast. ''People head back to their same old playgrounds -- drugs, hustling, whatever,'' he said. ''And soon the cycle starts itself all over again.''

Looking for Solutions
 The link between former inmates like William and women like Louise is not that distant, experts say. ''It doesn't matter whether you're straight or gay, poor or middle class,'' Ms. Lipscomb said. ''In black communities the networks are very close. A man he's having sex with may have a wife or a girlfriend, who would rather not know what's going on. What happens to him has an effect on what happens to a lot of people.''
 Dr. Adaora A. Adimora, an infectious disease specialist and epidemiologist at the University of North Carolina medical school, found that high levels of incarceration even decrease monogamy between women and men who have never been in prison, because the men left behind are in high demand.
 That is especially true, Louise said, if the man is a ''roller -- someone to pay your bills, take you out to eat, take you shopping.'' If he's a real roller, she said, ''it's almost a given he's got a chick on the side. You're not really his woman. It's more like rental property. It's all temporary.''
 She talked disapprovingly of three women she recently saw riding in a car together who were knowingly sharing the same man. ''He's got money, so they don't talk about it and act like they don't care,'' she said. ''They're not looking at how stupid they look.''
 Researchers trying to prevent the spread of H.I.V. are urging strategies that connect education and treatment among three groups of people: inmates, those recently released, and those in the social networks through which they move.
 The University of North Carolina has a contract with the state's corrections department to operate weekday medical clinics in three of the state's 77 prisons. Every Wednesday a university-based team of physicians, nurses, social scientists and health policy professionals called the Prison Working Group meets over pizza to discuss their research.
 Pre-release planning for H.I.V.-infected inmates varies from state to state. In North Carolina, infected inmates get counseling, a 30-day supply of medications, a prescription for 30 more days and contact information for health service organizations before they are released. 
 In a new project, case managers from the university group will begin accompanying patients to their first medical and social service appointments outside prison, overseeing their progress for six months after release.
 More difficult than experimenting with new treatment approaches, members of the group say, is stripping away the stigma that still shrouds much discussion of H.I.V. among blacks in the South.
 As with William, Louise's infection is mostly unacknowledged in her family. When a male relative died recently of AIDS, she said, his illness was generally referred to within the family as sickle cell anemia.
 It is not uncommon, several doctors said, for patients, especially women, to seek treatment in another city or county because of shame. Mary, the nurse from Charlotte who was infected by her husband, said she drove to Atlanta for two years to seek treatment to keep people close to her from finding out she had contracted the disease.
 Reluctant at first, Louise said she eventually came to view her conversations with a reporter ''as testimony, so people will start to be honest.'' Now in what she termed a secure relationship, she said she viewed the compromises she once made as ''plain stupid.'' Had she not become infected, she said, ''there's no telling where I'd be now, but it sure wouldn't have been nowhere good.''
 With a full-time job as a security guard, she is hoping to save enough money to pay for cosmetology school. Her current boyfriend was briefly in jail, but he has a good job in construction and a house, which they share. He knows she is H.I.V. positive, she said, and he is very supportive. 
 After a moment of hesitation, Louise admitted that they do not always use protection. 
 ''He says if he gets infected he'll just deal with it,'' she said with a shrug of her shoulders and a raised eyebrow that hinted at disbelief.


GRAPHIC: Photos: William, an AIDS patient, with Sharon Lipscomb, his caseworker. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Dr. Adaora A. Adimora and Dr. David Wohl, infectious disease specialists at the University of North Carolina, are studying the connections between high incarceration rates and the spread of H.I.V. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart/Map: ''Inmates and H.I.V.''With disproportionately high rates of incarceration and H.I.V. infection among blacks in North Carolina, some researchers are exploring the links between the two, discussing them as intertwined epidemics.Graph tracks North Carolina prison inmates by race, and by county of last residence in 2003.Graph tracks North Carolina residents living with H.I.V./AIDS by race, and by county in 2003.Map of North Carolina highlighting the counties of Guilford, and Wake.(Sources by North Carolina Department of Correction
Census Bureau
 North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PRISONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MEN (76%); WOMEN (75%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (73%); EPIDEMICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (72%); RETAILERS (71%); FAST FOOD (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Blacks; Prisons and Prisoners; Women; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%)

PERSON: Lynette Clemetson

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



136 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Education Building to Get Different Site in Newark Redevelopment Plan

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
As the finishing touches were being put on the lease between Newark and the New Jersey Devils for a planned $310 million arena that is at the core of a downtown redevelopment plan, officials said that a proposal to build a new Board of Education headquarters on one of the more commercially viable plots in the redevelopment area had been scrapped.
 News of the change in plans came as Newark city officials said they were preparing to submit details of the nearly five-year-old arena proposal to both the City Council, which must approve it, and a blue ribbon commission that Mayor Sharpe James created to provide some independent evaluation of the envisioned benefits. Those details are scheduled to go first to the Council and then to the commission. 
 But already, changes in the plans for the 24-acre area in the heart of downtown reflect concerns of many on the commission and the City Council about the ability of the district, which will include a community center, office buildings, a 300-room hotel and the new education complex, to support economic growth. Early in their deliberations, commission members questioned the wisdom of placing the planned Board of Education headquarters prominently in the heart of the business district, at the corner of Lafayette and Broad Streets, the plan that has now been scrapped.
 ''It's no longer in that location, but it is still in the downtown core area,'' said a city official involved in shaping the plan. He would not disclose the final location on which officials had agreed.
 The change was revealed as the Devils deal firmed up. Details of that agreement, being ironed out in the lease negotiations, said the official, include language on how revenue from the arena would be shared, on the guarantee of a no-risk construction contract in which the Devils' ownership would ensure that any overruns would not be paid for with public money and on an affirmative-action program for hiring by contractors and subcontractors for both construction and arena operations.
 Patrick Hobbs, dean of the Seton Hall University Law School and chairman of the blue ribbon commission of academics, business leaders and civic leaders, said of the changes: ''We think some of the revisions are a response to our ongoing work. That work has a vision of trying to make connections between the arena and other parts of downtown to enhance economic development.''
 Already, there is agreement that the city would provide $210 million of the cost of the arena and the Devils would provide $100 million. The city portion of the financing is essentially already in hand, as a result of the sale of bonds whose repayment is backed by 30 years of Port Authority lease payments to the city for Newark Liberty International Airport.
 Still to be revealed are details of the location and construction of the hotel, some 500,000 square feet of office space, 150,000 square feet of retail space, a $25 million community center promised by the Devils owners and a 3,200-space parking garage to be operated by the city.
 Since it was first proposed as the new home for both the New Jersey Nets and the Devils in 1999, the idea of a Newark arena has been caught in a labyrinth of state political rivalries and competing development priorities, local fiscal pressures and the vagaries of the shifts in the ownership of sports franchises. During that time, the plan has often looked to be down for the count, only to rise slowly with some new strategy. But it has remained the centerpiece of the city's redevelopment efforts.


GRAPHIC: Map of Newark, NJ, highlighting the downtown core district: Plans to redevelop downtown Newark include a new arena for the New Jersey Devils. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); MAYORS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (64%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); AIRPORTS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Education and Schools; Area Planning and Renewal; Hockey, Ice; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (93%) New Jersey Devils

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (97%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



137 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: Sudanese Suffer as Militias Hide in Plain Sight

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: NYALA, Sudan, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Sudan's government lined up 50 prisoners at the main jail here recently and offered them as evidence to the world that it was cracking down on the militias that have stained so much of the desert sand of Darfur, the country's western region, with blood.
 But when the men spoke and when their court files were reviewed, it quickly became clear that many of them were not members of the militias, which have displaced a million villagers in the last year and a half and killed tens of thousands in what the United States Congress calls a genocide. 
 Among the group were petty criminals who had already been in jail as long as four years. One man's charge was drinking wine in a country that forbids it. 
 The United Nations Security Council has given Sudan until Aug. 30 to rein in the militias, called the Janjaweed, Arab tribesmen whom the government armed and then unleashed in Darfur to quell a rebellion among darker-skinned Africans that began in early 2003. Failure to disarm the militias could mean sanctions against the government in Khartoum. 
 But Janjaweed is a fluid identity, and diplomats here say the government has exploited the ambiguity. First it armed the militias, rallied them and set them loose in Darfur. Then it gave many of the same men uniforms and declared them upholders of the law. Sometimes the Janjaweed have served as law enforcement officers by day and reverted to pillaging at night. 
 The government says it has sent thousands of security officers to Darfur to impose order and plans to send thousands more. But whether the government is bringing the Janjaweed to heel, or even if it can, is far from clear.
 ''If you sent 200 soldiers out to get the Janjaweed, maybe 50 of them would probably be Janjaweed themselves,'' said Osman Mirghani, a prominent columnist for the Sudanese newspaper Al Rayaam who has written frequently and frankly about the conflict in Darfur, sometimes incurring the wrath of the government.
 ''A Janjaweed is a Janjaweed when he is on his horse with his gun, going to burn and kill,'' Mr. Mirghani said. ''But when he comes back to his village and hides his gun he is no different than anyone else. Maybe he's a policeman during the day and a Janjaweed at night.''
 Indeed, in many cases the government has provided the Janjaweed with uniforms, identification cards and commissions in the police, army or popular defense force, according to interviews with aid workers, local human rights advocates and others. As far as the government is concerned they are no longer Janjaweed.
 ''I'm a soldier now,'' said one such new recruit, a Arab teenager who was smiling as he cradled his assault rifle. He was speaking to his schoolteacher, a black African, who had seen him with Janjaweed leaders.
 Without their guns and horses, without the head wraps they use to shield themselves from Darfur's searing heat and blowing wind, the Janjaweed blend easily into the local population. When not in government-issued camouflage uniforms, they wear the long white robes common among Sudanese. 
 Some sit behind desks when they are not pillaging. Others herd camels by day but do unspeakable things once the desert turns dark at night.
 Further muddying things, the government accuses the rebels, who call themselves the Sudan Liberation Army and the Justice and Equality Movement, of using camels during some of their attacks, pretending to be Janjaweed in an attempt to smear officials in Khartoum.
 To avoid confusion, some have stopped using the term Janjaweed altogether. The term itself is an amalgam of Arabic words that roughly translates as ''a devil on horseback with a gun.'' No one would ever admit to being one. 
 '''Janjaweed' is a catchall phrase that means different things to different people,'' said William Patey, the British ambassador to Sudan. ''We need to be specific about what we mean, namely bandits, tribal militias or elements of the popular defense forces.''
 Not all of the Arab fighters one encounters in Darfur have followed the government's script. Some are loyal only to themselves, roaming the countryside as criminals always have and taking advantage of the chaos. They take on anyone they encounter, including other Janjaweed. 
 As for the convicts squatting in the dirt in Nyala's jail, there were drug dealers, murderers and thieves. Just who was a Janjaweed militiaman remained a matter of interpretation.
 None of the men would acknowledge having been a part of the loose bands of Arab fighters. It was far easier to pick out who had nothing to do with Darfur's current chaos. There were prisoners who had been arrested two, three, even four years ago. Many others were picked up for the kinds of theft, killing and other crime that has always been a part of this long-neglected part of Sudan.
 There were six men, including two fathers and their sons, who were accused torching a village north of Nyala called Haloof, killing 23 villagers, wounding 9 others and stealing all of the residents' cows and goats.
 ''They say I am a Janjaweed,'' said Suleiman Muhammad Shariff, 74, an elder in an Arab tribe accused of attacking Haloof. ''It's not true.''
 Only the villagers who have been the victims of the Janjaweed's wrath, who have heard their horses coming and experienced their ruthless attacks, seem to have no trouble identifying the militiamen. 
 ''A Janjaweed came right over my fence, pointed a gun at me and took my horse,'' said Abdallah Ibrahim, who was robbed last weekend right inside a camp for displaced people in Geneina, a town near Sudan's border with Chad. The very same day, another woman was shot by a man she considered a Janjaweed in the same camp. He made away with her cow.
 Earlier that day a teenage boy was shot in the foot after three Janjaweed accosted him as he tended cattle outside the same settlement. They made away with the entire herd.
 As Darfur is now, a fifth of the population has been displaced and is living in such camps. Most have been stripped of their belongings. Their villages have been torched to the ground. How many bodies remain buried in Darfur remains an unknown, although estimates range from 30,000 to five times that.
 There have long been tribal clashes in Darfur between Arab animal herders and the black Africans who plant crops in the dry soil. Their different livelihoods have led to disputes over land, over stolen animals, over any number of infractions.
 ''We are camel herders, and we have always had guns to defend ourselves,'' said Juma Dagalow Musa, a tribal leader north of Nyala, where torched villages dot the landscape for miles.
 Mr. Musa said he was no Janjaweed but understood why Arab tribes had friction with the black Africans. His tribe lost 1,400 camels in February and March of this year, he said, all pilfered by armed rebels from black African tribes. ''We wanted to go recover them,'' he said, insisting that he had persuaded his tribal fighters to stay put.
 Many fighters, all over Darfur, could not be contained.
 The United States government has begun preparing a list of Janjaweed leaders, relying on information culled from private relief organizations working in Darfur. Others in Darfur are tallying their own informal Janjaweed rosters.
 ''There is no shortage of names,'' said one official who is tracking them. ''There are thousands of them, but how many thousands is anybody's guess.''
 At one squatter settlement in the remote reaches of Northern Darfur, a man who was forced from his village by the Janjaweed months ago keeps his own tally of local Janjaweed leaders, names he receives from word of mouth from area villagers. 
 The man, who whispered his name but insisted that it not appear in print, disappeared into a tiny makeshift hut and came out holding a well-worn notebook that he keeps hidden from the local authorities. He has become the camp's security monitor, a fact that he keeps quiet when government officials are around. He writes down Janjaweed offenses. 
 On July 14 a group of Janjaweed on camels and horses stole 30 animals. The next day a group of Janjaweed came near the camp and fired their guns into the air to prevent some people from collecting firewood. Two days later Janjaweed intimidated some people trying to plant seeds near the camp by firing into the air. The next day Janjaweed returned and stole 80 goats and a donkey.
 At the top of this man's Janjaweed list was Musa Hilal, one of the men whose names Pierre-Richard Prosper, the American ambassador for war crimes issues, uttered in testimony before Congress. Mr. Hilal is said to control thousands of fighters and to enjoy close relations with top government officials. 
 ''Musa Hilal is the man behind the Janjaweed around here,'' said the villager who logs the attacks.
 Mr. Hilal, a tribal leader from farther north, in El Fasher, admits that he has rallied his Arab tribe's vast network of fighters against black Africans. But in conversations with reporters and diplomats, he rejects the term Janjaweed, which he says applies to outlaws, not agents of the government like him. '''Janjaweed' is an insult,'' he told Reuters.
 Mr. Hilal says he is acting on behalf of the government, protecting Arabs against the black African rebels. ''They rebelled, threatened us, tried to sow discord between us,'' he said. ''We retaliated, and we are criminals?"
 Caught in the middle of the conflict have been villagers going about their lives. They accuse Mr. Hilal's militias of torching their huts and killing indiscriminately, as well as raping and looting at will. He says his fighters have focused their efforts on rebels, not civilians.
 One thing is clear: it will be difficult for the government to turn back the clock in Darfur and take away all of the guns. Many allies of the Janjaweed are allies of the government, not people the authorities in Khartoum will be inclined to offend.
 Perhaps more realistic than total disarmament, elders in Darfur say, is some kind of truce, but even that remains a tricky prospect, particularly given that there are countless Janjaweed militiamen whose identities are uncertain.
 ''Those are Janjaweed,'' a black African villager said along the main street in the town of Kitum, pointing to a pickup truck roaring past with men piled into the back. The truck was outfitted with a high-caliber gun, and many of the men wore camouflage.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of the Fato Barno camp keep a book to document atrocities. (Photo by Guillaume Bonn for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Musa Hilal, second from left, on a visit to the village of Kala. He is said to control thousands of fighters and to have close relations with top officials. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein/Polaris)
In the Nyala jail, Judge Mahjob Abdalla Osman watched 50 prisoners described by the Sudanese government as Janjaweed militiamen.
 Farrah Muhammad Abdullah, in her mother's arms, and Abdulhaleen Mustafa were in the dispensary at the Kalma camp for severe malnutrition. (Photographs by Guillaume Bonn for The New York Times)(pg. A6)Chart/Map: ''Darfur Villages Razed''As of Aug. 2, at least 395 villages have been completely destroyed and at least 121 others have been damaged.Map of Sudan highlighting destroyed villages, damaged villages, and refugee camps.(Source by U.S. State Department via A.I.D.)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); ARMIES (73%); GENOCIDE (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); WRITERS (62%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Sudan; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



138 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Dominican Republic on Edge of a Default

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, Aug. 4 

 BODY:
The Dominican Republic is coming uncomfortably close to a default on its foreign debt as the incoming administration of Leonel Fernandez, who assumes the presidency later this month, positions itself to grapple with a simmering economic crisis. 
 Signs of increased hardship are evident throughout this capital city of two million, with prices for basic foods nearly doubling in the last year. Shortages of gasoline and propane have idled many automobiles, and electricity blackouts last as long as 20 hours, blanketing much of Santo Domingo in darkness at nightfall.
 ''Life has become much more of a struggle to survive, period,'' said Maxima Prensa, 36, who operates a hair salon in the living room of her home in a working-class neighborhood here. ''The proof of this is all around us.'' 
 The outgoing administration of President Hipolito Mejia, trounced in a re-election bid in May, has come under criticism for using public money to compensate a relatively small number of depositors who stood to lose from several bank failures in the last year. That bailout cost the government an amount equivalent to about a fifth of gross domestic product. 
 Tension over a deteriorating economy is manifesting itself in various ways, including the actions of a mob of protesters at the University of Santo Domingo on Tuesday who pelted the windshields of vehicles in Mr. Mejia's motorcade with stones only to be chased away by bodyguards who fired more than 100 shots into the air in the protesters' direction. No one was seriously injured in the clash. 
 Mr. Mejia, an businessman known for his populist rhetoric, has shown little inclination to deal with pressing issues during his remaining days in office, preferring instead to reward political supporters. In one move in recent days, his administration said it was seeking to allow civil servants to buy automobiles without paying import duties.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Fernandez, a lawyer raised in the Bronx who served a previous term as president in the 1990's when the Dominican Republic was one of Latin America's fastest-growing countries, is under pressure from international creditors to rapidly come up with a cohesive plan for dealing with a string of costly bank failures and soaring prices for imported oil and natural gas. 
 In a sign that public finances are under increasing strain, the central bank missed a $27 million interest payment on an international bond two weeks ago. Outgoing officials at the central bank have declared their desire to make the payment within a 30-day grace period allowing the nation to technically avoid a default, but investors and analysts are growing skeptical about the government's ability to honor its obligations.
 ''It's an extremely acute situation,'' said Richard Francis, the primary credit analyst of the Dominican Republic at Standard & Poor's in New York. ''We think a default is a lot more likely than not at this point.''
 The prospect of a default is a remarkable turnaround for an economy that was considered a model for others in the Caribbean and Latin America as recently as two years ago. A multiyear burst of robust economic growth, driven by the establishment of export-oriented factories and a vibrant tourism sector, has come undone in the last year as officials responded poorly to difficulties in the banking and electricity industries.
 The Dominican economy shrank last year for the first time since 1990, contracting by nearly one percentage point, and is expected to shrink about the same amount this year. The country faces a financing gap estimated at $100 million to $200 million this year after the currency, the peso, tumbled in value more than 100 percent since last year, settling in at around 45 pesos to the dollar.
 The currency devaluation, in turn, heightened an exposure to foreign creditors, with debt in dollars ballooning to about 40 percent of gross domestic product from 20 percent. The country has nearly $6 billion in foreign debt after Mr. Mejia's government borrowed heavily during his first years in office, extending the dependence on foreign financing initiated under Mr. Fernandez's previous administration.
 A team from the International Monetary Fund arrived in Santo Domingo this week to assess the fragile state of the Dominican government's accounts. The fund suspended a $600 million aid package to the Dominican Republic last year after Mr. Mejia's administration stunned investors by effectively renationalizing an ailing electricity company controlled by Union Fenosa of Spain. 
 Fund officials are focusing on whether Mr. Fernandez, Mr. Mejia's successor, can quickly assemble a cabinet intent on pulling the nation out of its predicament, people involved in the negotiations said. Mr. Fernandez moved in that direction on Wednesday, naming economist Hector Valdez Albizu as the new president of the central bank, as well as appointing officials to economic posts overseeing tax collection and customs. 
 Mr. Fernandez has also already sought to shield the country from the effect of increasing oil prices, traveling to Venezuela last month in an attempt to persuade the government there to continue selling oil with preferential payment terms. The Dominican Republic, a nation of 8.8 million that occupies the island of Hispaniola with Haiti, imports nearly all of its fuel and has been hurt by surging oil prices. 
 Much of the damage to the economy, however, cannot easily be undone through shuttle diplomacy or by sending promising signals to multilateral lenders. Inflation has climbed to almost 50 percent from the single digits last year as the prices of many imported products skyrocketed. Economists here say the economy would be in even worse shape if not for remittances sent to relatives by Dominicans living in the United States and Europe. 
 ''Never before in this country was more poverty created in such a short time span, less than a year,'' Miguel Ceara-Hatton, an economist with the United Nations Development Program, said in an interview. 
 Investors appear to be pricing in some sort of reorganization of the Dominican Republic's foreign debt, with the country's dollar-denominated bonds trading at about 65 cents on the dollar, a level that indicates substantial wariness but not expectations of a chaotic, Argentina-style economic collapse. Earlier this year, government negotiators were able to reach an agreement with bilateral creditors in the Paris Club that allowed them to reschedule nearly $200 million of debt coming due in 2004. 
 That agreement, however, hinges on additional financing from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Mr. Fernandez seems to be bracing the country for at least some of the short-term economic medicine necessary for securing financing from multilateral lenders, throwing his support behind proposed tax reforms that would include a 20 percent excise tax on alcohol and tobacco, a 10 percent tax on phone services and a 16 percent tax on travel by plane or boat. 
 Some international officials are supporting more drastic measures. For instance, John Taylor, the undersecretary for international affairs at the Department of the Treasury, recently said the United States would provide technical assistance to the Dominican Republic if it chose to dollarize its economy, a move that would effectively replace the peso with the dollar as the currency while removing the central bank's authority to guide monetary policy. 
 It remains to be seen how Mr. Fernandez will react to such proposals, though analysts here believe he will do what he can to avert a default if Mr. Mejia's government fails to meet the interest payment on the nation's bonds before leaving office.
 ''You have to give condolences to the winner as well as the loser in the most recent election,'' said Bernardo Vega, a former Dominican ambassador to the United States and also a former president of the central bank. ''Nobody here wants a default, but the scenario is very challenging.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of the Dominican Republic are facing a deepening fiscal crisis. Maxima Prensa, left, ran a hair salon in Santo Domingo. Shortages idled most public transportation and caused long lines at fuel stations. (Photo by Walter Astrada/Associated Press, for The New York Times)
(Photo by Orlando Barria/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. W1)
 Leonel Fernandez, the incoming president of the Dominican Republic, faces a possible default. (Photo by Jason Szenes/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BANK FAILURES (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PROPANE (77%); GASOLINE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (72%); FOOD PRICES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); POWER FAILURES (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit

PERSON: Leonel Fernandez; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Dominican Republic 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



139 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Initial Jobless Claims Are Mixed; Analysts Await Report for July

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
The number of people signing up for unemployment benefits for the first time dropped last week, the Labor Department reported on Thursday.
 New applications for jobless benefits declined by a seasonally adjusted 11,000, to 336,000, in the week ended July 31. 
It was the lowest level since the beginning of July and was slightly better than analysts' expectations of about 340,000 for the week.
 The four-week moving average of jobless claims, which tends to smooth out weekly fluctuations, rose to 343,500 from 336,750.
 New claims have moved up and down in recent weeks, with much of the volatility linked to temporary shutdowns at auto plants to retool for new models. A year ago, weekly jobless claims stood at 399,000.
 The report also showed that the number of workers continuing to draw unemployment benefits declined by 35,000, to 2.91 million, in the week ended July 24, the most recent period that information was available. 
 While economic recovery has been on a solid path over most of the last few months, a job recovery has been spotty. 
 Economists, hopeful that job creation picked up in July, are forecasting payrolls to grow by about 247,000, which would be an improvement from the 112,000 jobs added in June. The Labor Department is to release the employment report for July this morning. 
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said in Congressional testimony last month that although businesses remained cautious, he expected hiring to improve somewhat in the months ahead.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Jobless Claims''Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time from Feb. - July 2004.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); NEW CAR MODELS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); TESTIMONY (65%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



140 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: OVERSEAS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Europe Takes New Alerts With Grain of Salt

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Britain aside, the response in Europe to the latest announcement of terror threats in the United States has ranged from official calm to unofficial cynicism. 
 Since the Bush administration raised the terror alert to orange for five financial targets in and around New York and Washington, European governments have left their risk assessments unchanged. 
 Although British officials have arrested a dozen suspected Islamic militants, the possible links between those arrests and the American terror alerts remain unclear.
 And while Germany, France and Britain have all confirmed that they remained on high alert, as they have been since coordinated train bombings in Madrid killed 191 people on March 11, they said their national intelligence services had unearthed nothing to suggest that terror attacks on European soil were more likely than before. 
 In a measure of how little the latest alerts raised concern in Europe, the European Union's counterterrorism director, Gijs de Vries, remained on vacation.
 ''If there were a crisis, we would adapt our security situation, but for the moment that is not considered necessary,'' said Isabel Schmitt-Falckenberg, a spokeswoman at the German Interior Ministry. 
 A spokesman for the British Home Office echoed her comment, saying, ''the threat is continuous and high, but unchanged,'' and France's national police service said the country's security forces were operating under the same instructions put in place after the Madrid attacks. 
 Some European counterterrorism experts have said that a highly publicized threat three months ahead of the presidential elections on Nov. 2 needed special scrutiny. 
 Rolf Tophoven, director of Germany's Institute for Terrorism Research and Security Policy, said: ''You shouldn't forget that there is an election campaign and that in times of crisis people tend to rally around the incumbent government. This is not a bad thing for Bush.'' 
 Mr. Tophoven criticized the ''inflation of terror warnings'' in the United States, saying it risks desensitizing Americans at home and distracting the world from more imminent terrorist targets elsewhere. 
 ''You have to ask how credible and serious this latest threat really is ,'' he said. ''The danger is that repeated warnings are counterproductive in terms of people's sensibility to terrorism. And the U.S. must watch out so as to not miss the real terror hot spot.'' 
 Much likelier targets than American territory are Muslim countries that have been America's allies, he said, pointing to Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, where several arrests of suspected Qaeda agents have been made in recent months. Europe, with its open borders and extensive train network, also appears to be more vulnerable than the United States, Mr. Tophoven said. 
 ''Since Madrid we have a heightened risk level in Europe, and the attacks on Christian targets in Iraq was the most recent warning signal,'' he said. ''For militant Islamists, Rome is the center of heresy.'' 
 Rome, with the Vatican enclave within its walls and as the seat of a government that has supported the Bush administration in the invasion of Iraq, has received threats from militant Islamists at least twice. On Sunday, the Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades, which claim links to Al Qaeda, threatened attacks in Rome unless Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi withdraws Italy's 2,700 troops from Iraq within two weeks. About 4,000 Italian soldiers have been brought in to protect Rome's ancient sites alongside police forces. A security source told Reuters that vigilance would remain at ''a very high'' level around St. Peter's Basilica at the Vatican. 
 In Germany, the risk level remains ''very high'' for American and British nationals as well as for Jews living in or visiting Germany, and ''high'' for Germans and others. French security forces remained on ''high'' alert across the country and ''very high'' alert at airports and major train stations, a police spokesman said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A British police officer guarded an arrival hall in Terminal 1 at London's Heathrow airport after a warning about a possible terrorist attack. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); RELIGION (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (61%) Terrorism; Public Opinion; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) European Union

PERSON: Katrin Bennhold

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Great Britain; France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



141 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Rebel Cleric Leads Uprising That Kills American Marine
The radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr called for a national uprising against American and allied forces, then backed off near midnight. The heaviest fighting occurred mainly in Najaf, where one American marine and several insurgents were killed. A Marine helicopter was shot down there as well, but the crew members were evacuated safely. A1

John C. Danforth, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, said that he hoped an international protection force could be in place in Iraq next month to permit the United Nations to return to Baghdad, but he acknowledged that finding countries willing to participate was proving difficult and frustrating. A8

Europe Yawns at Threat Level
The response in Europe, Britain aside, to the latest announcement of terror threats in the United States has ranged from official calm to unofficial cynicism. In a measure of how little the latest alerts raised concern, the European Union's counterterrorism director, Gijs de Vries, remained on vacation. A9

Tentative Pullout in Gaza Strip
The Israeli military pulled back its forces in the northern Gaza Strip after a five-week operation intended to stop Palestinian rocket fire. Within hours, Palestinians fired at least six rockets. All landed in fields, causing no damage or injuries. A3

Warnings from Georgian Leader
President Mikhail Saakashvili of Georgia warned the White House that Russia was trying to assert greater control over his country, a former republic of the old Soviet Union. Despite rising tensions, he said he would seek to resolve differences with Moscow peacefully. A3

False Evidence Out of Sudan
The 50 prisoners that Sudan's government lined up at a jail recently and offered as evidence to the world that it was cracking down on militias have turned out to be mostly petty criminals who had already been in jail as long as four years. A1

ESCAPES F1-12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Black Inmates Linked to AIDS
Black women living in the South, infected through heterosexual sex with former prison inmates, underscore a complex domestic issue: the link between high rates of imprisonment among African-Americans and high rates of H.I.V. and AIDS. A1

Radiation Belt Circles Saturn
The Cassini spacecraft, in its first month orbiting Saturn, detected a new radiation belt inside the inner edge of the planet's signature disk of luminous rings. A15

NATIONAL A12-17

Man in Custody Is Thought To Have Supervised Plot
A suspected terrorist in custody in Britain directed the surveillance of financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington during 2000 and 2001 and prepared the detailed reports about them that have prompted fears of a terrorist attack. A1

Chicago Arrest in Bomb Plot
Law enforcement officials arrested a man who they say was plotting to blow up the Everett M. Dirksen Federal Building with a truck bomb containing ammonium nitrate fertilizer, the material used in the Oklahoma City bombing. A10

Provisional Voting Questioned
Failures in carrying out a new form of voting designed to ensure that more votes are counted could end up disenfranchising voters instead, elections officials say. A1

Leads in Anthrax Search
An upstate New York home and a Jersey Shore cottage owned by a doctor and self-described bioterrorism expert were searched by federal agents investigating the deadly 2001 anthrax attacks, but there was no apparent breakthrough in the long-running case. A10

Tactics to Combat Truck Bombs
Growing concerns about truck bombs have prompted the authorities in California to look with new interest at a three-year-old invention designed to disable big rigs hijacked by terrorists, but which critics dismiss as flawed and too costly. A10

Senator Cited as Source of Leak
An investigation into how news organizations obtained classified intercepted messages has found that Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican and former member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, was almost certainly a source. A11

OBITUARIES B7

Virginia Grey
An actress who made her debut in 1927 at the age of 10 as Little Eva in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin,'' she was 87. B7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

2 Albany Mosque Leaders Arrested in Sting Operation
Two Muslim men in Albany were charged in a government sting operation, accused of taking part in what they thought was a plot to import a shoulder-fired missile and assassinate a Pakistani diplomat in New York City. B1

Liability in Ferry Crash
The city's financial fortunes are closely tied to the fate of its former ferry manager, whom prosecutors have identified as one of two main culprits in the fatal crash of a Staten Island ferry last fall. B1

Surgery on Twins Was Tricky
Doctors who separated conjoined twins at a Manhattan hospital discovered, after 10 hours of grueling surgery, that the boys' brains were fused, not just pressed together and linked by veins. B1

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

WEEKEND E1-28; E29-36

Avoiding G.O.P., 2 Shows Close
Two Broadway shows, ''Caroline, or Change,'' and ''Frozen,'' cited poor ticket sales during the week of the Republican National Convention and announced that they would close to avoid a dismal week of business. Last week the producers of ''Little Shop of Horrors'' announced that it would close on Aug. 22. B2

Londoner to Lead Carnegie Hall
Clive Gillinson, managing director of the London Symphony Orchestra since 1984, was appointed executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall. He succeeds Robert J. Harth, who ran the hall from September 2001 until his death, at age 47, on Jan. 30. B2

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Halliburton Fraud Claimed
Four former finance employees at the Halliburton Company contend that a high-level and systemic accounting fraud occurred at the company between 1998 and 2001, according to a new filing in a class-action lawsuit on behalf of investors. C1

Medical Recall Expands
The Boston Scientific Corporation said that it was expanding the recall of some of its drug-coated stents to include 3,000 more of the devices, pushing the company's share price down more than 6 percent. C1

G.M. to Recall Saturn Vues
General Motors will recall Saturn Vue sport utility vehicles made since 2001 after their poor performance during federal rollover tests. The company will also issue a new type of bond to address accounting changes. C1

Stock Indicators Decline
All three of the stock market's main gauges fell 1.6 percent or more as the high price of oil and new data on retail sales raised doubts about the outlook for economic growth. C5

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Washington's gift to bomb makers; ocean rescue; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Henri Cartier-Bresson; close encounters in Electionland.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E36
TV Listings E28
Public Lives B2
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); PRISONS (86%); ARRESTS (86%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); EVIDENCE (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); AIDS & HIV (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); SPACECRAFT (65%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (64%); MISDEMEANORS (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) SATURN (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SUDAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GEORGIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



142 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofit Hospital Agrees To Limits on Patient Fees

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The nation's largest rural hospital system agreed yesterday to provide almost free care to low-income people who lack medical insurance in Mississippi and two other states. 
 The deal drew fire from the American Hospital Association, which has denounced as baseless the volley of lawsuits filed against nonprofit hospitals by Richard Scruggs, who brought the global class-action case against tobacco companies. Given the association's opposition, it is unclear how many of the nation's 3,000 other nonprofit hospitals might reach similar agreements.
 If all were to adopt similar agreements, millions of uninsured Americans could seek hospital care for illnesses and injuries that now go untreated. At the same time, the record number of individual bankruptcies, now 1.5 million annually, could be reduced because hospital and medical bills are a factor in half of those filings. 
 Mr. Scruggs praised North Mississippi Health Systems in Tupelo, Miss., whose six hospitals and numerous clinics had $1.1 billion of gross revenue last year, and which signed the agreement to resolve the issue without being sued. He called the settlement ''a responsible resolution to the crisis in uninsured health care.'' 
 A lawsuit was filed yesterday in Federal District Court in Aberdeen, Miss., so that the settlement could be approved by a federal judge. The judge will determine later how much will be paid to Mr. Scruggs and other lawyers. 
 Dick Davidson, president of the American Hospital Association, of which the Mississippi system is a member, said, ''It is not clear why a hospital that had not been sued has reached a settlement.''
 Mr. Scruggs said he hoped the deal would set a pattern for settlements with hospitals in 21 states that he and a coalition of lawyers have accused in lawsuits of not providing enough free or low-cost care to justify their tax-exempt status. But the Hospital Association said that it was mystified that the North Mississippi hospitals had agreed to the deal. 
 Under the deal, families of four with annual income of up to $36,000, twice the poverty level, would pay $10 a visit for hospital, clinic and outpatient services. The deal does not affect bills from doctors who admit patients to the hospitals but are not employees of the hospital system. Separate doctor bills, however, are a minority of the cost of hospital visits. 
 Families with incomes of up to $72,000, four times the official federal poverty level, would get discounts of 15 percent to 50 percent off the rates that the hospitals charge Medicare, the federal program for people over 65 years of age. Most hospitals charge uninsured patients more than they charge people with their own health insurance or those covered by Medicare and Medicaid, the medical assistance program for low-income people. 
 Yesterday's agreement also bars the hospital system from placing liens on the homes of those covered by the agreement, from charging interest or from seeking payments exceeding 10 percent of family income. 
 Patients treated in the last three years could have their bills reduced or erased, and if they paid their bills, they could get money back, Mr. Scruggs said. 
 He estimated the value of the agreement at $150 million over 10 years, or about $1,000 a patient in Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee currently using the North Mississippi system and meeting the income requirements. 
 Neither he nor the hospital system would discuss the likely increase in demand for hospital and clinic services that could result. The agreement provides, however, that if demand for care rises so much that it endangers the North Mississippi system's financial health, it can ask a federal judge to approve changes. 
 The agreement also requires the hospital system to inform patients of the new standards. A survey four years ago by the Access Project at Brandeis University found that 48 percent of poor people said they were never told they could get financial help from nonprofit hospitals.
 Mark Rukavina, executive director of the Access Project, which is working to expand the availability of health care, was enthusiastic. ''For millions of Americans this is enormously important,'' he said. 
 Mr. Rukavina said that he suspected that North Mississippi executives had retained economic and marketing experts who concluded that the cost of the deal, including serving more people for free, would be modest. 
 ''They probably concluded that given how little they collect, the cost was not all that much,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (98%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); RURAL HEALTH (78%); SMOKING (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LAWYERS (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); TAX LAW (66%); APPROVALS (66%) Medicine and Health; Suits and Litigation; Hospitals; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Smoking and Tobacco; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Legal Profession

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (84%) North Mississippi Health Systems; American Hospital Assn

PERSON: David Cay Johnston; Richard Scruggs

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Alabama; Tennessee

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



143 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Jets Say Stadium Plans Are Good for the City

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEZIN JONES; Charles V. Bagli contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
As he helped usher in the Jets new season at the squad's annual kick-off luncheon, the team president, Jay Cross, invoked an anecdote yesterday pulled from the team's colorful past.
 He told an audience of players, coaches and city and business leaders who gathered at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel that in the early 1960's, when the team was called the Titans and played its games at the Polo Grounds, officials from the rival Giants would raid the parking lot and slash tires to discourage those who attended the games from coming back.
 To robust laughter from the audience, Cross joked that he had found solace in the fact that despite the controversy surrounding the team's plans to build a new stadium on Manhattan's West Side -- he singled out by name the opposition led by the family of James L. Dolan, which controls Madison Square Garden -- at least it had not devolved to tire slashing. 
 But, Cross dead-panned, he had taken to asking someone to start his car. 
 However apocryphal the old Giants story was, and however much humor Cross intended, the moment underscored the contentiousness surrounding the stadium issue and its importance to team executives as the Jets prepare for a season filled with high expectations on and off the field.
 From coaches and players, there was talk yesterday of rebounding from the dreary 6-10 record of last season and making the playoffs for the third time in four seasons. 
 And from Cross and the team owner, Woody Johnson, came a spirited defense of the stadium proposal in which they blamed public opposition on bad publicity and what they said were misrepresentations of its benefits to the public. 
 At a news conference after the luncheon, Cross said that discussions over plans for the 75,000-seat stadium, which would also be used as a convention center and would be built with $600 million in taxpayer money, did not fully account for the amount of money that the stadium would generate for the city through tax revenues.
 ''If you say, 'The sports and convention center will generate enough revenue to more than cover the public investment; do you support it?' New Yorkers say, 'Yes,''' Cross said.
 He was alluding to a poll released last month by Quinnipiac University that found although three quarters of city voters disapproved of using public money to build a stadium, slightly more than half would support the effort if the stadium generated enough money to cover its cost. 
 ''The debate is purely, like, 'Do you put a $600 million subsidy into a sports team,' which is not even true,'' Cross said. ''You know, it poisons the debate. It's not a rational debate at that point.''
 Although estimates of how much economic benefit the city would derive from the stadium each year vary widely, Cross said that the figure would range from the $50 million cited in some analyses to the more than $70 million projected by the Jets.
 ''No matter which way you slice or dice it,'' he said, ''we're going to make a nice comfortable profit each and every year as a result of this investment. 
 ''It's not like we're going into the bank and taking $600 million out of another budget. It's creating revenue. That's the whole principle behind economic development, whether it's a convention center or a hotel or a new district. If you gain more out than you put in, you're creating new revenue for the city.''
 Earlier yesterday, the Jets brought Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago to a breakfast in Manhattan where he expounded on the social and economic benefits of his city's newly rebuilt Soldier Field, while praising the Jets for planning to go ''beyond what we did.''
 ''Soldier Field is a good example of how a major city can build major projects to improve the quality of life,'' Daley told business executives at a forum sponsored by the Association for a Better New York. ''Soldier Field contributed to the economic vitality of the area, and it became part of a larger plan to revitalize the lakefront.''
 Johnson repeated those points during a news conference after the team luncheon.
 ''Real estate values go up, development goes up, pride of the city goes up, transportation improves,'' he said, enumerating what he felt would be the impact of a West Side stadium.
 ''We're trying to move it forward, and a lot of people agree with us,'' Johnson continued. ''It'll be transforming in a very positive way.''
 When asked whether as a relative newcomer to sports ownership, having purchased the Jets in 2000, he was surprised by the intensity surrounding the stadium debate, Johnson said simply: ''I'm not surprised -- at all. It's New York.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); VANDALISM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JAMES L DOLAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



144 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: What About Iraq?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A funny thing happened after the United States transferred sovereignty over Iraq. On the ground, things didn't change, except for the worse.
 But as Matthew Yglesias of The American Prospect puts it, the cosmetic change in regime had the effect of ''Afghanizing'' the media coverage of Iraq.
 He's referring to the way news coverage of Afghanistan dropped off sharply after the initial military defeat of the Taliban. A nation we had gone to war to liberate and had promised to secure and rebuild -- a promise largely broken -- once again became a small, faraway country of which we knew nothing. 
 Incredibly, the same thing happened to Iraq after June 28. Iraq stories moved to the inside pages of newspapers, and largely off TV screens. Many people got the impression that things had improved. Even journalists were taken in: a number of newspaper stories asserted that the rate of U.S. losses there fell after the handoff. (Actual figures: 42 American soldiers died in June, and 54 in July.)
 The trouble with this shift of attention is that if we don't have a clear picture of what's actually happening in Iraq, we can't have a serious discussion of the options that remain for making the best of a very bad situation.
 The military reality in Iraq is that there has been no letup in the insurgency, and large parts of the country seem to be effectively under the control of groups hostile to the U.S.-supported government. 
 In the spring, American forces won an impressive military victory against the Shiite forces of Moktada al-Sadr. But this victory hasn't curbed the movement; Mr. Sadr's forces, according to many reports, are the de facto government of Sadr City, a Baghdad slum with 2.5 million people, and seem to have strengthened their position in Najaf and other cities.
 In Sunni areas, Falluja is enemy territory. Elsewhere in western Iraq, according to reports from Knight Ridder and The Los Angeles Times, U.S. forces have hunkered down, manning watch posts but not patrolling. In effect, this cedes control of the population to the insurgents. And everywhere, of course, the mortar attacks, bombings, kidnappings and assassinations go on.
 Despite a two-month truce between Mr. Sadr and the United States military, heavy fighting broke out yesterday in Najaf, where a U.S. helicopter was shot down. There was also sporadic violence in Sadr City -- where, according to reporters, American planes appeared to drop bombs -- and in Basra.
 Meanwhile, reconstruction has languished.
 This summer, like last summer, there are severe shortages of electricity. Sewage is tainting the water supply, and typhoid and hepatitis are on the rise. Unemployment remains sky-high. Needless to say, all this undermines any chance for the new Iraqi government to gain wide support.
 My point in describing all this bad news is not to be defeatist. It is to set some realistic context for the political debate.
 One thing is clear: calls to ''stay the course'' are fatuous. The course we're on leads downhill. American soldiers keep winning battles, but we're losing the war: our military is under severe strain; we're creating more terrorists than we're killing; our reputation, including our moral authority, is damaged each month this goes on. 
 So am I saying we should cut and run? That's another loaded phrase. Nobody wants to see helicopters lifting the last Americans off the roofs of the Green Zone.
 But we need to move quickly to end our position as ''an occupying power in a bitterly hostile land,'' the fate that none other than former President George H.W. Bush correctly warned could be the result of an invasion of Iraq. And that means turning real power over to Iraqis.
 Again and again since the early months after the fall of Baghdad -- when Paul Bremer III canceled local elections in order to keep the seats warm for our favorite exiles -- U.S. officials have passed up the chance to promote credible Iraqi leaders. And each time the remaining choices get worse.
 Yet we're still doing it. Ayad Allawi is, probably, something of a thug. Still, it's in our interests that he succeed.
 But when Mr. Allawi proposed an amnesty for insurgents -- a move that was obviously calculated to show that he wasn't an American puppet -- American officials, probably concerned about how it would look at home, stepped in to insist that insurgents who have killed Americans be excluded. Inevitably, this suggestion that American lives matter more than Iraqi lives led to an unraveling of the whole thing, so Mr. Allawi now looks like a puppet.
 Should we cut and run? No. But we should get realistic, and look in earnest for an exit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); TALIBAN (76%); WRITERS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (50%); HEPATITIS (50%) Television; News and News Media; Public Opinion; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



145 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: 2 Albany Men Are Arrested in Plot to Import a Missile and Kill a Diplomat

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU and JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Eric Lichtblau reported for this article from Washington and James C. McKinley Jr. from Albany. Al Baker contributed reporting from Albany.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Two leaders of a mosque in Albany have been arrested in a government sting operation on charges that they took part in what they thought was a plot to import a shoulder-fired missile and assassinate a Pakistani diplomat in New York City, law enforcement officials said on Thursday.
 Officials charged that the two leaders, Mohammed M. Hossain and Yassin M. Aref, conspired with a man who claimed to have ties to Islamic terrorists in laundering $50,000 in payments for a Chinese missile that he showed them. In fact, the contact turned out to be an undercover informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the RPG-7 missile was a disabled weapon owned by the federal government.
 The sting operation, similar to past undercover efforts in Newark, San Diego and Houston involving black-market missile and weapons sales, reflected the Justice Department's increasingly aggressive attempts to identify and infiltrate groups that it suspects may offer support to terrorists. 
 Deputy Attorney General James Comey said that while the arrests were not ''the crime of the century,'' they do send a message ''to anyone considering terrorist activity'' that they could be dealing with undercover agents. ''We really do want the bad guys to worry that anybody they deal with might be one of our people,'' he said in announcing the Albany arrests. 
 But some Arab-American leaders said they were concerned that Mr. Hossain, 49, and Mr. Aref, 34, may have been victims of ethnic profiling and entrapment in the government's campaign against terrorism.
 ''There's always a concern that people may be targeted for a sting operation like this solely because they are Muslims,'' said Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations in Washington. ''It's a perplexing case, and the question we have is whether the government got these men to do something they otherwise wouldn't have done.''
 Mr. Comey said he expected that a defense lawyer would likely charge that the government had entrapped the two men into committing illegal acts, but he said he was not worried that such a defense would hold up in court. 
 Law enforcement officials said the two men were the subject of a long-running intelligence investigation into suspected ties to extremist groups overseas, including Ansar al-Islam, a militant Iraqi group with links to Al Qaeda. Officials would give no details of the pair's purported ties to Ansar al-Islam but said prosecutors would likely present information about their overseas dealings in federal court in Albany on Tuesday, when a judge considers whether they should be detained pending trial.
 In Albany, relatives, friends and acquaintances of both men insisted they were innocent. Mr. Hossain, a native of Bangladesh who owns a popular pizza parlor in downtown Albany, is one of the founders of the Masjid as-Salam Mosque in Albany, and he recruited Mr. Aref, a Kurd from Iraq, to be the imam of the mosque, officials said.
 The two men were arrested in a raid by federal and local agents that began Wednesday night after an investigation that lasted more than a year, officials said. Looking tired and dazed, they were escorted into a federal courtroom in Albany on Thursday afternoon by United States marshals while their wives and friends filled the benches, shoulder to shoulder with dozens of journalists. Both defendants had full beards and wore traditional Muslim tunics.
 The wives of the two men wept quietly as the hearing proceeded. One member of the mosque, Sajid Ahmed, 32, a native of India who has lived in Albany for 25 years, said that Mr. Hossain and Mr. Aref were religious people who regularly attended prayers at the mosque and that their arrests had shocked many of their fellow worshipers.
 Mr. Ahmed said the idea of Mr. Hossain being involved in an anti-American terrorist plot seemed odd. Mr. Hossain told his friends he loved America and kept an American flag in his restaurant. He was also well known for giving to the poor, in keeping with his Muslim beliefs, Mr. Ahmed said.
 ''It was very surprising to me,'' Mr. Ahmed said. ''I think they were being nice to some other people and they got entrapped in this case.''
 But Gov. George E. Pataki pointed to the arrests as evidence that federal, state and local authorities are actively trying to prevent terrorist attacks.
 ''The fact is there are terrorists among us who want to engage in acts to attack us again and to take away our freedom,'' he said. ''I just want to reassure the public here in Albany and in New York and across America that our government, our administration in Washington, this state government and local officials are taking this threat to our freedom very seriously.''
 Documents filed in the case say that Mr. Hossain first approached the government's confidential informer in the case in the summer of 2003 because Mr. Hossain wanted his help in getting a fraudulent state driver's permit for his brother. The two discussed religion, politics ''and different types of jihad,'' according to the criminal complaint in the case, although Mr. Hossain also said that ''now was not the time for violent jihad.'' They also discussed ways of making money from jihad, prosecutors said, and Mr. Hossain asked the informant for a loan.
 The relationship led to numerous meetings and conversations in the coming months, many of which took place in Mr. Hossain's pizzeria and were tape-recorded by the informant, the government said. 
 In one meeting at the informant's business last November, the informant showed Mr. Hossain a shoulder-fired, surface-to-air missile and later told him that he imported such weapons from China to provide to his ''brother mujahidiin,'' the complaint said.
 With Mr. Aref's participation, the men arranged a scheme to launder cash from missile sales and possibly make it appear as if the money were generated from Mr. Hossain's rental properties, the government said. As part of the plan, the government said, the informant gave Mr. Hossain and Mr. Aref $40,000 in cash that he claimed were the proceeds from the missile importation, and he received $25,000 in checks made payable to his own business. 
 In separate meetings in January and February, the complaint said, the informant told Mr. Aref and Mr. Hossain that he was working for an Islamic extremist group in Pakistan called Jaish-e-Mohammed and that he was sending the shoulder-fired missile to New York City to use against the Pakistani ambassador in retaliation for Pakistan's support of the United States. 
 But in fact, Mr. Comey said, the plot was a ruse from the start. The two men were charged with concealing material support for terrorism, which carries a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison, and participating in a money-laundering conspiracy, with a maximum of 20 years, officials said.
 According to property records, the mosque on Central Avenue in Albany is owned by the North American Islamic Trust. Prosecutors and federal law enforcement agents on Thursday did not address the issue of who owned the mosque, and it remained unclear whether that was why they targeted it.
 But the Albany area came under the scrutiny of federal investigators after 9/11. A man named Ali Mounnes Yaghi, a Jordanian immigrant and also an Albany pizzeria owner, who, according to The Times-Union newspaper, in Albany, helped establish a mosque on Central Avenue, was questioned about the attacks. He was later cleared of being linked to terrorism and deported, the newspaper reported.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mohammed M. Hossain, left, and Yassin M. Aref face federal charges. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Two leaders of the Masjid as-Salam Mosque in Albany were arrested late Wednesday in a federal sting operation involving weapons purchases.
Gov. George E. Pataki and Albany's mayor, Jerry Jennings, yesterday. (Photographs by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)
 James Comey, a deputy attorney general, announced the Albany arrests in Washington yesterday. Left, Mohammed M. Hossain in Albany. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARAB AMERICANS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ENTRAPMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); RACIAL PROFILING (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); LAWYERS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%) Terrorism; Entrapment, Legal; Arab-Americans; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Discrimination; Terrorism; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%) Federal Bureau of Investigation

PERSON: Eric Lichtblau; James C Jr Mckinley; Yassin M Aref; Mohammed Hossain

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (93%) Albany (NY); Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



146 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 3401 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''ANCHORMAN,'' starring Will Ferrell and Christina Applegate. Directed by Adam McKay (PG-13, 91 minutes). Neither as crazy as ''Old School'' nor as charming as ''Elf,'' this extended comedy sketch (directed by a former ''Saturday Night Live'' head writer) will nonetheless satisfy, for now, the national hunger for Mr. Ferrell's special brand of goofiness. This time he plays Ron Burgundy, a San Diego newsman whose supremacy is threatened by the arrival of a woman (Ms. Applegate) who becomes his rival, his love interest and, of course, his straight man. The movie's ideas are none too fresh -- the crazy sideburns and ugly neckties of the 1970's will yield only so much hilarity -- but there is a reasonably high quotient of funny jokes and off-the-wall, nutty gags, including a street fight among rival news teams as amusing for its movie-star cameos as for its brutal slapstick (A. O. Scott).

* ''BEFORE SUNSET,'' starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Directed by Richard Linklater (R, 80 minutes). Nine years after parting, in Vienna, at the end of ''Before Sunrise,'' Jesse (Mr. Hawke) and Celine (Ms. Delpy) rediscover each other in Paris and relive their brief encounter. This time it is even briefer: the film unfolds, without skipping a minute, in the hour or so before Jesse must catch a plane home to New York, and all those minutes are filled with looping, self-conscious talk as the reunited lovers wander along the Seine. Their intimacy is tinged with nostalgic regret. The airy sense of freedom that they shared in their early 20's has given way to the resignation of adulthood, even as they meander toward a second chance. The liberating sweetness of the earlier movie has mellowed into a saltier, sadder flavor, but Mr. Linklater, one of our most literate and intelligent directors, has not talked himself out of the possibility of romance, and the movie's relaxed, discursive structure is dense with implied feeling and oblique drama (Scott).

* ''THE BOURNE SUPREMACY,'' starring Matt Damon, Franka Potente, Brian Cox and Julia Stiles. Directed by Paul Greengrass (PG-13; 120 minutes). It may sound odd to call a chilly paranoid thriller entertainment comfort food. But in the wake of 9/11 this globe-trotting post-cold war melodrama full of standard cloak-and-dagger intrigue has the reassuring aroma of a home-cooked meal. There are no jihads or terrorists in sight and no apocalyptic scenarios, only dirty little secrets, as spies and counterspies from Russia and America tangle in a grubby story involving oil, sold secrets, murders and cover-ups. In this sequel to ''The Bourne Identity,'' many of the major hands who created the first film have returned, including Mr. Damon as Jason Bourne, the C.I.A.-trained assassin who still has serious memory problems and can't recall why he is being hunted by everybody, although blurry flashbacks leave him with clues. As before, he spends almost the entire movie on the run. The thriller reminds you that rhythms of film editing and collage-making have allowed Hollywood to make the chase movie a surefire format. Plot and character ultimately don't matter much in a film that's all about building and sustaining a mood in which visceral and emotional rhythms are blended into a high-gloss thrill ride (Stephen Holden).

''CATWOMAN,'' starring Halle Berry, Benjamin Bratt and Sharon Stone. Directed by Pitof (PG-13, 110 minutes). Ms. Berry, doing her utmost to persuade the Academy to take back her Oscar, plays Patience, a flighty would-be artist who is bumped off after she uncovers the nefarious corporate secrets of a cosmetics company. Brought to life by feline mouth-to-mouth, she acquires interesting cat powers and cat behaviors, and begins eating tuna straight out of the can, stealing jewels and carrying a whip. Mr. Bratt is the upright, studly cop who serves as her obligatory love interest, and Ms. Stone is her icy rival. There is a diverting element of campy, kinky sexuality in this mess, and lots of bright colors and stroboscopic editing effects. In the end, though, you might find yourself thinking back fondly on ''Garfield'' (Scott).

''A CINDERELLA STORY,'' starring Hilary Duff. Directed by Mark Rosman (PG, 97 minutes). If adolescent rebellion were channeled toward a useful cause, the tweener audience for ''A Cinderella Story'' and for the recent ''Sleepover'' would march en masse to Hollywood to protest the cynicism, sloppiness and condescension of the toxic fantasies being hurled at them. Set in the San Fernando Valley, ''A Cinderella Story'' strains to bend the classic fairy tale to accommodate another coarse high school comedy of air-headed teenage vixens ganging up on a meek little angel. Samantha (the talent-challenged Ms. Duff), or ''Diner Girl,'' as she's jeeringly labeled, is a pariah because she drives a battered old car and toils like a slave in her evil stepmother's hideous pink-painted diner. That stepmother (Jennifer Coolidge), who suggests a nightmarish hybrid of Zsa Zsa Gabor and Tammy Faye Bakker, is a greasy-looking sexpot manque. The resident Prince Charming (Chad Michael Murray) is the courtly captain of the football team, student council president and closet poet. Even for a fairy tale, ''A Cinderella Story'' fails to make sense (Holden).

''DE-LOVELY,'' starring Kevin Kline and Ashley Judd. Directed by Irwin Winkler (PG-13, 125 minutes). Unfolding as a bumpy, muddled ''This Is Your Life'' series of confusing, overcrowded tableaus, the new Cole Porter biography gives you the creepy sense of watching adult children (with the singular exception of Mr. Kline, who can surmount any disaster) dressed up in period costume at a school pageant. Although its publicity goes out of its way to pat the movie on the back for its supposed candor about Porter's homosexuality, the film's attitude toward sex is dainty. The heat in a film about the man who wrote ''Too Darn Hot'' remains a steady, air-conditioned 68 degrees. It can't imagine a wealthy, sophisticated couple marrying for friendship and social advantage without that arrangement involving torment and guilt over its lack of sex. Some two dozen Porter songs are glossed by contemporary singers like Elvis Costello (''Let's Misbehave''), Sheryl Crow (''Begin the Beguine'') and Diana Krall (''Just One of Those Things''). If they're not awful, these labored interpretations are undercut by flimsy period arrangements (Holden).

* ''THE DOOR IN THE FLOOR,'' starring Jeff Bridges, Kim Basinger and Jon Foster. Written and directed by Tod Williams (R, 111 minutes). Avoiding the traps of sentimentality and overdone whimsy that lie in wait for adaptors of John Irving's fiction, Mr. Williams has made a version of ''A Widow for One Year'' that is better than the book. Mr. Foster plays Eddie, a prep school student who spends a long, eventful summer working as an assistant to Ted Cole (Mr. Bridges), a famous writer and illustrator of children's books. Ted and his wife, Marion (Ms. Basinger), are still grieving over the loss of their two sons in a car accident years before, and their marriage is falling apart. All of this might have made maudlin, precious melodrama -- especially when Eddie and Marion begin their affair -- but rather than emphasize the plot, Mr. Williams makes it a relaxed, roomy landscape for the characters to roam around in. The cast rises above the occasional implausibility of the material, and the movie is funny, touching and understated. It is dominated by Mr. Bridges's performance, one of the finest pieces of screen acting by an American man so far this year, a heroically life-size portrait of wounded narcissism and masculine need (Scott).

* ''FAHRENHEIT 9/11,'' written and directed by Michael Moore (R, 116 minutes). Mixing sober outrage with mischievous humor and blithely trampling the boundary between documentary and demagoguery, Mr. Moore takes wholesale aim at the Bush administration, whose tenure has been distinguished, in Mr. Moore's view, by unparalleled and unmitigated arrogance, mendacity and incompetence. Of course your estimation of the movie will depend largely on whether you share his view, but this unabashedly partisan collage of interviews, archival video clips and Mr. Moore's trademark agitprop stunts is nonetheless his most disciplined and powerful film. Mr. Moore is a prodigious talker and a wily showman, but he is also a good listener, and when he visits his hometown, Flint, Mich., to speak to the mother of a marine killed in Iraq, the film achieves an eloquence that its most determined critics will have a hard time dismissing. The movie's cheap shots and inconsistencies may frustrate its admirers, but by now we should have learned to appreciate Mr. Moore for what he is. He is rarely subtle, often impolite, frequently tendentious and sometimes self-contradictory. He is also a credit to the Republic (Scott).

* ''GARDEN STATE,'' starring Zach Braff, Natalie Portman and Peter Sarsgaard. Written and directed by Mr. Braff (R, 102 minutes). This small, smart, off-kilter comedy has the cheek to present itself as ''The Graduate 2004,'' although its affectionate subversion of a popular classic also stamps it as ''The Anti-Graduate 2004.'' From its story of the waking up of an emotionally numbed young man (Mr. Braff) to its editorial use of a contemporary pop soundtrack, the movie obsessively refers to that 1967 generational landmark. The New Jersey suburban landscape to which Andrew, Mr. Braff's 26-year-old alter ego, returns from self-imposed exile in Los Angeles is a universe apart from the lotus land where he has lived for the last nine years in a chemical stupor. Because ''The Graduate'' established the stock vision of suburban alienation that has persisted through ''American Beauty'' and beyond, you expect ''Garden State'' to uphold the cliche. Instead, it allows Andrew to discover some nuggets of spiritual gold in the East Coast wasteland he dreaded revisiting. As precocious filmmaking debuts tend to be, ''Garden State'' is too self-conscious by half, but its struggle to revitalize a cliche by turning it inside out is a worthy one (Holden).

''HAROLD AND KUMAR GO TO WHITE CASTLE,'' starring John Cho and Kal Penn. Directed by Danny Leiner (R, 87 minutes). This stoner, gross-out comedy has one foot here and one foot there. The here is a politically savvy universe where the title characters, 22-year-old New Jersey roommates who are Asian-American (Mr. Cho) and Indian-American (Mr. Penn), puncture ethnic stereotypes. The other foot is rutted knee-deep in the muck of perpetual puerility according to Hollywood. The movie is a sub-sub-''After Hours'' odyssey in which the title characters, while stoned on a Friday night, catch a galloping case of the munchies from a television ad for White Castle burgers and embark on an all-night search through the wilds of New Jersey for the nearest outlet. Along the way the pair are menaced by a gang of extreme sports punks, a rabid raccoon and a computer-generated cougar they use as a getaway horse. Surviving one mishap after another, the pair finally arrive by hang-glider at their junk food shrine. The chemistry between the two is as old as Abbott and Costello (Holden).

''A HOME AT THE END OF THE WORLD,'' starring Colin Farrell, Dallas Roberts, Sissy Spacek and Robin Wright Penn. Directed by Michael Mayer (R, 95 minutes). Michael Cunningham's adaptation of his novel is so well meaning that you may trick yourself into thinking that it's a good movie. But feeling sympathy for a film and its characters is not the same thing as liking or admiring it. Mr. Farrell and Mr. Roberts are childhood friends who, in adulthood, form an odd, triangular household with Ms. Penn's character, a kooky older woman. There are interesting ideas at work here about love, loss and sexuality, but the emotional subtleties of the novel turn into bland speechifying (Scott).

''I, ROBOT,'' starring Will Smith and Bridget Moynahan. Directed by Alex Proyas (PG-13, 110 minutes). Once again, machines are threatening to take over the world, and once again, they have developed feelings, which poses the usual conundrums of sci-fi philosophy. ''Suggested by'' Isaac Asimov's classic book of short stories, this sleek, hectic thriller engages some interesting ideas on its way to an overblown and incoherent ending. Mr. Smith, in weary-action movie mode, plays Del Spooner, a homicide detective in 2035 Chicago investigating the death of an old friend. Spooner is a confirmed robot-hater, and as he confronts his bigotry the movie develops a clever, if obvious, racial subtext. With the help of Susan Calvin (Ms. Moynahan), a concerned scientist, and a soulful machine named Sonny, Spooner contends with an apparent corporate conspiracy aimed at usurping human control of everything. ''You're the dumbest smart person I've ever met,'' Spooner says to Dr. Calvin at one point, and for a dumb movie, ''I, Robot'' turns out to be pretty smart (Scott).

''KING ARTHUR,'' starring Clive Owen and Keira Knightley. Directed by Antoine Fuqua (PG-13, 130 minutes). This misty, smoky, plodding epic claims to resurrect the ''true story'' that has been buried in centuries of Arthurian legend. Arthur (Mr. Owen) is a mopey Roman officer, whose knights are a band of conscripts policing the area around Hadrian's Wall and fighting off the Woads, a band of guerrilla fighters led by Merlin. The Romans withdraw, the Saxons arrive (led by Stellan Skarsgard, hamming it up in braids), and Arthur grapples with his identity crisis and falls in love with Guinevere (Ms. Knightley), a tough Woad babe he has rescued from a Roman dungeon. The battle scenes have some impact, though not much coherence, but Mr. Fuqua gives the movie an element of brawny, B-picture camp that mitigates its ponderous dullness (Scott).

* ''THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE,'' starring Denzel Washington, Meryl Streep and Liev Schreiber. Directed by Jonathan Demme (R, 130 minutes). Mr. Demme, updating John Frankenheimer's classic exercise in cold war liberal paranoia, wisely treats the original as a touchstone, rather than a template, and his movie, in spite of some narrative flaws, stands on its own as a witty, anxious thriller for a new age of political uncertainty. Mr. Washington plays Ben Marco, a Gulf War veteran haunted by nightmares who tries at once to hold onto his sanity and to unravel a conspiracy that reaches the highest levels of corporate and political power. Mr. Schreiber is a young congressman propelled toward the vice presidency by his monstrous mother, played with ice-chomping glee by Ms. Streep. The convolutions of the story are less important than the vigor of the performances, and the movie wears its attenuated political relevance lightly. Which may be a good thing, since this ''Candidate'' is, in the end, a breathless and intricate thriller about the continuing need for campaign finance reform (Scott).

* ''MARIA FULL OF GRACE,'' starring Catalina Sandino Moreno and Yenny Paola Vega. Written and directed by Joshua Marston (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles. It's painfully understandable why the 17-year-old title character of this gripping Colombian film would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. The movie follows the desperate plunge of Maria (Catalina Sandino Moreno) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld. Her dangerous undertaking is her last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it details Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in a rural village. If her story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat is Maria herself. In a performance that feels more lived in than acted, Ms. Moreno's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and ingenuity that compromise but never undermine her essential decency and morality. The movie sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is off-handed. Even while keeping you on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama or cheap moralizing (Holden).

* ''METALLICA: SOME KIND OF MONSTER,'' directed by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky (not rated, 139 minutes). Mr. Berlinger and Mr. Sinofsky, who began filming the mighty heavy-metal band Metallica in early 2001, turn what might have been a conventional behind-the-scenes rockumentary into a riveting, intricate pyschodrama. After nearly 20 years together, Metallica was in something of a funk, and the band members hired Phil Towle, a therapist, to help them through their artistic and interpersonal struggles. At its core, ''Some Kind of Monster'' is the portrait of a marriage: the angry, sustaining partnership between James Hetfield, the lead singer, and Lars Ulrich, the drummer, who founded the band as teenagers and must figure out how to keep it going now that they're in their 40's (Scott).

''SHE HATE ME,'' starring Anthony Mackie and Kerry Washington. Directed by Spike Lee (R, 138 minutes). In his flailingly angry new comedy, Mr. Lee carries his political exasperation beyond outrage into chaos. The carelessness with which the director hurls his feelings about hot-button topics onto the screen is the filmmaking equivalent of last-ditch marketing: grab everything in sight, roll it up into a big messy mud ball and hurl it against the wall, hoping that something sticks. Lashing out in all directions, the director addresses white-collar crime, the Bush administration, AIDS in Africa, the Mafia, Watergate, sex and reproduction, lesbianism and the meaning of family in a disoriented rant that lurches from one subject to the next with little to tie it together. A sex farce one minute, a crude political skit the next, an imitation ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'' harangue the next, ''She Hate Me'' can't maintain its focus long enough to say anything fresh. The boilerplate polemics mouthed by stick-figure characters sound like the beery 3 a.m. debates of a college bull session (Holden).

* ''SPIDER-MAN 2,'' starring Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, James Franco and Alfred Molina. Directed by Sam Raimi (PG-13, 110 minutes). This wonderfully vibrant entertainment -- surely one of the best comic-book movies ever -- reminds us that being a superhero is not all fun and games. The first hour is a pop art chronicle of suffering and indignity, as poor Peter Parker (Mr. Maguire) struggles with the loneliness and frustration of being an anonymous urban crime fighter. His powers are waning, he has lost the respect of the woman he loves, and even Aunt May (Rosemary Harris) seems a little disappointed in him. Meanwhile, a new supervillain, the tragic and terrifying Doc Ock (Mr. Molina), rampages through New York on mechanical arms with minds of their own. There is plenty of noise and color, and some so-so special effects, but the real thrill comes from Mr. Raimi's devotion to his hero's complex, conflicted emotional life, and to the melancholy, grown-up love story that develops between Peter and M. J. (Ms. Dunst), who comes into her own as a strong and decisive character, while still fulfilling the traditional comic-book girlfriend duties of screaming, getting kidnapped and being rescued (Scott).

''THE VILLAGE,'' starring Bryce Dallas Howard, Joaquin Phoenix and Adrien Brody. Written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan (PG-13, 120 minutes). Mr. Shyamalan remains our leading cinematic rug-puller, but the carpet grows ever more threadbare. This time, he populates a pre-industrial Pennsylvania village with an impressive cast of elders and youngsters, who almost never use contractions and who live in fear of some scary creatures in the surrounding woods. As ever, Mr. Shyamalan uses the classic techniques of movie suspense (and Mr. Howard's sinister score) to conjure an atmosphere of mystery and dread, which vanishes even before the big plot twist sends the picture spinning into silly, pretentious allegory. Don't worry, I won't spoil the surprise. It spoils itself (Scott).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Denzel Washington, left, and Liev Schreiber in ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' remade for a new age. (Photo by Ken Regan/Paramount Pictures)
 Joaquin Phoenix in ''The Village,'' where scary creatures may inhabit the surrounding woods. (Photo by Frank Masi/Buena Vista Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (58%); MATT DAMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



147 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Job Picture Looks Good Now, but Recession Left Fears That Endure

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
WHEN the July employment numbers are released today, the Bush administration will hail them as proof that the economy is doing well, and it will have a point. But despite rapid job growth this year, many Americans continue to believe there is a job crisis.
 Why is that? Some blame an overly negative press, but the real answer may be found by delving into the statistics. New numbers from the Labor Department show that the job downturn of 2001 and 2002 was surprisingly damaging to experienced workers, particularly older ones. 
 During that downturn, the unemployment rate never rose above 6.3 percent, a figure that would have been considered excellent in previous downturns. The latest number, for June, is 5.6 percent. In the late 1990's, American employers had to hire almost anyone who wanted work. There were reports of employers hiring consultants to help them find ex-convicts to take jobs. It stood to reason that when the bust came, it would be a case of last-hired, first-fired. Reliable long-term workers would be safe.
 As it happened, many newly hired workers did suffer. But they were not alone. The Labor Department periodically surveys what it calls ''long-tenured displaced workers,'' people who lost jobs they had held for at least three years, and lost them not because they were fired for cause but for other reasons like a plant closing or the elimination of a position. In a dynamic economy, of course, some such workers are always losing their jobs. In the late 1990's, there were relatively few of them and most found new jobs quickly.
 But by early 2004 -- after anyone laid off in 2001 or 2002 had had more than a year to find work -- many long-tenured workers who lost jobs in the downturn were still suffering. During 2001 and 2002, tenured workers were more likely to lose their jobs than in any downturn since 1981-82, when the unemployment rate hit 10.8 percent. And those who found new jobs took bigger pay cuts -- an average of 18.7 percent -- than in the past.
 It used to be that even among experienced workers, the age group most likely to suffer in a downturn was workers who were 25 to 34 years old. It's never fun to lose a job, but the young are more likely to be resilient and less likely to have family responsibilities. Over all, young workers were still most likely to lose jobs in the last downturn. But among workers with at least three years on the job, the most vulnerable workers were those 55 to 64.
 Of those experienced workers who lost their jobs in 2001-2, 36.1 percent stayed out of work so long that they exhausted their unemployment benefits. That number is much higher than in the 1990-91 downturn.
 There are limits to what can be shown with such data, but the numbers are consistent with a surge in outsourcing of jobs. Such outsourcing may be affecting long-established plants and companies, which are more likely to have experienced, older workers who will have trouble finding jobs comparable to the ones they lost. And people who see friends losing such jobs may be more likely to conclude that the job market is bad, whatever the statistics say.
 None of that changes the fact that the economy is expanding, although the pace of growth has slowed, and it should be noted that the layoff numbers are based on a January survey. That was just before hiring accelerated.
 But the bad experience helps to explain current perceptions. The Conference Board asks people every month whether jobs are plentiful or hard to get. The jobless rate now is almost exactly where it was in the summer of 1996, when Bill Clinton was cruising to re-election, but the public's view of the job picture today is far more negative.
 Those tenured workers who suffered in the downturn -- and their friends -- still feel the pain.


GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph tracks the percentage of workers who exhausted unemployment benefits after losing a job held for three years or more.TWO YEARS ENDED 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); CLOSINGS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) Labor; Unemployment; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Older Workers

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



148 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Says Sudan Has Plan to Aid Refugees and Disarm Darfur Forces

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: KHARTOUM, Sudan, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Sudan and the United Nations have agreed on a plan to tackle the refugee crisis and disarm marauding militia in Darfur in an effort to avert threatened sanctions, United Nations officials said Thursday.
 The agreement in Khartoum, which was not released, contains detailed steps to be taken in the next 30 days ''on how to begin to disarm the Janjaweed and other outlawed groups, on improving security in Darfur, and on addressing the humanitarian crisis,'' a United Nations spokeswoman, Denise Cook, said in New York.
 Last week the Security Council adopted a resolution demanding that the Sudanese government disarm the Janjaweed, militias that are accused of pillaging, raping and driving African villagers off their land. The resolution said that if Sudan did not comply, the Council would consider unspecified sanctions. 
 Jan Pronk, Mr. Annan's special representative to Sudan, told reporters in Khartoum on Thursday that the government had kept its promise to provide access in Darfur for relief organizations. He said he and Foreign Minister Osman Mustafa Ismail agreed on detailed policy measures to avoid sanctions, but they need to be approved by Sudan's Cabinet.
 Some 30,000 people are estimated to have been killed and 2.2 million are in urgent need of food, medicine and shelter in Darfur, where two main rebel groups revolted last year, complaining of official neglect. The Janjaweed then retaliated. 
 At the United Nations, the American ambassador, John C. Danforth, said Khartoum had to make sure its military was not ''unloading bombs from planes'' or ''using helicopters to destroy villages.'' 
 ''If this situation continues, it's going to be very visible,'' he said. "There will be consequences.'' 
 More than 100,000 people from Darfur have fled to neighboring Chad. The French defense minister, Michele Alliot-Marie, is to fly to Chad on Friday to visit aid workers and French troops helping refugees. 
 The police commissioner in North Darfur State was quoted Thursday as saying the disarmament process would begin this week.
 ''The disarmament campaign would be carried out on a voluntary basis or through raids into the suspected areas,'' the commissioner, Jamal al-Huwairs, told the semi-official Sudanese Media Center. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); DISARMAMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ARMED FORCES (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Immigration and Refugees; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

PERSON: MICHELE ALLIOT-MARIE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SUDAN (99%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



149 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 3363 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for last Friday night only.

Broadway

++ ''AFTER THE FALL.'' Perhaps there is something anesthetizing in the discovery that no one in the world is innocent. Portraying a man in thrall to this harsh revelation in a grievously misconceived revival of ''After the Fall,'' Arthur Miller's 1964 drama of moral disillusionment, Peter Krause (of ''Six Feet Under'' on television) certainly appears to be feeling no pain. Or joy. Or any of the stronger emotions that crop up in between. As Quentin, a woman-bedeviled lawyer in search of human connection, Mr. Krause leads the audience through his character's mind like a dutiful museum guide. This is not a winning attitude to bring to a play that is essentially one man's cosmic yelp. And the director, Michael Mayer, does little to raise the emotional temperature. Staged as if it were a breezy period sex comedy, the production suffers from the depth-denying bad faith that the play makes a point of condemning. As Quentin's angry wives, Jessica Hecht and Carla Gugino (as the Marilyn Monroe-like Maggie) provide some much-needed energy (2:30) American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesday to Saturday at 8pm; Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $86.25 (Ben Brantley).

* ''AVENUE Q'' (Tony Award winner for best musical, original score and book of a musical). The inspired brainchild of the songwriters Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, this canny toy chest of a musical takes its stylistic cues from ''Sesame Street,'' from its cheery urban set to its singing puppets of assorted colors and dispositions. And in doing so it becomes the first mainstream musical since ''Rent'' to coo with such seductive directness to theatergoers on the fair side of 40 in their own language, in which irony is less a mind-set than a loosely worn style. Directed by Jason Moore, with a book by Jeff Whitty, the show applies the coaxing, learning-is-fun attitude of children's educational television to the R-rated situations of postcollegiate life in the big city. Featuring a pitch-perfect ensemble of live performers and oversize hand puppets, ''Avenue Q'' is to ''Sesame Street'' what Mel Brooks's ''Producers'' is to vintage Broadway musicals: a connoisseur's tribute to what it only seems to send up (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m.Tickets: $46.25 and $96.25, with a limited number of $21.25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5:30 p.m. for the evening show and at 11:30 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

''THE BOY FROM OZ'' (Tony winner for best actor in a musical). Hugh Jackman's shoulders must ache like the devil when he wakes up in the morning. This able-bodied, infinitely appealing young man is spending most of his nights engaged in some painfully heavy lifting that no shoulders, no matter how broad, should be asked to attempt. That's what happens when you put an indisputably authentic star like Mr. Jackman at the center of an indisputably bogus show like ''The Boy From Oz,'' the bathetic musical biography of the Australian entertainer and songwriter Peter Allen, directed by Philip Wm. McKinley. Were it not for Mr. Jackman, there would be no reason to recommend this backstage, back-story look at show business. But let it be said that the electric Mr. Jackman never looks as if he's even thinking about shrugging this soggy cardboard world of a show off his shoulders (2:30). Imperial, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

+ ''CAROLINE, OR CHANGE'' (Tony winner for best featured actress in a musical, Anika Noni Rose). A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner (''Angels in America'') and Jeanine Tesori (''Thoroughly Modern Millie''), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through ''Caroline,'' from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score that avoids anthems of uplift. The tone is evenhanded, slightly distanced compassion as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. In ambition and achievement, ''Caroline'' handily tops this season's new musicals. But it is almost too good to be good (2:35). O'Neill, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $101 (Brantley).

+ ''FIDDLER ON THE ROOF.'' Should the entertainment entrepreneurs of Branson, Mo., ever come up with a pavilion called Shtetl Land, this is what it would be like. In David Leveaux's handsomely mounted, antiseptically acted revival of this beloved musical of Jewish life in Russia, circa 1900, the ensemble members go through their paces of song, dance and Yiddish humor with a bland, dutiful cheer that rarely turns into anything more robust. It's a pretty, prim production that is bafflingly devoid of gusto, earthiness and warmth. An aura of enervation starts at the top of the cast, with Alfred Molina's apologetic performance as Tevye the milkman, and penetrates like a paralyzing fog into even the smallest roles. Tom Pye's set is lovely to look at, and the orchestra sounds swell. But a ''Fiddler'' without a soul has no reason to be (3:00). Minskoff, 200 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $100 (Brantley).

''THE FROGS.'' Even the creme de la creme can curdle every now and then. This musical adaptation of Aristophanes' 2,400-year-old comedy of gods and playwrights has the highest concentration of blue-ribbon talent of any show now on Broadway. It stars Nathan Lane, the only actor who qualifies as serious royalty in the thinning world of musical comedy, and Roger Bart, whose very smile has been known to stop a show. The director and choreographer is Susan Stroman (''The Producers,'' ''Contact''). And the composer is -- reverent pause, please -- Stephen Sondheim. Yet despite these fine ingredients, what should have been a zesty, airy souffle is a soggy, lumpy batter that never shows the slightest signs of rising. Staged in 1974 as a publicity-garnering, hourlong novelty by the Yale School of Drama -- around and in the university gymnasium swimming pool, if you please -- this bauble of a show has been reshaped to fill two and a half hours. The results suggest that to stretch something this slight is to shatter it (2:30). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $65 to $95 (Brantley).

*+ ''FROZEN.'' For a play centered on a serial murderer of little girls, Bryony Lavery's humane, intelligent drama is striking for its sustained aura of ordinariness. ''Frozen'' is indeed the story of the brutal killing of a child and its repercussions. Yet no trace of sensationalism colors Doug Hughes's beautifully acted, carefully considered production, which stars Swoosie Kurtz (as the child's mother), Brian F. O'Byrne (who won a Tony Award for best featured actor in a play, as the murderer) and Laila Robins (as an academic specializing in serial killers). The characters, who often speak in monologues, don't so much vent their intense emotions as betray them through involuntary eruptions that they quickly stifle. In the age of the Amber Alert and Megan's Law, ''Frozen'' brings a coolly discursive attitude to a hot-button subject. This is not to say it is in any way unfeeling (2:15). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $85 (Brantley).

* ''HAIRSPRAY.'' Portraying the plus-size Baltimore housewife Edna Turnblad, Michael McKean is more creditable than credible. Having appeared in deadpan film mockumentaries like ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' Mr. McKean knows the value of playing comedy straight. He doesn't accessorize Edna's housecoat with overwrought feminine mannerisms, and his timing is dead-on. Yet unlike his Tony Award-winning predecessor, Harvey Fierstein, Mr. McKean never makes that final leap of faith that brings out the woman in a man. This shifts the show's emphasis to the younger generation in this pop fable of racial integration and rock 'n' roll. And Carly Jibson, as the boundary-breaking Tracy Turnblad, and Jennifer Gambatese, as her nerdy best friend, combine the hormonal glow of adolescence with the confidence of old pros. Though ''Hairspray'' can be tedious when preaching via big-throated anthems or satirizing via clunky caricature, it is newly vibrant in bringing out the randy rhythms in early rock 'n' roll that made parents fear for their children's chastity (2:30). Simon, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $65 to $100, with a limited number of $25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5 p.m. for the evening show and at 11 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

*+ ''I AM MY OWN WIFE'' (Tony winner for best play and best actor in a play). Doug Wright's one-actor play, with a thrillingly accomplished performance by Jefferson Mays and a diamond-sharp production directed by Moises Kaufman, tells a terrific story based on a real person, Charlotte von Mahlsdorf (ne Lothar Berfelde), a soft-spoken but tenaciously gender-bending biological man who died in 2002 at 74. Her lifelong obsession -- Mahlsdorf preferred to be thought of as female -- was the preservation of furniture, especially from the 1890's, and other household relics like Victrolas and gramophones. Her devotion to her astonishing collection, with which she turned her home into a museum, gave focus and motivation to a life whose grandest achievement was that it proceeded to its natural end. The play is largely about Charlotte's enduring the cruel repressions of the Nazis and the Communists, and her harrowing tales of survival through the eras of the Gestapo and the Stasi are nothing short of breathtaking. Ah, but are they credible? That also becomes an issue in the play, which very subtly but, in the end, quite powerfully makes a case for the necessity of storytelling in our lives (2:15). Lyceum, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $86.25, with $20 student and teacher tickets at the box office the day of show (Bruce Weber).

*+ ''WONDERFUL TOWN'' (Tony winner for choreography). In this captivating revival of Leonard Bernstein's musical love poem to Manhattan, Donna Murphy gives one of the most dazzlingly accomplished performances you're ever likely to see. As the writer Ruth Sherwood, the role Rosalind Russell slayed 'em with in 1954, Ms. Murphy blithely juggles assorted gleaming styles without ever breaking character. If much of Kathleen Marshall's staging of this tale of dewy Ohio sisters in New York isn't up to Ms. Murphy, well, what would be? Jennifer Westfeldt is charming as Ruth's boy-magnet of a sister. And the orchestra, under the direction of Rob Fisher, is superb, giving ebullient life to Bernstein's lighthearted city symphony of a score. The wisecracking lyrics are by Comden and Green (2:30). Hirschfeld, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $56 and $101 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

* ''BRIDGE & TUNNEL.'' Contemporary solo performance takes great craft and generosity. Sarah Jones has both: you see them in every moment of her show. We're in the Bridge & Tunnel Cafe in South Queens for the annual ''I Am a Poet Too'' reading. The host, Mohammed Ali, a genial Pakistani accountant, proudly explains that the letters in ''I Am a Poet Too'' stand for ''Immigrant and Multiculturalist American Poets or Enthusiasts Traveling Toward Optimistic Openness.'' When Ms. Jones is Mohammed Ali, she dons a sports jacket over black pants and a black shirt. Her tops and accessories change. Her gestures and movements change, too, and multiple characters emerge: a Brooklyn rapper, a Long Island grandmother, a Vietnamese slam poet and a Jamaican poet-performer-playwright-actress-spoken word artist. Ms. Jones's ear and voice are flawless, and she is a fine writer, too. Pitch, accent, vocal rhythms and poetry styles: she gets them all. This young performer displays spirit and uncanny accuracy as she portrays a host of immigrants and outsiders who make up this hybrid nation (1:40). 45 Bleecker, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26.50 and $50.50 (Margo Jefferson).

*+ ''BUG.'' Have you ever been to a play that made you itch all over? Paranoia festers in the skin, as provokingly physical as a poison-ivy rash, in Tracy Letts's lurid story of a man, a woman and a whole lot of really tiny critters. Scratching is the least of what its characters do to try to ease their discomfort. The visceral wallop of ''Bug'' is likely to come as a shock -- even to fans of Mr. Letts's ''Killer Joe.'' ''Bug'' also inspires laughs, but of a much more uneasy variety. Directed with expert and sadistic timing by Dexter Bullard, with the cast led by Shannon Cochran and Paul Sparks, this production ultimately drags you by force into the fear and squalor onstage, making this the theater season's wildest ride (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $55; $60 for the evening shows on Fridays and Saturdays (Brantley).

+ ''FICTION.'' Steven Dietz's artfully constructed play is flawlessly delivered by its three-member cast. It's just too bad that the two main characters are the kinds of people you can't stand to be around for more than 10 minutes. Their names are Linda and Michael, and they converse in a brainy, allusion-filled banter that seems sophisticated but is really just irritating. The literary citations, pop-culture references and other aren't-I-smart affectations never let up. Linda and Michael, portrayed with admirable verve by Julie White and Tom Irwin, are writers who have kept private journals through their long and seemingly stable marriage. When Linda develops a brain tumor, she asks to spend her last days reading his, and of course there's a secret within. The secret's name is Abby, a sexy remnant from a writers' colony Michael attended years before, and Emily Bergl plays her with a sharp-edged allure that is the production's best feature (2:00). Laura Pels, Harold & Miriam Steinberg Center for Theatre, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m.; Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $51.25 to $61.25 (Neil Genzlinger).

+ ''THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS -- THE MUSICAL!'' A good parody needs smart writers and winning performers; ''The Musical of Musicals -- The Musical!,'' a York Theater production, has four, and two of them are the composer Eric Rockwell and the lyricist Joanne Bogart. Taking their plot straight from corny old melodrama, they offer spoof in the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Kander and Ebb. The Jerry Herman segment is the weakest because his work is the simplest; the pretensions of Lord Lloyd Webber make a better target. The other three are good, zany fun (1:40). The Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 868-4444. Mondays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Jefferson).

Last Chance

''MACBETH.'' The Classical Theater of Harlem's rendition of Shakespeare's tragedy is awash in howling, dancing witches -- the three we all know and a coven of 10 more. The director, Alfred Presser, approaches the play like a music video, with a dark, fairy-tale narrative method and startling sound effects from four onstage musicians. He concentrates the story on Macbeth as a tyrant finally done in by his victims. All the adjacent personal tragedies in the script, including Lady Macbeth's and Lady Macduff's, are roadkill. The pace is rocket speed; the Macbeths murder Duncan, crown themselves and exile their foes in 30 minutes, followed by an hour's free fall into gore, terror and revenge. The theater's outdoor courtyard makes a spectacular setting (1:30). Classical Theater of Harlem, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, Harlem, (212) 868-4444. Tonight through Sunday night at 8 p.m. Tickets: $19 (D. J. R. Bruckner).

''THE MAN WHO WOULD BE KING.'' An old tale brims with timely resonance in the Aquila Theater's engaging presentation of ''The Man Who Would Be King,'' adapted from the 1888 story by Rudyard Kipling (1865-1936). This short story about two drifting, scheming former British Army sergeants in India in the heyday of the British empire who set out to become kings of Kafiristan, an unexplored, uncharted land ''at the top right hand corner of Afghanistan,'' lends itself to many interpretations. Peter Meineck and Robert Richmond, its director, have done a praiseworthy job of tweaking Kipling's story to enhance its relevance to the 21st century. The tale remains compelling, the overtones invite consideration and the performances by the small cast ably evoke the sprawling, colorful landscape of India, frigid mountain passes and the exotic lands beyond (2:00). Aquila Theater Company, at the Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street. (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $45 (Lawrence Van Gelder).

''MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.'' There's a juicy battle going on nightly at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. It's not the insult-a-thon between Beatrice and Benedick. The main event here is the wonderful war between Kristen Johnston and Jimmy Smits, who play those characters, as they vie for the title of crowd favorite. Both play the humor of Shakespeare's inconsequential story with a relaxed ease that challenges the audience to keep up while at the same time making that easy to do. And when they are onstage together, it is sublime fun indeed. The other star attraction on the bill is the pairing of Sam Waterston and his daughter, Elisabeth Waterston, as the story's father and daughter, Leonato and Hero. This ends up being not nearly as cloying or annoying as it might have been. Partly this is because Hero, the beautiful maiden at the center of the tale, doesn't really have much to do other than smile. And partly it's because during Mr. Waterston's long, raspy rant in the second act, when he falsely thinks his daughter is a tramp, the main distraction is not that he's talking about his real-life daughter; it's that it looks as if he might explode or spontaneously combust at any moment in the summer heat (3:00). Public Theater at the Delacorte Theater, Central Park. Entrances at Central Park West and 82st Street, and Fifth Avenue and 79th Street, (212) 539-8750. Tonight through Sunday night at 8. Free (Genzlinger).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carla Gugino and Peter Krause in Arthur Miller's ''After the Fall.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 Tom Irwin and Emily Bergl in ''Fiction,'' by Steven Dietz. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); SONG WRITING (62%); CITY LIFE (60%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



150 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: A Last Stand For Hamm And the '91ers

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

DATELINE: Athens 

 BODY:
THEY are the greatest national team America has ever produced. They do almost everything together.
 Why, just the other day, the husband of one of their teammates was transferred in one of those cold corporate deals from one rich company to another. He had to move hundreds of miles away. 
 The women did not sit around and mope about it. They did something constructive.
 ''We traded red caps for blue caps,'' said Shannon Boxx, one of the newer members of the United States women's soccer team. 
 Out went the Boston Red Sox caps. Some of the players found Chicago Cubs caps and others ordered them in a show of solidarity for Mia Hamm's husband, Nomar Garciaparra, who was traded in one of baseball's classic midsummer, dump-the-pending-free-agent business deals.
 ''Some of us have experienced it in a very minor way,'' said Abby Wambach, referring to the current status of their professional league, at slightly lower salary levels than Garciaparra's.
 At the moment, these Summer Games are the biggest thing the women have. Next Wednesday on the island of Crete, the Americans will take on the Greek team, half of them Americans. The United States has not won a big tournament since the epic World Cup of 1999, losing to Norway in the gold-medal game at the Sydney Games in 2000 and losing to Germany in the semifinals of the 2003 Women's World Cup. 
 This will be the last time this team even remotely resembles the one that won the first World Cup in 1991. Hamm, Kristine Lilly, Julie Foudy, Brandi Chastain and Joy Fawcett may not collectively pass this way again.
 ''The '91ers,'' Wambach called them. 
 Somehow Hamm became the poster player for the team. Maybe it was her feral intensity on grass or her reticent aura in civvies. The 150 international goals, the most by any male or female soccer player, helped. Not by her choice, Hamm became the marketable face of this admirable team.
 Boxx was a college player in the Rose Bowl stands in 1999 when the United States beat China. She remembers Hamm's impact on the sport. ''It was amazing to see dads in Mia Hamm jerseys,'' she said. ''It was men, it was boys.''
 Hamm always backed away from the cult of personality. It is the way she was raised. She has always acted as part of society, not a celebrity face on a T-shirt. 
 She and three other '91ers did make a gesture to nostalgia when they rented a house together in California this year, with Fawcett staying with her husband and three children not far away. 
 In a telephone conversation yesterday, Hamm talked about having children, but ''only after we have some time together, just the two of us.''
 She had hoped they could spend the next few seasons in Boston, but cold baseball economics sent Garciaparra to Chicago. 
 ''She's an amazing person,'' Garciaparra told reporters on his first day in a Cubs uniform. ''She said, 'Hey, just tell me where we're going to be when I get back from Greece.''' 
 Hamm knows the language of sports trades. Yesterday she said: ''We'll wait and see. His focus is on helping the Cubs get into the postseason. He's been traded from a city that's been so great to him to another unbelievable sports city. 
 ''I remember in 1991 I went to my first game in Wrigley Field and had a great time,'' she said. ''I've always loved playing in Soldier Field. The atmosphere is great.''
 Aside from changing baseball loyalties in a heartbeat, the American women said they had not detected the slightest preoccupation in Hamm. 
 ''She's always the same,'' Wambach said. 
 Hamm rejects the theory that the women's team needs to do something spectacular as a going-away present to the last '91ers. ''Our mentality is, always win,'' Hamm said. ''They can't feel, 'We have to do it for them.''' 
 There must be a generational change soon. The team sent out four newer players -- Cat Reddick, Heather O'Reilly, Boxx and Wambach -- to a news conference yesterday while the older players rested after a midday practice. ''We obviously want to give them something to smile about,'' Wambach said. ''We don't want to have three potential failures.''
 Hamm knows that Germany and Sweden have made progress. She talks proudly about watching Mexico get better every time it plays the United States. She would like to win one more championship against improved opposition before her career ends.
 ''To be honest, if people want a guideline, it's not like the Olympics are the end,'' Hamm said. ''I'd like my last game to be in the States.''
 There may even be a farewell tour for the '91ers, a final game for Hamm. It could be in a number of American cities. It probably won't be in Boston.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mia Hamm (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TOURNAMENTS (71%) Olympic Games; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); World Cup; Soccer

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%)

PERSON: George Vecsey; Mia Hamm; Brandi Chastain

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



151 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Whispers That May Wake the Dragons

BYLINE: By Anne Wu. 
Anne Wu, a former official in the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
The negotiations to remove nuclear weapons from the Korean peninsula are a delicate business, made even more so with the tectonic shifts in Asian geopolitics. As facilitator in the often rocky negotiations that also include North and South Korea, Russia, Japan and the United States, China appears to be taking a decisive -- if typically understated -- diplomatic initiative in smoothing communications between North Korea and the United States.
 But what message is China whispering to North Korea? With the six party talks scheduled to resume in September, both those eager for China to exert its influence and those suspicious of that influence would dearly like to know. China now has an opportunity to take advantage of the cautious equilibrium between Washington and Pyongyang and advance the cause of nuclear nonproliferation on the Korean peninsula. 
 There are still significant divisions between the United States, which is pressing for the verifiable and irreversible dismantling of North Korea's nuclear weapons program and North Korea, which has not yet even admitted it has an uranium enrichment program. The two sides also disagree on inspections and on the exact sequence of disarmament and assistance.
 It is certainly in China's interest that North Korea put an end to its nuclear weapons program. Increasingly pragmatic, Beijing now focuses its foreign policy on creating a secure regional and international environment that will foster economic growth. That goal would be seriously undermined if North Korea were to remain nuclear. Accompanied by a regional arms race, a disruption of the region's nuclear balance could leave China surrounded by nuclear powers -- Russia, India, Pakistan, Japan, South Korea and even Taiwan. In this context, the traditional ''lips to teeth'' relationship that envisioned using North Korea as a buffer against the United States appears both obsolete and self-destructive. 
 China enjoys a unique position in the negotiations: it alone can express a full and sincere understanding of North Korea's security concerns and can work to obtain a better deal for Pyongyang. Eager to avoid any turbulence in the Korean peninsula, China will press to establish a tone based on reconciliation, process and reciprocity.
 This is both healthy and, more important, potentially more productive than North Korea's hard-nosed style or America's hard-line tactics. The six-party talks have shown that more confrontational approaches are ineffectual at best, and at times threaten to increase tension between the parties. Emphasizing the ''words for words'' and ''action for action'' solution, China has tried to establish a clear, step-by-step itinerary, an itinerary that affords equal import to ending North Korea's nuclear activities and satisfying North Korea's economic and security needs.
 China's actions also show a guarded but unmistakable change of attitude. Especially in comparison to 50 years ago, China no longer feels obligated to be Pyongyang's ''big brother'' and no longer provides unqualified support to North Korea. In other words, North Korea will have to learn to behave.
 The friendship treaty between China and North Korea signed in 1961 now seems a burden to China. It's hard to imagine that China would ever intervene directly in the event of a crisis on the Korean peninsula, as the treaty calls for. China's diplomatic philosophy has changed considerably. Beijing is no longer interested in ''exporting revolution.'' 
 Rather, the Chinese leadership is orienting its foreign policy to serve domestic needs. Having substantially improved its relations with the United States, China is now extremely reluctant to compromise this relationship. This explains in part China's visible efforts to downplay the 1961 treaty -- efforts that contrast with North Korea's attempts to emphasize the pact's importance. Beijing clearly wants to avoid emboldening North Korea with any fantasy about China's security clout. 
 The message has not yet been received in North Korea, which still behaves at times like a stubborn boy. Many in the region hope that China, like a dutiful big brother, will shepherd North Korea back into the fold of peaceful nations, instead of letting it wander around with weapons of mass destruction in hand. China is likely to make its demands not in a shout but in a whisper: do not go away again. Come home and enjoy the comforts we can provide. Why go on drifting, hungry, lonely and desperate?
 For its part, North Korea is waiting for the emerging Chinese leadership to reveal exactly how it intends to use its influence. And both ''brothers'' are following with great interest the presidential campaign in the United States. While North Korea and the United States may want to defer serious negotiations until after the American presidential election, China is sure to press North Korea to reach an agreement sooner rather than later.
 Guessing what Beijing may whisper into the ear of Washington, meanwhile, is more difficult. For the United States, the message is likely to be more proverbial -- a word of caution, perhaps, a reminder of the uncertain aftermath of the American invasion of Iraq: beware of seeking out dragons and destroying them. You may cause more dragons to emerge.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS RACE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: Anne Wu

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) North Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



152 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words

 BODY:
An article in Business Day yesterday about expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates next week referred incorrectly to an economic statistic reported by the government on Tuesday. It was consumer spending that fell 0.7 percent in June. (Personal income rose 0.2 percent.)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (85%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (82%) United States Economy; Correction Stories; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



153 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Recalls S.U.V. and Moves to Protect Its Stock

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: TRAVERSE CITY, Mich., Aug. 5 

 BODY:
General Motors, the world's largest automaker, took steps on Thursday to mitigate problems both under the hood and in its financial reports. 
 John M. Devine, G.M.'s chief financial officer, said at an industry management conference here that the company would recall all the Saturn Vue sport utility vehicles it has made since their introduction in 2001. The announcement came a week after regulators said the vehicle's suspension had broken during new federal rollover tests. 
 ''When we see something, we fix it -- we jump on it right away,'' Mr. Devine said. ''If you look at our quality record, we're not pleased with this and we're working very hard to make sure it doesn't happen again.'' 
 Mr. Devine also said that G.M., concerned about a probable change in accounting rules, would pay holders of a special type of convertible bond in cash instead of stock when they come due. The strategy would avoid the dilution of G.M.'s shares, and the reduction of its per-share earnings, that would occur under the accounting change. 
 G.M. has issued more than $8 billion of contingent convertible bonds, making it the largest issuer of the relatively new kind of bond, known in specialized financial circles as co-co's. Such bonds are convertible into shares -- and dilute a company's stock -- after the share price increases by a predetermined amount. Last month, the Financial Accounting Standards Board proposed requiring companies to account for these bonds upfront in the same way as other convertible bonds. 
 The new accounting rule would reduce G.M.'s projected earnings of $7 a share this year by $1, but G.M. has the option of substituting cash for stock. ''There's no direct economic impact from this if you go through the numbers,'' Mr. Devine said, ''but it does have a significant impact on investor views of the company.'' 
 The recall announced on Thursday covers about 245,000 Vues sold in the United States and Canada over the last four years. 
 G.M. had more recalls in the first four months of the year than in all 2003. In a securities filing, it said Thursday that it had spent $400 million more than expected in the first half of the year to cover the cost of recalls. 
 The Vue was developed before a new government rollover test. Regulators have begun tests on new cars and trucks in an effort to reduce rollover-related fatalities, which now stand at more than 10,000 a year. They tested two versions of the Vue and the suspensions broke on both vehicles, halting the tests. 
 ''It's a very aggressive test that went beyond, frankly, what we had tested,'' Mr. Devine said, adding, ''The fix is to beef up the suspension system, and we're doing just that.''
 Consumer advocates had called for G.M. to initiate a recall. 
 ''I think General Motors made the right decision,'' said Joan Claybrook, the president of Public Citizen. ''It was the only decision.''
 Mr. Devine also reiterated how tough financial conditions were for domestic manufacturers, particularly because of high health care costs. Total costs for the Big Three automakers -- G.M., the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler -- reached $8.5 billion last year. G.M., the company with the most retirees, accounted for more than half of that. 
 ''We in the U.S. have a serious competitive disadvantage that we have to deal with,'' Mr. Devine said. 
 High health care costs have limited the Big Three in slowing the advance of foreign competitors chipping away at market share. The president of Toyota, Fujio Cho, said on Wednesday that his company had been expanding so rapidly that its North American managers, especially those with training in its quality processes, were stretched thin, leading Toyota to make its regions more self-reliant on their own quality experts. 
 ''Instead of having ample time to work with a small American management team, we are now rushing to add managers to handle new plants in Texas, Tennessee and Mexico,'' Mr. Cho said in a speech. 
 ''In sports terminology,'' he added, ''you could say we have a short bench.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: G.M.'s chief, Rick Wagoner, with Saturn Vue and engine. All Vues are being recalled after the suspension broke in rollover tests. (Photo by Joe Polimeni/General Motors/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (88%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Automobiles; Recalls and Bans of Products; Automobile Safety Features and Defects; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Tests and Testing; Accounting and Accountants; Finances; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: JOHN M DEVINE (90%); RICK WAGONER (59%) Danny Hakim; John M Devine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



154 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: In Yukos Give-and-Take, Kremlin Takes Back

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Crude oil prices surged to all-time highs Thursday amid conflicting signals from Russia about the embattled oil giant Yukos. 
 The Russian authorities rescinded an offer made a day earlier to allow Yukos to use its frozen bank accounts to finance day-to-day operations. Renewed concerns over the loss of around 1.7 million barrels a day of Yukos production prompted a surge in oil prices. 
 Crude futures hit records in New York trading, with the September contract reaching $44.50 a barrel. The contract settled at $44.41, a rise of $1.58, or 3.67 percent. 
 Energy markets have been roiled by increasing demand from countries with booming economies like China, as well as by continued violence and concerns about reliability of supply in Iraq, where saboteurs have attacked pipelines and disrupted exports. 
 Oil prices had dropped on Wednesday when the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said the cartel had enough supply to plug any short-term gaps in demand. But on Thursday, oil prices shot up again after the Russian Ministry of Justice said it had not given Yukos access to its accounts.
 On Thursday, Yukos's stock fell more than 14 percent in Moscow within minutes of the announcement. The stock closed down 2.3 percent, at $4.25 a share.
 In a statement, the Justice Ministry denied that it had granted Yukos permission to use its frozen bank accounts and said that what was made public by Yukos on Wednesday night was granted by only one bailiff -- and was illegal. The authorities then withdrew the permission and froze Yukos's accounts once again. 
 As part of a wide-ranging investigation against Yukos and its founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the oil company faces $3.4 billion in back taxes. Paying it all at once would bankrupt Yukos, executives said, and Yukos is forbidden from selling assets. So far, court bailiffs have collected about 22 billion rubles of the 98 billion rubles, or $3.4 billion, in the back taxes demanded for the year 2000, the ministry added. 
 The authorities have also threatened to sell Yukos's main oil production subsidiary, and in a statement said that the government continued to appraise the value of the unit, Yuganskneftegas.
 Investors and analysts said it was unlikely that the Kremlin-backed campaign against Yukos was an effort to rupture or stop Russia's oil production. 
 After the Soviet Union collapsed, the country's oil production dropped more than half. The industry has made a stunning recovery, and in July, Russian oil production hit a post-communist record. Oil production in Russia for the six months from January to July increased to 236 million tons, a 10.3 percent increase over the same period a year earlier, the State Statistics Committee reported this week. 
 ''I can't believe that it's part of the government's plan to disrupt production,'' said Peter Halloran, who manages a hedge fund investing in Russian companies. ''There are other ways to get where they need to go.''
 But the attack on Yukos and Mr. Khodorkovsky could be a harbinger of another trend -- to return to government hands some of Russia's most prized energy assets, which were privatized in the 1990's post-Soviet era. 
 The government's share of Russia's 2004 estimated oil production is about 7.2 percent. But if Yuganskneftegas is returned to government control, the Kremlin's share of oil production would grow to almost 18 percent, making it the second-largest producer after Lukoil, according to estimates in a report by Troika Dialog, an investment bank.
 The Yukos affair has vaulted Russia's oil and gas sector into a new phase that could culminate in a shift away from privately owned companies and foreign investors and toward the government, the Troika Dialog report said. Another byproduct of more Kremlin control over oil and gas sector could be that while Russia's oil production remains steady, it may not grow as fast as it would have in private hands.
 Some companies like TNK-BP are likely to exceed growth expectations, but other majors like Sibneft, Yukos and Rosneft are already below their output goals for the year.
 ''We doubt that the state-run or 'people's oil' companies are capable of producing additional barrels at low cost,'' Troika Dialog said.
 Consequently, Russia probably will not average 10 million barrels a day by the year 2006. By 2009 and 2010, Russia may only be pumping 10.9 million and 11.1 million barrels a day, the bank estimated.
 ''For Western investors, the arbitrariness of some of these decisions is a very difficult thing to swallow,'' said Julia Nanay, a director at PFC Energy consultants in Washington. ''It also appears the direction of the oil industry is more central control over assets. It will leave Western investors very little room and a limited role in Russia.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The founder of Yukos, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, was in court yesterday in Moscow. Renewed concerns over Yukos sent oil prices higher. (Photo by Mikhail Metzel/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); LITIGATION (75%); CARTELS (73%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TAX LAW (67%) Frauds and Swindling; Tax Evasion ; Taxation; Suits and Litigation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Production; Assets, Frozen; Futures and Options Trading; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%) Yukos (Russian Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%)

PERSON: Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Russia; Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



155 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Failure Of Leadership

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Anthony Dixon and Adam Froehlich were best friends who grew up in the suburbs of southern New Jersey, not far from Philadelphia. They went to junior high school together. They wrestled on the same team at Overbrook High School in the town of Pine Hill. They enlisted in the Army together in 2002. And both died in Iraq, in roadside bombings just four months apart.
 Specialist Dixon was killed on Sunday in Samarra. Specialist Froehlich was killed in March near Baquba. They were 20 years old. 
 No one has a clue how this madness will end. As G.I.'s continue to fight and die in Iraq, the national leaders who put them needlessly in harm's way are now flashing orange alert signals to convey that Al Qaeda -- the enemy that should have been in our sights all along -- is poised to strike us again.
 It's as if the government were following a script from the theater of the absurd. Instead of rallying our allies to a coordinated and relentless campaign against Al Qaeda after Sept. 11, we insulted the allies, gave them the back of our hand and arrogantly sent the bulk of our forces into the sand trap of Iraq.
 Now we're in a fix.
 The war in Iraq has intensified the hatred of America around the world and powerfully energized Al Qaeda-type insurgencies. At the same time, it has weakened our defenses by diverting the very resources we need -- personnel, materiel and boatloads of cash -- to meet the real terror threats.
 President Bush's re-election mantra is that he's the leader who can keep America safe. But that message was stepped on by the urgent, if not frantic, disclosures this week by top administration officials that another Al Qaeda attack on the United States might be imminent. 
 A debate emerged almost immediately about whether the intelligence on which those disclosures were based was old or new, or a combination of both. Nevertheless, because of the growing sense of alarm, there was an expansion of the already ubiquitous armed, concrete-fortified sites in New York City and Washington.
 The pressure may be getting to Mr. Bush. He came up with a gem of a Freudian slip yesterday. At a signing ceremony for a $417 billion military spending bill, the president said: ''Our enemies are innovative and resourceful, and so are we. They never stop thinking about new ways to harm our country and our people, and neither do we.'' 
 The nation seems paralyzed, unsure of what to do about Iraq or terrorism. The failure of leadership that led to the bonehead decision to invade Iraq remains painfully evident today. Nobody seems to know where we go from here.
 What Americans need more than anything else right now is some honest information about the critical situations we're facing.
 What's the military mission in Iraq? Can it be clearly defined? Is it achievable? At what cost and over what time frame? How many troops will be needed? How many casualties are we willing to accept? And how much suffering are we willing to endure here at home in terms of the domestic needs that are unmet?
 Neither Lyndon Johnson nor Richard Nixon was honest with the American people about Vietnam, and the result was a monumental tragedy. George W. Bush has not leveled with the nation about Iraq, and we are again trapped in a long, tragic nightmare.
 As for the so-called war on terror, there is no evidence yet that the administration has a viable plan for counteracting Al Qaeda and its America-hating allies, offshoots and imitators. Whether this week's clumsy sequence of press conferences, leaks and alerts was politically motivated or not, the threat to the U.S. is both real and grave. And it can't be thwarted with military power alone.
 Does the administration have any real sense of what motivates the nation's enemies? Does it understand the ways in which American policies are empowering its enemies? Does it grasp the crucial importance of international alliances and coordinated intelligence activity in fighting terror? And is it even beginning to think seriously about lessening our debilitating dependence on Middle Eastern oil?
 The United States is the greatest military and economic power in the history of the planet. But it lacks a unifying sense of national purpose at the moment, and seems uncertain, even timid, as the national security challenges continue to mount. That is what a failure of leadership can do to a great power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LEGISLATION (62%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



156 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Pitches Energy Plan in Missouri

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and NEELA BANERJEE; David M. Halbfinger reported from Jefferson City for this article, and Neela Banerjee from New York.

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY, Mo., Aug. 5 

 BODY:
On a day when oil prices reached a record high, Senator John Kerry issued a plan for energy independence on Thursday as he whistle-stopped across Missouri, promising to make the nation's security ''depend on America's ingenuity and creativity, not the Saudi royal family.''
 As Mr. Kerry left his motorcade of some 20 cars in St. Louis and boarded a diesel-powered locomotive, his aides unveiled a plan that they said would lower energy bills for consumers and re-establish the nation's leadership in developing renewable energy sources. 
 Among Mr. Kerry's new initiatives are a $5,000 consumer incentive to buy so-called clean-energy vehicles, incentives to manufacturers to retool their plants to use clean fuels, and a ''clean fuels partnership'' linking agriculture, industry and government with the goal of meeting 20 percent of the nation's demand for motor fuels with alternatives like ethanol, biodiesel and, eventually, hydrogen. He is also calling for national reliability standards and upgraded technologies, which he calls a ''smart grid,'' to prevent blackouts.
 ''We are going to reach for alternative and renewable fuels,'' Mr. Kerry said to tremendous applause in St. Louis on Thursday. ''We are going to reach for energy independence. We are going to create the jobs of the future, because I want America's security to depend on America's ingenuity and creativity, not the Saudi royal family.''
 Crude oil prices closed at a record high of $44.41 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Thursday. Gasoline prices have hovered around $2 a gallon in most of the country all summer, and last week the government reported that the economy had grown at a slower rate than expected in the second quarter, in part because of high energy prices.
 ''The truth is, it's not just hurting consumers,'' said Sarah Bianchi, Mr. Kerry's national policy director, ''but investors and the economy over all.''
 Mr. Kerry's railroad tour, which ends Monday in Kingman, Ariz., began after he detoured to Washington by airplane to address a national convention of minority journalists, where he was asked what would he have done had he been president on Sept. 11, 2001, if he was reading a story to a group of schoolchildren when an aide told him that the United States was under attack.
 ''I would have told those kids, very politely and nicely,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''that the president of the United States had something that he needed to attend to.''
 This was no hypothetical, of course: one of the most searing scenes in Michael Moore's polemical film ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' shows President Bush continuing to read a story to a class of Florida youngsters for seven minutes after his chief of staff informed him of the attacks.
 Also at the journalists' conference, which Mr. Bush is to address on Friday, Mr. Kerry was asked if he thought the comedian Bill Cosby was right in saying recently that African-Americans should take responsibility for their own economic status, incarceration rate and educational shortcomings.
 Mr. Kerry seemed slightly thrown by the question. After saying that ''all of us are responsible,'' he proceeded to suggest that Mr. Bush was more responsible than others, because public schools in black neighborhoods rely largely on property taxes, and because ''the great ethic of the politics of our nation'' is to cut taxes and spending, and ''because it's more important to get a tax cut to people earning more than $200,000 a year.''
 From Washington, Mr. Kerry flew to St. Louis to meet with his running mate, Senator John Edwards, and board a train for a whistle-stop tour through Missouri, Kansas and the Rockies that winds up in Arizona on Monday.
 In St. Louis, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards addressed thousands under the railroad shed of the old Union Station. ''I want to talk to the Show-Me State,'' Mr. Kerry shouted, ''and I want to show you, as John has shown you, that we can make a better set of choices that lift this country up. The middle class of the United States of America is playing by the rules. People are working two jobs, three jobs, and they're still not getting ahead.
 ''I'm running for president because the middle class deserves a champion, and the people struggling to get in deserve one,'' he said.
 Mr. Kerry threw some red meat to the partisans in St. Louis, including Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the onetime vice-presidential prospect whose introduction was cut short when loudspeakers started blasting music heralding the approach of Mr. Kerry's bus.
 ''There is nothing conservative about a certain attorney general from somewhere,'' Mr. Kerry said, referring to Missouri's own John Ashcroft, ''who silences the civil rights and civil liberties of Americans.''
 From St. Louis, Mr. Kerry's group boarded a special 15-car train -- including cars reserved for the Secret Service, an observation deck for journalists, and a Pullman coach built in 1914 that had been used by Presidents Bill Clinton, Jimmy Carter, Lyndon B. Johnson and Harry S. Truman.
 But in a sign of how closely fought the presidential race will be in Missouri, the sights and sounds along the route's first leg included plenty of chants of ''four more years'' and Bush-Cheney signs in and among the cries of ''three more months'' and ''hope is on the way'' placards.
 In Washington, Mo., after her husband had finished a shortened stump speech from the train's rear platform and giddily blown the train whistle four times, Teresa Heinz Kerry gave a taste of her alternately sharp and warm-and-fuzzy touch.
 ''You cannot solve problems by throwing stones,'' she said. ''And you cannot solve problems by telling lies. And you cannot solve problems by wishing ill to other people. The only way you solve problems is by holding hands and talking about it. And that's what we want to do in this campaign.''
 Here in Jefferson City, about 5,000 people waited hours at the State Capitol for the Democrats to arrive. Luana Gifford said she had skipped her own birthday party, though she declined to say which one. 
 ''This will be so much more exciting than my party would ever be,'' she said. ''For my present this year I don't want diamonds, I want John Kerry to be president.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Aug. 7 about a speech by President Bush to a convention of minority journalists referred incorrectly to a scene in the movie ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' that Senator John Kerry cited when he spoke to the journalists and criticized the president's handling of the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. The movie shows Mr. Bush, having learned of the attacks, continuing to listen to schoolchildren read a book with their teacher; it does not show the president reading to them. (The error also appeared in an article on Aug. 6 about a campaign appearance by Mr. Kerry in which he questioned the president's leadership on Sept. 11.) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Kerry campaign leaving St. Louis yesterday on a railroad tour. From left, Teresa Heinz Kerry, Senator John Kerry, Senator John Edwards and Elizabeth Edwards. The tour ends Monday in Kingman, Ariz. (Photo by Mike Segar/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); SALES PROMOTIONS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ETHANOL (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); CHILDREN (60%); WRITERS (60%) Energy and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) David M Halbfinger; Neela Banerjee; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); JEFFERSON CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



157 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Talk-Show Style, Ohioans Get to 'Ask President Bush'

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
''I feel like a talk-show host,'' President Bush said.
 He looked like one, too, during a campaign stop on Thursday in this epicenter of the 2004 campaign, Ohio, at an ''Ask President Bush'' event that was light on questions but heavy on testimonials from preselected audience members about how the president's policies had improved their lives.
 Pacing in his shirt sleeves, microphone in hand, in the middle of an invited crowd of 2,500 at the Aladdin Shrine Center, Mr. Bush seemed a combination of Oprah Winfrey and a salesman, offering himself to a state that has lost 225,000 jobs since he became president. 
 When Phil Derrow, the president and chief executive of the Ohio Transmission Corporation, told the president that despite Ohio's lagging economy, his business selling pumps and compressors had grown because ''we've benefited from your policies,'' Mr. Bush quickly replied, ''Keep saying that, will you?''
 A short time later, when Mr. Derrow told Mr. Bush that basically ''we sell air to our customers,'' Mr. Bush rejoined, ''You and I are in the same business.''
 The theme of the event was Mr. Bush's proposal for legislation that would let workers in private companies choose time off as an alternative to overtime pay, and permit them to work more hours in one week and fewer the next. Under the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act, most employees of private companies cannot choose time off as an alternative to overtime pay. But Mr. Bush barely mentioned the proposals, called flex time and comp time, in the nearly 90-minute event, and then only at the end when he prompted Mr. Derrow to bring them up. 
 ''He's got another interesting idea that I think is very important for the country to adopt: flex time,'' Mr. Bush told the crowd, as Mr. Derrow was in the middle of recounting his company's investments.
 ''I'm glad you told me what my interesting idea was,'' Mr. Derrow said.
 ''I'm not a lawyer, but it looks like I'm leading the witness,'' the president replied, to laughter.
 Mr. Bush then said: ''What I'm telling you is, I think the government ought to allow employers to say to an employee: 'If you want some time off, and work different hours, you're allowed to do so. If you want to accumulate time to spend with your family, spend with your parents, spend for being re-educated, you're allowed to do so.' Government ought to be standing side by side with people, not against people.''
 Despite Mr. Bush's brief treatment of the issue, the White House and the Bush-Cheney campaign sent out campaign papers and e-mail messages about the proposals while the Democrats held a pre-emptive conference call for reporters with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, to criticize Mr. Bush before he made his remarks. 
 ''This is another step in an absolutely shameless attack on people's right to work and be paid extra for work over 40 hours,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
 Mr. Kerry's spokesman, Phil Singer, said Mr. Bush's proposal would effectively cut pay for working families by permitting employers to force workers to take compensatory time instead of overtime. 
 Meanwhile, the proposal appears dead for this year since Republican leaders in the House withdrew the legislation in June because of a lack of support.
 Mr. Bush's trip to Ohio was his 20th there as president, and he acknowledged that many Ohioans had had troubles on his watch. During Mr. Bush's presidency, the state's unemployment rate has risen to 5.8 percent, from 3.9 percent. 
 ''Listen, I understand something about the job base in Ohio,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I know people are nervous. People are skittish. But there's jobs being created, and we're going to talk to a job creator here.''
 That creator turned out to be Linda Wagner, a registered nurse and the director of employee education at the OhioHealth hospital network, who at Mr. Bush's prompting spoke about its job training program, which she said has produced 41 graduates.
 Mr. Bush concluded, ''There are jobs in this new society, jobs in a high-tech world.'' 
 The questions from the audience that Mr. Bush asked for at the end of the event often came in the form of accolades. 
 One woman thanked him for his stance ''on the sanctity of marriage between men and women.'' 
 A man told Mr. Bush that he did not have a question, but ''three thank you's,'' which included gratitude for the president's ''availability to serve'' and for the fact that Mr. Bush's candle was ''burning brightly.''
 At the end of the day, Mr. Bush flew to a campaign rally of 7,000 people in Saginaw, Mich.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with supporters yesterday in Columbus, Ohio, where he discussed a proposal for overtime pay alternatives at private companies. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); FLEXTIME (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (72%); WITNESSES (60%) Labor; Election Issues; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Overtime; Law and Legislation; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Working Hours

COMPANY: OHIO TRANSMISSION CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423840 INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); OPRAH WINFREY (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; Columbus (Ohio) ; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



158 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: A Housing Plan in Need of Repair

BYLINE: By Alphonso Jackson. 
Alphonso Jackson is the secretary of housing and urban development.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
Section 8, the federal program created in 1975 to provide low-income families with the opportunity to rent safe and affordable housing in the private market, is broken. The Department of Housing and Urban Development has a plan to fix it. If Congress passes the flexible voucher program we have proposed, President Bush and I are convinced that we can better serve the two million families who depend on Section 8 -- and help even more Americans find affordable housing in the process.
 Over three decades, Section 8 has grown into an overly prescriptive and unwieldy program. It has separate rules for more than a dozen different types of housing vouchers, along with 120 pages of regulations. Costs have spiraled out of control, without a corresponding gain in benefits. 
 Five years ago, Section 8 consumed 36 percent of HUD's budget; today, it absorbs more than half. In the past four years, the financing needed for the program has increased by 41 percent, to $20 billion a year. This growth rate is not sustainable, and it has already begun eating away at other essential HUD programs. 
 In voting on the department's fiscal year 2005 budget last month, the House Appropriations Committee cut funds from almost every other department program in order to keep Section 8 going. Our HOME Investment Partnerships program, which gives states block grants to help people purchase, build and renovate homes, was cut by more than $85 million. President Bush's Samaritan Initiative, a vital part of the plan to end chronic homelessness by 2012, received no money at all. Neither did the Prisoner Re-entry Program, an effort with the Labor and Justice Departments to help the 600,000 people who leave prison each year make the transition to society. 
 In addition, HUD's supportive housing programs for the elderly and people with disabilities or AIDS were cut by a total of $56 million. And because that still wasn't enough to maintain Section 8, Congress even had to look beyond our budget and take money from the National Science Foundation.
 So, are the astronomical cost increases of Section 8 justified? Are higher percentages of people leaving the program and finding their own homes without government assistance? The answer to these questions is a resounding no.
 Here's the problem: under Section 8's current rules, Washington provides money to local public housing authorities around the country for a precise number of units each year, without regard to the number of families that could benefit from the same amount of money if it was used more effectively. This doesn't make sense. If a housing authority is limited to providing a specific number of vouchers no matter how efficient it is with the financing, what incentive does it have to control costs and serve more families? None. That's one reason the waiting lists are so long for Section 8 housing in many cities.
 Moreover, under the current rules, the dollar amount of vouchers for rental payments in every housing market is prescribed by a system known as ''fair market rent.'' Based on imprecise government data, these figures rarely reflect true market value. Over the past few years, most rental markets have softened and vacancy rates are the highest in decades. 
 Under our flexible voucher program, HUD would eliminate this requirement and provide each housing agency with a specific budget and would allow them to serve as many families as possible. How many more families could we serve? Consider this example from our own backyard: in the Washington ZIP code 20020, HUD provides 1,733 families with Section 8 vouchers to rent two-bedroom apartments. While the average rent for such units is $860, the average paid by the District of Columbia Public Housing Authority is $960. 
 Under our proposal, the authority could pay the actual market rent and would save enough money to aid 200 additional low-income families in that Washington neighborhood alone. Imagine what such a change would mean nationwide. And Washington is on the low end of the scale -- in other cities, the disparity in rents is far more egregious. There is another major change we would like to see. In 1998 Congress enacted a quota system that gives Section 8 vouchers almost exclusively to families making less than 30 percent of a given area's median income. This has had the unintended consequence of shutting the door for voucher assistance on men and women who are working hard and raise their income above the quota level, but remain too poor to afford a home. This is precisely the wrong message to send. The flexible voucher program, while still serving low-income families, would remove the quota system. Housing agencies would no longer have to discriminate against those moving up the economic ladder. 
 Congress needs to realize that the failed policies of the past are becoming more expensive than our proposed solution would be, and it should bring our proposal to a vote when it returns from summer recess. Our program would be more effective, efficient and flexible than the current Section 8 -- and, most important, it would better meet the needs of the low-income families who depend on it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITIES (77%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%) Housing; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Vouchers; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing and Urban Development Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Alphonso (Sec) Jackson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



159 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: A President Is Appointed at Freddie Mac

BYLINE: By BRIAN WINGFIELD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Freddie Mac, the giant mortgage backer, which is rebuilding its leadership after an accounting scandal last year, on Thursday named Eugene M. McQuade, a former executive at FleetBoston and Bank of America, as its new president and chief operating officer.
 Just eight months ago, Freddie Mac, which is based in McLean, Va., named Richard F. Syron, a former president of the American Stock Exchange, as chairman and chief executive after the company's primary regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, demanded that it make management changes.
 In an interview Thursday, Mr. Syron called the addition of Mr. McQuade, who will assume his new post on Sept. 1, and of several other new senior executives part of an effort ''to really make this a company of excellence.'' 
 ''We're demonstrating that we're bringing leaders into the company,'' Mr. Syron continued. ''We've also refocused the company on mission and put a strong emphasis on transparency and integrity.''
 Created by the federal government in 1970, Freddie Mac is the second-largest buyer of home mortgages after Fannie Mae. The company was intended to stabilize mortgage markets and to increase home ownership and rental opportunities. 
 Last November, an 11-month accounting review found that it had understated its earnings by nearly $5 billion over more than three years, as it sought to iron out earnings volatility and produce growth that was smooth and investor-friendly.
 Mr. Syron has said the company's troubles were the result of ''an accounting problem,'' and ''not an economic problem.''
 Mr. McQuade, 55, is a certified public accountant who has worked in financial businesses for decades and had something of a star-studded rise at Fleet. He joined the company in 1992 and was named its chief financial officer a year later, after mortgage lending and commercial loan losses led to a shake-up in which several top Fleet executives left. 
 In the next decade, Fleet acquired a number of other banks as it sought to become a nationwide consumer lender.
 In 2002, Mr. McQuade was named president and chief executive, and after Bank of America acquired Fleet in April, he became that company's president. 
 But he left a month later with a $25 million severance package, saying that ''the challenge in the short term just wasn't there.''
 Mr. McQuade said his primary goals at Freddie Mac would be to ''create value for shareholders and restore the reputation of this company.'' 
 He said his close relationship with Wall Street and his experience in working with regulators would help him steer the mortgage buyer in the right direction.
 ''I think what I bring is 30 years of experience in terms of managing large financial functions,'' Mr. McQuade said. ''What I can bring is some leadership. They're playing catch-up right now. Perhaps I can help them catch up a little faster.''
 Richard Bove, an analyst with Hoefer & Arnett, a brokerage firm and investment bank, said Mr. McQuade was ''thought to be the guy who turned Fleet around when Fleet got into trouble a few years back.''
 ''He's a very strong, hands-on type of leader'' with ''financial savvy,'' Mr. Bove said, adding, ''The guy's skill sets are very much in line with what Freddie Mac is looking for.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about Freddie Mac's appointment of a president, Eugene M. McQuade, a former executive at FleetBoston and Bank of America, misstated his last title at FleetBoston. He was president and chief operating officer, not chief executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); SCANDALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (62%); STOCK EXCHANGES (56%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (57%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (57%) Freddie Mac

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (79%) Eugene M Mcquade; Brian Wingfield

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004



160 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: HSBC to Pay $1.75 Billion For Stake in Chinese Bank

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings, Europe's largest bank by market value, will pay $1.75 billion for a fifth of the Bank of Communications, HSBC's third acquisition in China and the biggest by an overseas lender.
 HSBC is buying a 19.9 percent stake in the Bank of Communications, China's fifth largest lender, HSBC said in a statement. 
 ''It's a brave move,'' said Arthur Lau, an analyst with Barclay Capital in Singapore. ''Organic growth will be slow and costly, so teaming up with a local bank is the best strategy to tackle the retail market and Bank of Communications is the best fit amongst all the banks.'' 
 HSBC, Citigroup and global rivals are expanding in China -- the fastest growing among the world's 20 biggest economies -- and targeting a share of the mainland's $1.35 trillion in household savings. Foreign banks will be able to lend and accept yuan deposits from domestic customers at the end of 2006 as China fulfills a pledge made when it joined the World Trade Organization.
 HSBC's chairman, Sir John R.H. Bond, spent $46 billion on takeovers in the United States and Europe during the last five years, adding more than 70 million customers and making the HSBC the world's No.6 credit card issuer. 
 ''This investment is a vital and important step in building our business in China,'' Sir John said in a statement. ''For HSBC, this investment provides us with a new window for developing our business in China. In return, we offer Bank of Communications the opportunity to draw on our international expertise and network.''
 Buying a stake in the Bank of Communications gives HSBC access to 137 cities and more than 2,700 branches in China, HSBC said. The Bank of Communications, which had assets worth $111.9 billion at the end of 2003, is one of 15 commercial banks with a national banking license, which allows it to operate without geographical restrictions, HSBC said. 
 ''This is the final investment we will make in the name of HSBC in China,'' Sir John said, referring to the purchase of commercial banks. 
 HSBC, set up 139 years ago to finance trade between Hong Kong, Shanghai and Europe, has the biggest operation of any overseas bank in China. In 2001, HSBC bought an 8 percent stake in the Bank of Shanghai. It also bought 10 percent of the Ping An Insurance Company.
 China's national pension fund will take a 10 percent stake in the Bank of Communications, paying 10 billion yuan ($1.2 billion), the Chinese lender said. China's Ministry of Finance is investing 5 billion yuan ($605 million), and the Central Huijin Investment Company, a government unit set up to help bail out companies, is investing 3 billion yuan ($363 million).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir John R.H. Bond, chairman of HSBC Holdings, left, with Jiang Chaoliang, chairman of the Bank of Communications. (Photo by Doug Kanter/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); BAILOUTS (68%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS CO LTD (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%) Hsbc Holdings; Bank of Communications (China)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); 3328 (HKSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 2318 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: John (Sir) Bond

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



161 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: IN WASHINGTON; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Federal Roadblocks and Checkpoints Creating Capital Maze, City Officials Say

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
Each day seems to bring a new reminder that this is a city under siege by an invisible enemy.
 On Monday, following a terrorism alert naming financial institutions as targets, parking spaces were eliminated around the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. By Tuesday, the Capitol Police had closed a street and established 14 traffic checkpoints around Capitol Hill.
 By Thursday, the police were inspecting vehicles near the Federal Reserve. And by Friday, the Secret Service was planning to close a sidewalk outside the Treasury Department. More is to come, security officials said. 
 On its own, each measure might have seemed inconsequential. But together, they have brought an explosion of denunciations from local officials fed up with the growing maze of concrete barriers and guard posts around their city. They say the latest round of fortifications seems excessive, intrusive and even harmful.
 ''It's an overreaction,'' said Eleanor Holmes Norton, the city's nonvoting delegate in Congress, who contends street closings have created havoc for emergency vehicles and choked off the city's evacuation routes. 
 Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey complained, ''The city has to be able to function,'' predicting cancerous traffic jams when vacation season ends and Congress returns in September.
 And Tony Bullock, the spokesman for Mayor Anthony Williams, called the moves ''a decidedly knee-jerk reaction'' by federal agencies seeking to use the latest alert to impose security measures they had wanted long before Sept. 11, 2001. 
 ''It's not entirely clear what we're reacting to,'' Mr. Bullock said. ''The warning from the Department of Homeland Security was specific to certain buildings. We're seeing federal government agencies using that information to implement security measures that have no connection to that warning. What is happening in the capital is unsustainable.''
 Their anger, on one level, reflects the longstanding frustration of Washingtonians who have felt powerless to rebuff federal demands. The federal government is not only the city's largest landowner and employer, it also controls its budget and exerts virtual veto power over its laws. The Secret Service and Capitol Police even have authority over city streets around the White House and Capitol Hill.
 ''We are treated as a colonial possession,'' said Mark Plotkin, a political commentator on a local radio station, WTOP. ''We're not part of America, we're just props.''
 But on another level, many here are increasingly worried that the city is changing in fundamental ways. Institutions that were once beacons of open government, particularly the Capitol, have imposed stricter security than at any time in history, including when Washington was under imminent threat of invasion during the War of 1812 and the Civil War, historians said. Even monuments and museums are being encircled by protective walls.
 ''No question that security now is far greater than ever before,'' said Richard A. Baker, the Senate historian. 
 ''It has always been a strong article of faith that the building needs to be open to the public,'' he said of the Capitol. ''Fences come and go, but in the past, they usually have gone. Because there was always a sense that if this building is not open to the public, then the nation is in real trouble.''
 Federal security officials say that the advent of powerful truck bombs and suicidal assailants has made tougher measures unavoidable. They assert they have tried to work with city officials to ensure that expanding security perimeters are as unobtrusive as possible. 
 ''Secret Service really prides itself on working with its local partners,'' said Lorie Lewis, a spokeswoman for the agency. ''We do take into consideration the concerns of all affected.''
 But even the chairman of a commission that coordinates planning for the federal government worried that some agencies were hastily expanding security.
 ''I am concerned that we may have unintended consequences,'' said John V. Cogbill, chairman of the National Capital Planning Commission.
 For decades, Washington has seen a creeping expansion of protective barriers around government buildings. A bomb set off by the Weather Underground inside the Capitol in 1971 led to the installation of security cameras and metal detectors, Mr. Baker said. Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House was closed to vehicle traffic after the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995. 
 And after a man smuggled a gun into the Capitol and killed two police officers in 1998, Congress appropriated money for a visitors center intended to restrict public access to the Capitol.
 In the past, some powerful lawmakers, led by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, were able to resist such efforts to wall off the government, its museums and monuments. But Mr. Moynihan died in 2003, and few other members of Congress have been willing to oppose the heightened security since Sept. 11.
 And that has opened the gates to a flood of security measures by the federal government that local officials have felt helpless to resist. 
 Shortly after the terrorist attacks, for instance, the State Department closed C Street and removed nearby street parking, even though the department lacked the legal authority to do so, city officials contend. Similarly, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing regularly puts up ''no parking'' signs on meters outside the Mint, without city permission. 
 City officials contend that some federal agencies have even proposed replacing public parking with permit parking for their employees, claiming the restricted spaces would provide ''security buffers'' for their buildings. 
 Dan Tangherlini, the director of the city's transportation department, said the city was losing $100,000 a month in parking fees because of post-Sept. 11 security restrictions. And the closing of Pennsylvania Avenue and E Street near the White House has caused such severe disruptions that the city is studying plans to build a tunnel under the White House complex to speed crosstown traffic.
 Mr. Tangherlini can tell many stories about the battle over security. Shortly after Sept. 11, he said, he saw federal workers erecting barriers to close 10th Street outside the Energy Department -- without his authorization. He leapt out of his car and ordered the men to stop, threatening to call in heavy equipment to remove the barriers if they refused. They relented. 
 But it is one of the few fights he has won in recent years, he said. ''Sometimes I feel like Neville Chamberlain,'' Mr. Tangherlini said. ''If I tell them, 'O.K., you can close 15th Street, but that's all,' it's not going to stop them from asking for more.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: As federal agencies set up increasing numbers of checkpoints around Washington, local officials complained that they were an overreaction. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)Map of Washington D.C. highlighting the following latest changes:1. Security checkpoints2. Through traffic banned. Trucks, S.U.V.'s and limousines subject to inspection at checkpoints before entering safety zone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); VETO (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HISTORY (64%); CIVIL WAR (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



162 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Hundreds of Rebels Killed As Gun Battles Rage in Iraq
Gun battles raged for a second day between a militia force loyal to the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, left, and American and Iraqi forces in Najaf, raising fresh fears of an extended battle that could undermine Iraq's new interim government. Incomplete figures were given for American casualties, but commanders said 300 rebels had been killed. A1

The soldiers charged with mistreatment at Abu Graib prison have defended themselves by saying they were simply following orders, but there have been no witnesses and no evidence to back up that central assertion. A7

Israel Reopens Border Crossing
Israel opened a border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt that had been closed for nearly three weeks, allowing most of the more than 2,000 stranded Palestinians to return home. The crossing was closed because Israel believed that Palestinians were planning to attack the site. A6

Britons Suspends Author
The British Council, which promotes culture and learning around the world, has suspended one of its senior press officers, Harry Cummins, after it emerged that he is suspected of being the author of a series of newspaper commentaries attacking Muslims and denouncing ''the black heart of Islam.'' A6

Updating U.S. Cold War Base
The United States, Denmark and Greenland signed agreements to upgrade the early warning radar system at Thule, Greenland, an important American air base during the cold war and now a crucial part of the Bush administration's plans for an antimissile defense system. A4

Chechen Rebel Granted Asylum
Russia accused the United States of undermining the fight against global terrorism by offering political asylum to a leader of Chechen rebels fighting Moscow's rule, Ilyas Akhmadov. Mr. Akhmadov was granted asylum this week after the Department of Homeland Security scrapped an appeal against an earlier decision to grant him asylum. A5

Divided Nation Deteriorating
Tensions are running high between Georgia and its two separatist regions, and coastal patrol boats are under presidential orders to sink any vessel that may try to make an illegal port visit in Abkhazia, the breakaway region on the northwestern coast. A5

Timor Convictions Overturned
An Indonesian appeals court has overturned the convictions of three army officers and one policeman for crimes against humanity during violence in 1999 over East Timor's independence that left some 1,500 people dead. The court has also reduced the prison sentence of Eurico Guterres, who led paramilitary gangs recruited by the Indonesian Army. A2

NATIONAL A10-13, 16

Terror Suspect Was Sent To U.S., Officials Say
American intelligence officials now believe that Issa al-Hindi, the Al Qaeda operative now in British custody, was dispatched to the United States in early 2001 by Khalid Sheik Mohammed at the direction of Osama bin Laden to case potential targets in New York City. A1

Papers Allege Detainee Abuse
A brief unsealed in a Seattle courtroom contains an account by a prisoner at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, alleging that he was mistreated in several ways that may have violated the Geneva Conventions. A9

F.B.I. Searches Unexplained
F.B.I. officials would not explain why the homes of a doctor who has consulted on bioterrorism preparedness were raided, saying only that the man being investigated was not arrested in connection with the 2001 anthrax attacks. A9

Kerry Energy Plan Criticized
The idea of a United States independent of Middle East oil is a touchstone of John Kerry's campaign and a huge crowd pleaser, but it has divided and exasperated many of his most experienced energy advisers. A12

An advertisement by an independent group accusing Mr. Kerry of exaggerating his Vietnam War record came under fire by Democrats as new questions arose about the claims of one of the men calling Mr. Kerry a liar. A12

Bush Denounces a Perk
President Bush told a convention of 5,000 minority journalists that colleges should not give preferences for admission to the children of alumni, a position that put him at odds with his own history at Yale. A12

Upgrading Los Angeles Sewers
Los Angeles officials announced that they would comply with an environmental group's demands that they repair the city's dilapidated sewer system, the country's largest, after six years of legal wrangling and millions of dollars in legal fees. A10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

H.I.V.'s Racial Divide
AIDS is still a killer among African-Americans despite a dramatic decline in death rates from H.I.V./AIDS in the United States over the last eight years. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Video to Combat Terror Worries Transit Workers
New Jersey Transit conductors are being rattled by a Federal Transit Administration DVD intended to heighten awareness of potential terrorist activities on their trains. The agency has issued the videos as the Republican National Convention nears and security measures widen. B2

Many New Yorkers, fearing everything from terrorism to Republicans to congestion, are planning to leave during the convention. B1

Title Swapping in Albany
The State Senate minority leader, who announced earlier this week that Senator Ada L. Smith of Queens had been removed from a leadership post because of less-than-professional behavior, did not disclose that Senator Smith was merely swapping titles with another senator and would keep her stipend and other privileges. B1

Beliefs B5

No Hazard Found
The United States Coast Guard stopped the CSAV Rio Puelo, a container ship, off the coast of New Jersey after being alerted of a dangerous substance on board. The Coast Guard found many lemons, but no hazardous substances. B1

ARTS & IDEAS B9-18

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES B7

Rick James
The unabashedly bawdy funk-rock pioneer was 56. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Job Growth Stalled in July
Job growth ground nearly to a halt last month, the Labor Department reported. Employers added just 32,000 jobs in July, a small fraction of what forecasters had expected and far below the robust gains in employment earlier this year. The news reshaped the political debate over the economy's performance less than three months before election day. A1

The Dow dropped 147.70 points, to 9,815.33, 324.38 points below last week's close. The Nasdaq declined 44.74 points, to 1,776.89, 110.47 points lower than last week's close. C1

California Air Rule Weaker
California gave some ground to the auto industry in its ambitious plan to regulate global warming emissions from tailpipes, but the state is unlikely to avert a legal challenge. C1

Adelphia to Accept Bids
Adelphia Communications, which has operated under bankruptcy protection for the last two years, said that it would start accepting bids after Labor Day to buy the company. C2

Show Goes On Without Martha
Martha Stewart's company is trying to build a following on public television -- without her -- while her show, Martha Stewart Living, is on hold. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Bad news on the job front; Kenya's imperiled reform; Verlyn Klinkenborg on victory gardens.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B18
Crossword B16
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); AL-QAEDA (87%); RELIGION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); SENTENCING (75%); WITNESSES (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); WRITERS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); MILITARY BASES (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); MARINE VESSELS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); GREENLAND (92%); INDONESIA (92%); GEORGIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); EGYPT (79%); DENMARK (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



163 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Hartford Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Getting Back to Bland, or Heading Forward to Hip

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
It might seem that a city that spent six months aching for an end to a scandal that ultimately forced Gov. John G. Rowland from office would be relieved to return to its sedate self.
 Surely as the new governor, M.Jodi Rell, moves so conspicuously to remarket the Capitol as a place where the word ethics is not always followed by the word violation, a certain civic comfort would come with getting back to bland.
 Yet while politicians may be striving to be anything but provocative, Hartford itself, rather than reclaiming its enduring anonymity, is spreading its frayed wings. Bolstered by downtown construction and trendy new restaurants sprinkled on a handful of its historic streets, Hartford is confronting the identity crisis that has defined it for decades even as other New England capitals like Boston and Providence, R.I., have remade themselves. 
 Long caught between its role as insurance capital and its reality as a forerunner of the urban middle-class diaspora and the poverty it leaves behind, Hartford now is proclaiming itself at the brink of transformation -- to becoming hip. 
 Make that H.I.P., actually, the acronym for Hartford Image Project, the marketing campaign the city began three years ago but that now, as apartment buildings and a large convention center and hotel are rising downtown, boosters hope will play nationwide.
 ''Enough progress has now been made that the renaissance, the turnaround, or whatever you'd like to call it, is concrete enough to take the story nationally,'' said Michael Kintner, the project coordinator for H.I.P., which is responsible for the slogan, ''Hartford, New England's Rising Star,'' that appears on billboards, street banners and in advertisements.
 Renaissance, of course, is a word that rolls readily off the lips of people who sell struggling cities for a living, and even Mr. Kintner acknowledges there is not yet consensus that Hartford's star is in fact ascending. But believing counts for something, and Mr. Kintner's campaign, a collective venture of more than a dozen groups, has hired a New York public relations firm, Ruder Finn, to lure writers and editors to the city with the goal of changing perceptions.
 There is much work to do. The city, which has a population of 124,000, suffers from a high rate of poverty, a struggling public school system and a violent-crime rate that increased last year even as some neighborhoods improved.
 While Ruder Finn begins to study the city and how to sell it to the rest of America, Mr. Kintner is tweaking the local pitch. This summer, relying on what he calls a shoestring budget, he has placed advertisements on billboards near downtown that ask a question: ''When's the last time you did it in Hartford? That long?''
 Mr. Kintner concedes the double entendre of his advertisement but says he wants to generate more than middle-school giggles. He says the mission is to motivate a specific demographic -- people 35 and younger -- to go to Hartford to do whatever they typically might do elsewhere.
 ''We're challenging them: Let us take a shot at your perception,'' he said. ''Whether it's that they have none, which is much of the time, or it's that the town empties out at 5.''
 While Mr. Kintner works on the city's image, Mayor Eddie A. Perez faces the more fundamental problems. He has fought to keep property taxes under control, and he attended the Democratic National Convention in Boston as both a partisan politician and a Hartford ambassador.
 ''It's a hard sell,'' he said on July 29 while attending a lunch for the Connecticut delegation. ''I wouldn't be doing it if it wasn't a hard sell.''
 But Mr. Perez said he wants to make connections with people who may be players in Washington, so he can ''pick up the phone and call the secretary of housing'' when his city needs help. 
 He said he tells everyone he can that Hartford is a ''critical'' link between Boston and New York.
 Hartford can point to evidence of progress, from apartment buildings under construction near Bushnell Park to Adriaen's Landing, the $800 million convention center overlooking Interstate 91 and the Connecticut River, a legacy of Mr. Rowland's that is scheduled to be completed next year. A retail development, called Front Street, is planned across from the convention center, though its construction has been delayed by disputes over contract details.
 On a recent Thursday evening at Bin 228, a downtown wine and panini bar that opened last year, a young professional foursome sat at a back corner table.
 Zillah Matare, 30, who moved from Atlanta three years ago to work in human resources for United Technologies Corporation, said she had been pleasantly surprised by the city's diversity and new construction downtown. She and her husband bought a house in the Charter Oak neighborhood of the city.
 Part of Ms. Matare's job includes traveling the country to recruit for the corporation, and she conceded that she often works against negative impressions of Hartford that she hears from job candidates. 
 ''Two things,'' she said, ''Boring and cold.''
 But Ms. Matare, whose work has involved her with one of the city's economic development groups, MetroHartford Alliance, said she had refined her response to skeptical prospective employees.
 ''I come back with the opportunity to change it,'' she said, meaning the identity of the city, if not its climate.
 ''One of the pitches I use is, 'Hartford is like Providence was 5 or 10 years ago,''' she said.
 Mr. Kintner, too, pushes the long view. He says his group's studies show that more visitors are coming downtown and leaving with positive impressions. 
 Think less about what Hartford is in 2004, he suggested, than what it will be like living here in, say, 2021. 
 ''It really takes 20 years to turn around a city,'' he said. ''What year are we in? Three.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Kintner, of the Hartford Image Project, said the double entendre of his billboard slogan was intended to reach people under 35. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
Lawrence R. Gottesdiener, left, a developer, and Mayor Eddie A. Perez, taking sledgehammers to a corner of the Hartford Civic Center. The mall section of the center is to be demolished and a new mall built. (Photo by Bob Child/Associated Press)
 Zillah Matare, 30, who moved from Atlanta three years ago to work for United Technologies, said she thinks that Hartford has potential, ''but they have to do something about the lack of parking.'' (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ETHICS (73%); POVERTY RATES (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); CRIME RATES (65%); WRITERS (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); VIOLENT CRIME (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



164 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; TENNIS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Myskina Sues Magazine Over Two Topless Photos

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Anastasiya Myskina, the French Open champion, accused GQ magazine in a federal lawsuit yesterday of failing to prevent a photographer from reselling two topless pictures from a photo shoot to a Russian magazine.
 Some of the photographs taken by Mark Seliger appeared in the October 2002 issue of GQ. But this year's July/August issue of the Russian magazine Medved includes a topless shot of her, wearing jeans, on the cover, and three other photographs inside, including another topless one, according to the lawsuit. 
 Myskina, who is seeking at least $8 million in damages, said that the defendants -- GQ; its owner, Conde Nast Publications; and Seliger -- had agreed that the photographs would appear only in GQ and could not be resold.
 Her lawyers said in the lawsuit that the photos in Medved ''are highly embarrassing and have caused Ms. Myskina great emotional distress and economic harm.''
 The suit, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, accuses Seliger of profiting from her rise to prominence and it says that GQ and Conde Nast should have known that Seliger and his studio had sold the pictures to Medved without Myskina's permission -- and ''had a duty to prevent'' the sale.
 Maury Perl, a Conde Nast spokeswoman, declined to comment, and a call to Seliger's studio seeking a response was not returned. 
 ''It's not a question of being photographed nude,'' Alexander Berkovich, Myskina's lawyer, said in a telephone interview from his office in New York. ''It's about a decision that others made without her permission.''
 The topless photographs, he said, were not supposed to be published. 
 ''It was a total surprise to Anastasiya and to me,'' Berkovich said.
 Berkovich said that by selling the topless photograph to Medved, the defendants were showing that they ''want to capitalize on her status. Those photographs didn't show up for two years.'' 
 Myskina, 23, is the fourth-ranked women's tennis player in the world.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anastasiya Myskina, 23, is the fourth-ranked player in the world. She won the French Open in June. (Photo by Brian Bahr/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); DAMAGES (78%); TENNIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ATHLETES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



165 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Don't Look for a Sign; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Hot Spots Don't Want Just Anyone to Find Them

BYLINE: By MARY SPICUZZA

 BODY:
Charlie Freij can usually spot his new customers. They approach slowly, peering into the window. Or they stare in confusion at the large plank of wood above the door, a space most establishments reserve for some kind of sign. 
 But they will never find a sign at industry (food), an East Village restaurant and bar on Sixth Street that prides itself in consistently drawing crowds despite its utter lack of signs. ''We prefer to let our food and drinks speak for themselves,'' said Mr. Freij, 27, a manager at industry (food). 
 The no-sign phenomenon is nothing new: speakeasies never had signs, for obvious reasons. But industry (food), which opened two years ago, is one of many New York City bars, restaurants and clubs that have recently taken to new levels the seemingly contradictory tactic of attracting business by eschewing a sign. 
 Trendier, newer nightspots rebelling from the glowing neon signs that dominate neighborhoods like Times Square believe that the opposite tack has a more subtle appeal -- and will attract a more appealing crowd.
 Mr. Freij said regular customers recognize the glowing glass-topped bar that can be seen from the front window. And, for an extra hint, a menu with the bar's name on it is placed on a table that can be seen from outside.
 Not surprisingly, no signs can mean some confusion. For example, a bar named anatomy opened up next door to industry (food) about nine months ago. Again, no sign. (And again, no capital letters. But that's a different story.) 
 On a recent Saturday night, two of anatomy's customers, Andrea Cortina and Anne Bohraus, were standing outside waiting for friends when they noticed them next door, at the wrong bar.
 ''I don't like when they don't have signs. It's difficult. It's a pain,'' their friend Kamran Aydin said, after being directed toward anatomy. ''It is a trendy thing, but I don't think it works for me.'' 
 ''Oh, this is the bar?'' his friend Ian DeSacia said, less annoyed by the confusion. ''Probably after a drink or two I would have noticed.'' 
 Sean Hollitz, the owner of anatomy, conceded that some customers get lost, and said he may hang a sculpture outside to help them find their way. But a traditional sign? Nope. 
 ''Not having a sign, it creates mystery for the bar,'' Mr. Hollitz said. ''It makes it not just a tourist trap. Some of the best places in New York City are hole-in-the-wall places that don't have signs.''
 Mr. Hollitz and other new bar owners mentioned APT, a sign-free bar in the meatpacking district that opened in 2000, as an inspiration. 
 Few agreed on when the sans-sign minicraze actually began. ''No-names'' date back to Prohibition. Chumley's, at 86 Bedford Street, opened as speakeasy in 1922, and it still has no sign. 
 Unlike the joints of Prohibition days, of course, modern signless bars don't have to worry about police raids. Still, many say the appeal is in the underground atmosphere.
 ''I think there's a mystique about it,'' Timothy Pettolina, 31, said while standing outside 2A, a sign-free bar at the corner of Second Street and Avenue A. ''There's no big neon signs, and there's just something cooler about it. You feel like you're in on a secret.''
 His friend Jess Gangi, 31, agreed, adding that he liked the neighborhood atmosphere. ''I think it's a sign there are more New Yorkers than tourists inside,'' Mr. Gangi said.
 Or, as Seth Kamil, a tour guide, explained, ''It's fashionable to be unfindable.''
 Mr. Kamil founded Big Onion Walking Tours in 1991. He operates 20 tours through Manhattan and Brooklyn and said he has mixed feelings about sign-free establishments, which he thinks are rooted in the small neighborhood bars of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. But he said that the modern appeal also stems from excluding tourists and other mainstream, potentially uncool customers.
 ''It's bourgeois elitism, when you think so highly of yourself that you don't want to be around tourists,'' he said. ''What would New York be without tourists?''
 Mr. Kamil called the sign-free nightspots ''another wave in the ocean'' of trends that would not last.
 But Kathleen Hulser, public historian for the New-York Historical Society, said that for more than a century, many restaurants, bars and stores have avoided signs because of the city's complicated sign laws. She said ''no-name'' establishments played important roles long before speakeasies, during the temperance movements of the 19th century, and over the decades have continued to be part of New York's huge underground economy. 
 Ms. Hulser said sign-free establishments have filled a ''certain social need'' over the years.
 ''Manhattan is a strange place that constantly jolts between two extremes,'' she said. ''One is people's desire to be in a glamorous, well-known place. The other is seeking out places that aren't crowded, that aren't glamorous, where people feel unseen.''
 Luc Sante, author of ''Low Life: Lures and Snares of Old New York,'' said that most of the bars he went to in the 1970's had ''at the most a sign that said 'Bar.''' But he said the new nightspots working hard to seem underground were, in fact, creating a stereotype downtown. 
 ''By trying so hard not to be a theme park, it kind of becomes a theme park,'' Mr. Sante said. 
 Still, some club owners said that being sign-free was not a philosophical decision.
 Ilhan Ersahin, who runs Nublu on Avenue C, said he just never got around to getting a sign. The club, in Alphabet City, simply has a small blue light bulb illuminating its metal door and small staircase.
 Mr. Ersahin said that when his club, with both D.J.'s and live music, opened two years ago, people quickly found out about it through word of mouth. 
 ''It is kind of like a clubhouse,'' he said. ''The people that come here are artists and musicians, so it's a creative environment. People meet and join forces.''
 Customers just have to work a little harder to find it.
 ''Like, there's a yellow Lotto sign at the corner,'' Heather Brown, 22, said, while waiting in line outside Nublu. ''You do landmarks.''
 Club owners and customers said the sign-free aesthetic reached its zenith in Milk and Honey, a Lower East Side bar with an unlisted phone number and a location hard for even a reporter to find. 
 But after some effort, complete with multiple calls to disconnected phone numbers, the beautiful bar was discovered, much to its owner's horror. He quickly explained that his signlessness was not about being cool, but was aimed at keeping his six-table place from becoming overcrowded. He begged that his bar remain hidden and the address not be printed.
 Done.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ilhan Ersahin, right, the owner of Nublu in Alphabet City, says he just never got around to getting a sign. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Joanna Rivera and Derin Thorpe, a doorman at 2A, at an East Village bar with no sign bearing its name. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%) Bars; Fads; Signs

PERSON: Mary Spicuzza

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



166 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Caught in a Terrorism Snare

BYLINE: This article was reported by Ralph Blumenthal in McAllen, Tex., Ginger Thompson in Mexico City and Michael Wines in Johannesburg, and was written by Mr. Blumenthal.

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Aug. 4 

 BODY:
If Farida Goolam Mahomed Ahmed picked mid-July to swim the Rio Grande into the United States from Mexico, as the lack of an entry stamp or visa in her South African passport and the soaking wet jeans in her bag all but blared, it was not a case of great timing or finesse.
 At the quiet McAllen-Miller International Airport in this sun-baked border town of 106,000 eight miles inland from Mexico, as elsewhere, the Border Patrol and other security agents were on stepped-up antiterrorism alert. And with her Muslim name and South Asian features, the petite woman of 48 with long, jet-black hair who presented herself for a morning flight to New York on July 19 was not exactly inconspicuous.
 It did not help that she was carrying $7,300 in assorted currencies and that three pages were torn out of her passport. Or that she held business cards for an establishment across the border in Reynosa, Mexico -- a business that Mexican authorities say does not exist and may signify her reliance on the human smugglers called coyotes. 
 But more than two weeks after Ms. Ahmed was detained as a possible terror suspect, linking her fatefully to the alarm that the Bush administration sounded against threats of large-scale attacks by Al Qaeda, the government has yet to charge her with anything beyond re-entering the country illegally, a misdemeanor, and felony counts of mutilating or altering a passport for entry and lying to federal agents. 
 After three days in a Border Patrol holding cell with a concrete bed and no shower, and what her lawyers in court called a troubling four-day delay in bringing her before a magistrate, she remains in the custody of United States marshals in a county lockup near Harlingen. A federal grand jury is to begin hearing evidence in Houston on Aug. 16, said Michael T. Shelby, the United States attorney prosecuting the case. 
 South African officials say the United States has not sought their help in identifying Ms. Ahmed. The San Antonio office of the F.B.I., which is handling the case, did not reply to messages. 
 But while the investigation is continuing, and parts of her story remain enigmatic, some United States officials, lawyers and others say privately that Ms. Ahmed -- a divorced mother who came to the United States legally in 1996 and lived in Chicago and elsewhere for three years -- seems an increasingly improbable terrorist and that her case may have been publicly presented as unnecessarily ominous.
 Mr. Shelby said that her name was run through security indexes and that ''the record does not indicate she is a suspect in any other criminal activity besides U.S. immigration law.'' 
 Representative Solomon P. Ortiz, a Corpus Christi Democrat who is a longtime member of the House Armed Services Committee, was widely quoted after her arrest as maintaining that Ms. Ahmed's name did crop up on a watch list of suspected terrorists -- a claim that other officials say runs contrary to any known evidence. Mr. Ortiz, who was traveling, did not respond to requests to his Washington office for a telephone interview, but repeated though a spokeswoman, Cathy Travis, that ''multiple law enforcement sources'' had told him that Ms. Ahmed had traveled ''250 times all over the world.''
 Asked for Mr. Ortiz's source of information, Ms. Travis said: ''His kind of folks, multiple law enforcement guys, Customs, Border Patrol, Immigration, folks like that.'' 
 Eddie Flores, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in the McAllen sector -- 19,000 square miles of South Texas where 76,860 illegal immigrants have been apprehended since October, 20 percent more than last year -- said that Ms. Ahmed went through the usual F.B.I. automated fingerprint check upon detention and that no negative information came back.
 Ms. Ahmed's public defender, Kyle Welch, did not respond to calls about his client. But Will Harrell, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union in Texas, said: 
 ''It doesn't take much to trigger a lawful investigation, but nothing enables the government to treat people beneath the standards of the Geneva Convention and Vienna Convention. 
 Tshepo Mazibuko, a spokesman for the South African Embassy in Washington, said that Ms. Ahmed had not contacted the embassy and that United States authorities had not responded to requests for information about her, including copies of Ms. Ahmed's fingerprints to verify that she is a South African citizen. ''We are definitely worried,'' Mr. Mazibuko said.
 The Mexican authorities, denying they may have failed to intercept a possible terrorist, declared that Ms. Ahmed was not on any watch list and so could not have been stopped when she flew in from London on July 14. ''She did not fit any suspicious profiles,'' a high-level intelligence official in the Interior Ministry said.
 Ms. Ahmed's family members, interviewed this week in their home in Johannesburg, declined to answer some questions or give many specifics, but said that they had talked to her several times by phone and that she seemed confused about her case. They called her a longtime Johannesburg resident once in the auction and furniture business and now unemployed. They said she was not religiously or politically inclined and had no conceivable connection to Al Qaeda and terrorism. And they said she was not a frequent traveler. 
 ''Farida went to New York, or went to America, to work,'' said Riaz Bassa, a nephew who spoke for the others. ''You know, you hear about the American dream, the way people go to other places, to do bigger things. And this is what she wanted to do. She is not linked to Al Qaeda. She is not a religious person. Absolutely not. If you know her, you know that she is not religious. She is not Al Qaeda. She is a single parent who is very worried about the future of her kid. She is divorced from her husband. You know, she has to send the kid to school, pay the school fees and do all this type of thing. And she went to America, she was on the way to New York, yes. She was going to work.'' 
 Mr. Bassa did not deny that she might have sneaked in. ''She doesn't have an America visa,'' he said. ''She got declined before. So this was the route she took.'' 
 ''I think she just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time,'' Mr. Bassa said.
 A federal prosecutor, Lynn Cook, arguing for Ms. Ahmed's detention at a hearing in McAllen on July 27, said she came to the country legally in 1996, evidently overstaying her visa. ''She's been in this country for some period,'' Mr. Cook said, ''three years according to the pre-trial services report, with no legal status whatsoever in the country.''
 An F.B.I. agent, Garry Simmons, testified that Ms. Ahmed had a McAllen address in her phone book and acknowledged having a friend here. Mr. Simmons said agents had found a hotel where Ms. Ahmed had recently stayed in McAllen and interviewed a maid who seemed to recognize her. 
 As sketched in a four-page F.B.I. affidavit by another agent, Daniel V. Delgado, and an hour's court hearing, Border Patrol agents at the airport, checking every traveler, saw right away that her passport held no visa or entry stamp. It was only later when the wet jeans were found in her luggage and agents found three pages torn from her passport that, the F.B.I. said, she admitted ''she came through the bush'' and had removed the pages to eliminate the record of the route of her flights, which took her through the United Arab Emirates, London and Mexico. 
 Questioning stopped when she asked for a lawyer. Agents said they had her consent to go through her bags, finding the money along with passport-size photos of herself and photos of her daughter, Soraya, and her father, her divorce decree, gambling cards from the Taj Mahal and Caesars Palace in Atlantic City, a British phone card, a cellphone, a digital camera, an address book and an expired Illinois drivers license. Mexican authorities said she had an American Social Security card.
 Agent Simmons said he had asked her if she was a Sunni or Shiite Muslim. ''She didn't know,'' he testified.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stepped-up security is evident in border areas like the McAllen-Miller airport in South Texas, where a Border Patrol vehicle was on duty. (Photo by Brad Doherty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); MAGISTRATES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FELONIES (71%); GRAND JURY (70%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); EVIDENCE (68%); MARSHALS (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ARRESTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: SOLOMON P ORTIZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



167 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop on Weak Employment Report

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply yesterday, setting new lows for the year, after a surprisingly weak July jobs report heightened concerns about a slowdown in economic growth. The dollar dropped and bond prices shot sharply higher, pushing yields to their lowest since the spring. 
 The stock declines were across the board with only a few sectors avoiding the plunge. Each time stocks appeared as if they would bounce back, more selling sent them tumbling again, leaving all three market gauges near their lows for the day at the closing bell. Each dropped 1.5 percent or more. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is now off 4.3 percent for the year and is at its lowest level since December. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many technology stocks, is down 11.3 percent and is at its lowest since August of last year. The Dow Jones industrial average is down 6.1 percent for the year and is at its lowest close since November.
 The market has been stuck below its 2004 highs since February despite 25 percent growth in corporate earnings in the first and second quarters, in part because some executives have been very cautious about their outlooks recently. Investors also seem more wary. There have been net outflows from stock mutual funds in three of the last four weeks, according to AMG Data Services.
 The slower growth implied in the jobs data led some investors to shift their views of how high Fed policy makers might raise interest rates this year. While a quarter-point increase in the benchmark rate, to 1.5 percent, is still expected when policy makers meet on Tuesday, the odds for another increase in September have declined, according to activity in the futures market yesterday.
 There also may have been an important political twist in the stock market's decline. Stocks of companies whose earnings would suffer if economic growth slowed fell as expected. But one of the defensive sectors often sought out in a weak economy -- pharmaceutical companies -- also fell.
 ''A lot of people are saying that as the job situation goes, so goes the election,'' said Michelle Clayman, chief investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners. ''And they say that if Kerry becomes president, he will be tougher on the pharmaceutical industry than Bush would be.'' 
 While stocks sagged, the bond market rallied as investors ignored the effect of the high price of oil on inflation and focused on its drag on consumer spending. In New York, crude oil for September delivery fell 46 cents, or 1 percent, to $43.95, after reaching a record of $44.41 on Thursday.
 ''So far $45 oil has served to depress inflation expectations because oil has slowed the economy down,'' said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP.
 The drop in interest rates that came with the bond rally, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.22 percent, was the one bright spot on the day. If it holds, it could spur more mortgage refinancing and, in turn, more consumer spending.
 The stubbornly high price of crude oil and the decline across the board in industrial production, housing, retail sales and consumer spending in June had already put investors on guard about slowing economic growth. The increased threat of terrorist attacks in the last week intensified a fear that has been on the mind of investors and corporate executives since the Sept. 11 attacks.
 ''Corporate chieftains are telling me that they are scared about the terrorist threat and it is weighing on hiring decisions and it is weighing on business investment decisions,'' said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research. 
 The July jobs report was supposed to be a cure-all, at least for the economic worries, with forecasts for the creation of 240,000 jobs, after a weak 112,000 in June. But the actual number was even weaker than the June report, with only 32,000 jobs created in July, the lowest total since 8,000 in December.
 ''We thought the weakness was a blip, but it wasn't,'' said David Hegarty, head of United States equity trading at Commerzbank Securities. ''The whole move today is all jobs.''
 While the jobs report raised doubts about whether American consumers would continue to spend enough to keep the economy moving at even a moderate 3 percent pace, other signs showed that the economy still had momentum, even if not as much as hoped. Manufacturing and service industry indexes rose in July and retail sales for last month, based on auto sales numbers already released, are expected to bounce back from a 1.1 percent decline in June.
 Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, said the 3.5 percent growth in inflation-adjusted personal income in the past year through June is ''more than enough to fuel continued growth in consumption.'' While his forecast of 3.5 percent growth in the second half of the year is a little weaker than the consensus, he said the new jobs data would not force him to trim his outlook.
 But he said that the jobs report, ''taken at its face value, suggests that businesses are on edge'' because of oil prices and the terrorist threat and showed they were able to cut back quickly in response to the decline in consumer demand in June.
 David Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, said that if the growth in jobs slowed even more, ''the consumer will ultimately be forced to throw in the towel.'' 
 For the day, the S.&P. 500 dropped 16.73 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,063.97 and was down 3.4 percent for the week. The Nasdaq fell 44.74 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,776.89, and was down 5.9 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrials dropped 147.70 points, or 1.5 percent, to 9,815.33. 
 Economically sensitive stocks, led by Caterpillar and Ford, dropped 2.53 percent, according to Morgan Stanley's cyclical index. The S.&P. 500's pharmaceutical sector, led by Pfizer and Merck, fell 1.1 percent. In a reflection of the thought that slower growth will mean lower home mortgage rates, the S.&P. 500's homebuilding sector rose 1.1 percent.
 In the Treasury market, the price of the 10-year note jumped 113/32, to 1047/32, as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, plunged to 4.22 percent from 4.39 percent on Thursday.
 The dollar, hurt by slower growth and falling interest rates, dropped 1.8 percent against the euro, leaving one euro worth $1.2277, and 1.2 percent against the Japanese yen, to 110.36. 
 The question for investors is whether most of the bad economic news is in the market now.
 ''Barring a terrible geopolitical event, there is not a lot of downside for the market,'' said Ms. Clayman of New Amsterdam Partners.
 Mr. Hegarty of Commerzbank, agreed, although he said he had not yet seen signs of bottom fishing for beaten-down stocks.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas Brigandi, a senior floor official with Van der Moolen Specialists, watched declining numbers on a monitor at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday as stocks reached new lows for the year. (Photo by Henny Ray Abrams/Reuters)(pg. C3)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), March 2003 - July 2004. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since March 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press)(pg. C3)Chart:StocksGraph tracks the S. & P. 500 index (Friday: 1,063.97).BondsGraph tracks the 10-Year Treasury Yield (Friday: 4.22%).Oil pricesGraph tracks the oil prices, near-month contract (Friday: $43.95).(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); BONDS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); FUTURES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); PUBLIC DEBT (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Currency; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



168 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: California Softens Plan to Control Auto Emissions

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
California gave some ground to the auto industry on Friday in its ambitious plan to regulate global warming emissions from tailpipes, but the state is unlikely to avert a legal challenge from carmakers. 
 Under the revised plan, which would start to take effect in the 2009 model year, the industry would have eight years instead of six to reduce global warming emissions by about 30 percent. The changes to the plan were disclosed in the final draft of a staff report released Friday by the California Air Resources Board. 
 The plan could still be changed further because it now requires the approval of the 11-member board, which will conduct a hearing next month to make a decision on its staff's recommendations. 
 The plan is being closely watched by automakers around the world because it would have the effect of making them sell far more fuel-efficient vehicles in the nation's biggest market, California, after years of relying on Congressional allies to stall efforts to make cars more efficient nationwide. 
 And Northeastern states, including New York, are likely to follow California if its plan stands up to legal challenges. 
 General Motors, one of the last two automakers based in the United States, faces the toughest challenge in complying with the plan, the board indicated in its staff report. One reason is that G.M., which relies on sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, makes the heaviest vehicles, on average, of the major automakers. 
 ''It's going to take several days to digest this and be able to react,'' said Dave Barthmuss, a spokesman for G.M. in California. The report is 251 pages long. 
 Jerry Martin, a spokesman for the air board, said the change to the plan was an effort to help the industry comply. 
 ''This is a result of their input,'' he said. ''They operate on three-and-a-half to four-year cycles of building cars, and this better reflects those cycles. I don't know if they can support it, but just this change alone is favorable to them.''
 Environmentalists strongly support the measure as a way to reduce emissions linked to global climate change from a major contributor -- cars and trucks -- at a time when sales of big pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles continue to thrive despite high gasoline prices. 
 ''While we don't think the delay is necessary, this is still a reasonable, feasible proposal that is critical to drive new, cleaner technologies to market,'' said Roland Hwang, the vehicles policy director of the Natural Resources Defense Council.
 Automakers oppose the measure because it would be expensive and because they do not like the idea of states setting their own rules. In the new report, the board's staff increased its cost estimate, when the plan is fully phased in, to an additional $626 for the average car or small truck, up from $561. The increase for larger sport utility vehicles and other trucks would be $955, up from an earlier estimate of $871. 
 But because the vehicles are far more efficient, they will also use less gas. 
 ''These increased costs will be more than offset by operating cost savings over the lifetime of the vehicle,'' the report says. 
 California has long had authority to set its own air quality rules because its regulations predated the federal Clean Air Act. In addition, other states have the option of following California's rules instead of those of the federal government. 
 The debate over global warming and cars is complicated because there is no filter that can reduce those emissions, in the way that a catalytic converter can reduce tailpipe emissions of tiny particles that cause smog.
 A lawsuit is widely expected from the industry, on the grounds that federal fuel economy regulations supersede California's authority to regulate global warming gases, like carbon dioxide, that are linked to climate change. 
 Eron Shosteck, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said in a statement, ''Automakers will review A.R.B.'s final staff proposal to address its technical feasibility, economic impact and cost effectiveness, as well as to examine the final proposal in light of the federal pre-emption issue.''
 Mr. Martin, the air board spokesman, said: ''This rule is designed to reduce emissions from motor vehicles of greenhouse gases. It is not a fuel economy standard.''
 Though the Bush administration has opposed global efforts to regulate global warming emissions, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is also a Republican, has said he supports California's emissions plan. And he has kept in place Alan C. Lloyd, the chairman of the air board, who was appointed by Mr. Schwarzenegger's predecessor, Gray Davis, a Democrat.


GRAPHIC: Photo: California has the authority to set its own air quality rules because its regulations predated the federal Clean Air Act. Los Angeles, above, has had smog for years, but the new concern is global warming emissions. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%) Air Pollution; Automobiles; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Weather; Global Warming

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: California Air Resources Board

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



169 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Sent Suspect to U.S., Officials Say

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
American intelligence officials now believe that Issa al-Hindi, the alleged Qaeda operative now in British custody, was dispatched to the United States in early 2001 by the mastermind of the Sept. 11 plot at the direction of Osama bin Laden to case potential targets in New York City, senior government officials said Friday.
 The officials said that Mr. Hindi was the same person as the figure identified in the Sept. 11 commission report as Issa al-Britani. The account of Mr. Hindi's being dispatched to New York was based on claims by the mastermind, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, while in American custody, the report said. But American officials said on Friday that it is consistent with other evidence that Mr. Hindi headed a three-man team that surveyed the New York Stock Exchange and other buildings in New York, probably in early 2001. 
 Senior government officials said that Mr. Hindi -- the name is thought to be an alias -- was believed to have visited the United States several times in 2000 and 2001, the same period in which reconnaissance of financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington that was discovered last week is believed to have taken place. 
 The Joint Terrorist Task Force of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the New York Police Department was working on Friday to track Mr. Hindi's movements in New York, focusing on where he lived, anyone with whom he might have come into contact and how long he was there. One law enforcement official said investigators had identified some people in photographs that were included in the surveillance package and those people were being interviewed.
 ''It's fair to say there is an investigation ongoing to determine specifically where and when he was here,'' said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly.
 The accounts describing Mr. Hindi's role in the plot were provided by six different senior government officials in New York and Washington, all of whom had been briefed about the investigation. The officials, who were interviewed independently but provided accounts that were consistent, included those from law-enforcement and intelligence agencies who specialize in counterterrorism.
 The officials said information was being very closely held, and said investigators at some agencies were concerned that the publication of too much detailed information could jeopardize their efforts.
 In particular, intelligence and law enforcement agencies are now trying to identify and track down two other members of the team believed to have joined Mr. Hindi in gathering information, through public tours, helicopter sightseeing flights and other methods, producing detailed reconnaissance reports on five sites in Manhattan, Newark and Washington in preparation for a possible terrorist attack, senior government officials said on Friday.
 Mr. Mohammed was the mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, but law enforcement and intelligence officials said on Friday that they did not believe Mr. Hindi had been involved in that operation, and suspected that he would not have personally carried out any future attack that might be in the works.
 ''There was classic compartmentalization taking place,'' one of the officials said, adding, ''This guy doesn't know who was doing the operation.''
 Even so, senior American officials said they now regarded Mr. Hindi's arrest in Britain on Tuesday as the most significant capture of a Qaeda figure in at least a year, since the arrest in August 2003 of the Southeast Asian operative known as Hambali and the arrest of Mr. Mohammed in March 2003. 
 While the case reports now believed to have been prepared by Mr. Hindi and others are more than three years old, American officials continue to describe their existence as providing ample reason for current alarm against the backdrop of separate but more general intelligence suggesting that Al Qaeda may be preparing to carry out a major attack soon in the United States.
 Because he was the Qaeda figure most directly involved in the reconnaissance, the fact that Mr. Hindi was at large was seen as highly worrying to American officials last weekend, after the discovery of computer files in Pakistan first provided the Bush administration with information about the scope and sophistication of the surveillance. Even as they raised the terror alert on Sunday, American officials said on Friday, what weighed heavily on them was concern that Mr. Hindi and others who had gathered information about the buildings and written detailed reports about them were still at large.
 A law enforcement official said the reports provide several different alternatives for the attack, the official said. ''There are options kind of laid out as to how the buildings could be attacked,'' the official said. ''This is the type of thing you would take and give to an operator; who that is or if it was going to happen soon, nobody knows,'' the official said. 
 Mr. Hindi, who had been under surveillance in Britain even before last week, managed to evade the British authorities for several days until his capture on Tuesday. His role in the plot was apparently disclosed by Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, the Pakistani computer engineer who was arrested in Pakistan last month. 
 American officials cautioned that Mr. Hindi was ''a very, very slippery individual'' who was ''very concerned about surveillance'' and known to use many aliases, which cover more than a page in a document seen by one law enforcement official. Under his alias, which means the Indian, he is the author of a book published by an Islamic bookstore in London, Maktaba al Ansaar, under the title of ''The Army of Madinah in Kashmir.''
 A law enforcement official said that one passage in the book offered a statement to the effect ''that in order to get the West's eyes off of the Middle East, we're going to have to hit them in their economy.'' 
 A brief biography listed in the book described him as having been born in 1971, as the son of Indian parents who were Hindus, but converting to Islam at age 20 and fighting in Kashmir on the side of Islamic separatists backed by Pakistan. That account could not be confirmed, but a senior American official said he was believed to speak fluent Urdu, Arabic and English.
 American officials have said that the reconnaissance reports uncovered in Mr. Khan's computers in Pakistan were sophisticated, complete documents written in perfect English, and could only have been written by someone who was fluent in that language and had spent a considerable amount of time in the West.
 The Sept. 11 commission report, identifying him as Mr. Britani, says that Mr. Hindi was sent by Mr. Mohammed to Malaysia in late 1998 or early 1999 to visit Hambali, whose real name is Riduan Ismuddin, in order to learn about terrorism operations in Southeast Asia. It says that Mr. Hindi provided Hambali with addresses of people in California and South Africa to contact if help was needed.
 The second mention of Mr. Hindi in the report describes a trip said to have taken place in early 2001, when Mr. Mohammed ''sent Britani to the United States to case potential economic and 'Jewish' targets in New York City.'' The report describes the trip not as part of planning for the Sept. 11 attacks, but as evidence of planning for other possible operations, saying that ''while the 9/11 project occupied the bulk'' of Mr. Mohammed's attention, ''he continued to consider other possibilities for terrorist attacks.''
 The two passages in which ''Britani'' is named suggest that Mr. Mohammed himself was the main source for the accounts, in interrogations conducted by American officials on May 19, Aug. 14 and Aug. 18 of last year. It suggests that Hambali, in an interrogation on Sept. 12, 2003, corroborated at least the fact that he had been visited by Mr. Hindi. Both Mr. Mohammed and Hambali are being held by the Central Intelligence Agency at secret location centers outside the United States.
 American officials also said that Babar Ahmed, a British citizen arrested in London at the request of the United States, had ties both to Mr. Hindi and to Mr. Khan, the Pakistani computer engineer who has been at the center of the inquiry.
 The American officials left the impression that Mr. Khan may have been in electronic contact with Mr. Hindi and Mr. Ahmed as recently as last weekend, when he was already in Pakistani custody, as part of a sting operation. 
 In a speech in Washington, President Bush defended the decision to issue terrorism warnings over the weekend, even though some of the intelligence on which the government acted was as much as four years old. ''The threats we're dealing with are real,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 Mr. Ahmed, 30, was identified by senior American officials as a cousin of Mr. Khan who uses the alias Abu Khubayb and heads a militant British-based organization known as the Abu Khubayb group. The American officials said they had sought his arrest in a belief that he was linked to the possible plot against the United States.
 At a hearing in London on Friday, Mr. Ahmed expressed opposition to an extradition request by the United States. An American lawyer presented evidence that Mr. Ahmed, who has been arrested and released by the British authorities on terrorism charges in the past, had been found last December to be in possession of sensitive documents showing the position of American warships in the Persian Gulf during 2001 among other things.
 An arrest warrant issued by the United States attorney's office in New Haven, Conn., said that Mr. Ahmed was wanted for his role in raising money through e-mail messages and American Web sites for terrorist causes in places like Chechnya and Bosnia. But while they did not minimize those charges, senior American officials said the decision to seek his arrest now had been based on the belief that he was working with Mr. Khan, Mr. Hindi and others in the suspected plot against American financial institutions.
 It is not clear whether Mr. Ahmed has ever traveled to the United States. As for Mr. Hindi, some law enforcement officials said they were convinced that he had himself conducted surveillance on at least three American targets, including the New York Stock Exchange and the Citigroup building in Manhattan, and the Prudential center in Newark.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Qaeda figure in British custody is said to have written this book.
(Photo by ABC News exclusive via Associated Press)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A8)Chart/Photos: ''Arrests of Suspects In Surveillance Plot''Pakistani and British authorities, assisted by American intelligence and law enforcement, have made several recent arrests linked to the surveillance of five financial buildings in New York, New Jersey and Washington. Here is a look at four of the main figures.NAME: Muhammad Naeem Noor KhanWHEN ARRESTED: July 13WHERE: Lahore, PakistanDESCRIPTION: 25-year-old Pakistani computer engineer, said to be an important Qaeda operative and facilitator of communications. Trained at a Qaeda camp in Afghanistan in 1998. His computers are said to have contained detailed computer surveillance records of the five buildings.NAME: Ahmed Khalfan GhalianiWHEN ARRESTED: July 25WHERE: Gujrat, PakistanDESCRIPTION: A Tanzanian Qaeda operative, on the F.B.I.'s list of 22 most wanted terrorists for his alleged role in the 1998 East African embassy bombings. His computer is also said to have contained records of the surveillance.NAME: Issa al-HindiWHEN ARRESTED: Aug. 3WHERE: EnglandDESCRIPTION: Said to be a senior Qaeda operative sent by Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the planner of the Sept. 11 attacks, to the United States in early 2001 to survey possible targets in New York. Also believed to have visited the operative known as Hambali in Indonesia in late 1998 or early 1999.NAME: Babar AhmedWHEN ARRESTED: Aug. 5WHERE: LondonDESCRIPTION: 30-year-old British citizen, believed to be a cousin of Mr. Khan, and head of the Abu Khubayb group, a militant British-based organization. The arrest warrant was for raising money on the Internet for terrorist causes, but he is believed to be linked to the suspected plot. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); HELICOPTERS (60%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



170 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Beliefs; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: On the stump, in the rights arena, echoes of a religious thinker's vision live on.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
A century ago, Walter Rauschenbusch was the leading thinker of what was first known as ''social Christianity'' and then simply as the social gospel. The textbooks say that by 1918, the social gospel, like Rauschenbusch himself, was on its deathbed; but in fact its genes lived on in religious responses to the Depression and helped shape the civil rights movement of the 1960's. 
 Indeed, traces of social gospel DNA can be found almost anywhere that religion mixes with American politics--in President Bush's religion-based initiative and his talk of ''compassionate conservatism,'' for instance, as well as in Senator John Kerry's effort to close the ''God gap'' between more religious and less religious voters by preaching how values must be manifest in actions and not just slogans. 
 For Rauschenbusch, the central theological idea of the social gospel was the kingdom of God. Standing in a line of Jewish prophets, Jesus had proclaimed, in the words of the Lord's Prayer, ''thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.'' Christianity had lost the centrality of this call to regenerate society in accord with God's will, Rauschenbusch argued, as the church came to focus on otherworldliness, on the salvation of individual souls, and on its own power. 
 The high point of Rauschenbusch's influence stretched from 1907, when he published ''Christianity and the Social Crisis,'' still a classic religious text, to 1914, when the outbreak of World War I cast a shadow on his idealism. 
 But the roots of his theology went back to the decade, from 1886 to 1897, that he spent as a young pastor of the Second German Baptist Church in the notorious Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of New York. The poverty, disease and desperation he encountered among tenement-bound laborers and immigrants convinced him, as it had a growing number of religious leaders, that Christianity had to address the stark social divisions and economic dislocations then racking American cities. 
 ''The Kingdom Is Always But Coming'' (Eerdmans), a new biography of Rauschenbusch by Christopher H. Evans, relates how the young pastor ''felt an agony over the number of funerals he had to conduct, especially for children who died as a result of poverty-induced disease.''
 '''Oh, the children's funerals! They gripped my heart -- that was one of the things I went away thinking about -- why did the children have to die?''' it quotes Rauschenbusch as saying. 
 The biography points up the many seemingly contradictory elements in Rauschenbusch's outlook. He was justifiably seen as a religious radical, and yet he remained in many respects a conventional white male Victorian-era middle-class Protestant, a kind of revolutionary on behalf of conservative values. Not only were strong families the basis of a good society in his view, but women at home as wives and mothers were the basis of strong families. 
 Like many other social gospelers, he gave little attention to racism, which he considered a problem of the American South. He viewed the new waves of Roman Catholic immigrants with apprehension, and anti-Catholicism runs like a dark thread through his theological thought. Taking for granted the cultural primacy of Protestantism, he could couch his calls for fundamental social reform in terms of ''Christianizing America'' without any self-consciousness.
 Some of these juxtapositions can be jarring, but others remind us of a time when later ideological and religious categories were still in flux. Protestantism was moving in two directions at once. Nascent premillennial fundamentalism emphasized biblical inerrancy and the approaching end times. Burgeoning postmillennial Protestant liberalism welcomed academic biblical criticism and adapting doctrine to modern conditions. But these two forces had not yet split Protestantism into two warring camps. 
 From his German Lutheran pietist and Baptist background, Rauschenbusch inherited an evangelical emphasis on personal conversion and religious experience, and he could combine that emphasis with a theology based on recent biblical scholarship and the liberal emphasis on Jesus' earthly ministry rather than atonement by death on the cross. Socialism, like Protestantism, in those decades before Lenin and Bolshevik totalitarianism, was in flux. Rauschenbusch could call himself a socialist, although he never denigrated the market. He advocated standard Progressive-era reforms and, while deploring gross inequalities of wealth, remained friends with John D. Rockefeller. 
 The social gospel has not fared well at the hands of historians and theologians. In the first volume of his three-volume history, ''Modern American Religion,'' Martin E. Marty describes most social gospel exponents as ''vague on program, weak on detail, generally out of touch with laborers, inept at politics''--only to add quickly that they ''were still prophets of a new order.'' 
 Theologically, the social gospel has never quite escaped Reinhold Niebuhr's critique of liberal Protestant reform efforts as naively optimistic and sentimental about the force of love, unwilling to acknowledge the realities of self-interest, conflict, sin and tragedy. 
 Mr. Evans's biography confirms some of these criticisms, but it refutes others, at least in the case of Rauschenbusch, who never rejected individual conversion and salvation for social transformation but melded them together, who did not believe in inevitable progress, who rejected utopianism, acknowledged social conflict, had a real sense of the tragic and emphasized the place of the cross and suffering in his theology. 
 It is a melancholy story that Mr. Evans tells, nonetheless. By the age of 30, Rauschenbusch had become almost totally deaf, which contributed, despite a marvelous marriage, to a lifelong loneliness and a sense of failure at being unable to pass on his religious faith to his children. But it was World War I, when as a German-American he found his pleas for peace and neutrality suspect, that especially darkened his final years. 
 Yet his message stayed bright. Four decades later, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote, ''It has been my conviction ever since reading Rauschenbusch that any religion which professes to be concerned about the souls of men and is not concerned about the social and economic conditions that scar the soul, is a spiritually moribund religion only waiting for the day to be buried.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LITERATURE (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (75%); WORLD WAR I (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%) Christians and Christianity; Books and Literature

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (53%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Peter Steinfels; Walter (1861-1918) Rauschenbusch; Christopher H Evans

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



171 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE JOB PICTURE: THE DATA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: A Job Picture Painted With Different Brushes

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
July was a poor month for job creation in the United States.
 July was an excellent month for job creation in the United States.
 That tale of two employment reports is true, and it continues a trend that has persisted for two and a half years. The discrepancies have made it possible for Republicans to herald a job recovery and for Democrats to deny one exists. 
 Both sets of statistics were issued by the government's Bureau of Labor Statistics, but they come from very different surveys. One, the establishment survey, which questions 160,000 employers, paints the bleak picture. The other, the household survey, which questions 60,000 people about whether they or other family members are working, paints the better picture.
 Which is right? Because of its smaller sample size, the household survey is always more volatile, and month-to-month changes can be deceptive for that reason. So economists normally pay more attention to the establishment survey. But the fact that they differ so drastically may mean that reality lies somewhere in between.
 Over all, the household survey now shows that employment has risen by 1.9 million jobs, or 1.4 percent, since President Bush took office, while the establishment survey shows employment is down by 1.1 million jobs, or 0.8 percent.
 The establishment survey concluded that July was a poor month, with a seasonally adjusted job growth of just 32,000 jobs, far below what economists were expecting.
 On a nonseasonally adjusted basis, the performance was even worse. It showed that there were 1.2 million fewer people working in the United States in July than in June. The adjustment in part reflects seasonal workers who are not paid for the summer, like some school employees. 
 The household survey, on a seasonally adjusted basis, showed a gain of 629,000 jobs in July. Before seasonal adjustment, the gain was an even larger 839,000 jobs. That may partly reflect the fact there are more agricultural jobs in the summer -- which are included in the household survey but not in the establishment one -- or that some workers who have the summer off would normally say they had jobs although they had not worked in July. 
 The household survey is used to calculate the unemployment rate, which fell to 5.5 percent in July, the lowest figure since October 2001.
 The two surveys are not intended to produce the same results. The household survey includes the self-employed as well as agricultural workers, who would not be counted in the establishment survey, and the establishment survey counts each job so that a worker with two jobs could be counted twice.
 But over time the two surveys have been roughly similar, although with an interesting political difference. Republican administrations tend to produce better household numbers than establishment ones -- perhaps reflecting a better environment for the self-employed. Democratic administrations tend to show better establishment figures. 
 Early in the Bush administration, which took office just as the economy was sliding into a recession after a period of prolonged growth that saw unemployment sink to historically low levels, both surveys showed a shrinking work force. But they began to diverge in early 2002, with the household survey finding steady job gains, while the establishment survey continued to show a shrinking number of people with jobs.
 By the time the establishment survey hit bottom, in August 2003, it indicated that 705,000 jobs had vanished since January 2002, bringing the total job loss in the Bush administration to 2.6 million. But the household survey found that nearly 2 million jobs had been added since January 2002, almost reversing the job losses earlier in the Bush administration.
 Since then, the two surveys have fluctuated, but the establishment survey has continued to paint a bleaker picture than the household one. 
 Going back to Harry Truman, Mr. Bush -- by either measure -- has presided over an economy that has produced the poorest job creation record of any occupant of the White House to this point in a presidential term. The second worst was turned in by President Bush's father, who failed to win a second term in 1992.
 But good job records also do not guarantee electoral success. The two best terms by that measure ended in 1968, when Lyndon Johnson was president, and in 1980, when Jimmy Carter was in the White House. In each year the Democrats were thrown out of the White House by dissatisfied voters.
 A Democratic partisan would note that six of the seven best presidential terms, as measured by the establishment survey through the first three and a half years, have been under Democratic presidents, with the only Republican to make that list being Ronald Reagan in his second term, when jobs grew by 9.5 percent. The seven worst by that measure were all Republican administrations.
 On average, the establishment survey has shown a 10.1 percent rise under Democrats and a 4 percent gain under Republicans. The household survey has shown a less marked preference for Democrats, whose edge is 6.7 percent to 4.8 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: For Americans looking for jobs, July was either bleak or promising depending on two very different employment reports issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C1)Graph:Two surveys of jobs by the Bureau of Labor Statistics yield different data. Cumulative change since January 2001, measured monthly, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks the cumulative change in both surveys (Household survey, Establishment survey) since 2001.Household survey: + 1.87Establishment survey: - 1.12(pg. C1)Chart: ''Surveys Say . . .''Job growth during a president's term is different depending on which government survey is used. The establishment survey questions employers while the household survey questions people about whether they or other family members are working.Job growth in first 42 months of presidential termsLyndon B. Johnson, DBEGINNING OF TERM: '65ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: +14.3%HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +8.7%Jimmy Carter, DBEGINNING OF TERM: '77ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: +11.3HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +9.9Ronald W. Reagan, RBEGINNING OF TERM: '85ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 9.5HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +8.2Bill Clinton, DBEGINNING OF TERM: '93ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 9.3HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +6.6ClintonBEGINNING OF TERM: '97ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 8.9HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +6.4John F. Kennedy Johnson, DBEGINNING OF TERM: '61ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 8.8HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +5.5Harry S. Truman, DBEGINNING OF TERM: '49ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 7.8HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +3.1Richard M. Nixon, RBEGINNING OF TERM: '69ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 6.2HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +7.1Nixon-Gerald R. Ford, RBEGINNING OF TERM: '73ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 5.2HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +7.1ReaganBEGINNING OF TERM: '81ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 4.1HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +5.5Dwight D. Eisenhower, RBEGINNING OF TERM: '53ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 3.6HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +3.6EisenhowerBEGINNING OF TERM: '57ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 2.7HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +3.6George H. W. Bush, RBEGINNING OF TERM: '89ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: + 1.5HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +1.7George W. Bush, RBEGINNING OF TERM: '01ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY: - 0.8HOUSEHOLD SURVEY: +1.4(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FARM LABOR (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FAMILY (78%); TRENDS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); AGRICULTURE (66%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Labor

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (76%); RICHARD NIXON (71%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (56%) Floyd Norris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



172 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE JOB PICTURE: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: SLOW JOB GROWTH RAISES CONCERNS ON U.S. ECONOMY

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Job growth ground nearly to a halt last month, the Labor Department reported yesterday, raising new concerns about the economy's strength and reshaping the political debate over its performance less than three months before election day. 
 Employers added just 32,000 jobs in July, a small fraction of what forecasters had expected and far below the robust gains in employment earlier this year. The government also announced that job growth in May and June was less than initially estimated.
 ''The economy is spinning its wheels again,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research in New York. ''Corporate America is reluctant to hire anyone above the bare minimum.'' 
 The unemployment rate fell slightly last month, to 5.5 percent, but it is based on a smaller survey than the job growth numbers, which are widely considered the more reliable gauge of employment. [Page C1.] 
 The disappointing numbers are likely to rekindle fears that the relationship between economic growth and job creation has changed in important ways. With technology allowing companies to produce more goods without adding workers and some jobs moving to lower-wage countries, there are about a million fewer jobs today than there were in early 2001 even though the economy emerged from recession later that year and has been growing since then.
 For President Bush, the new evidence creates a nettlesome political situation, making it harder for him to cite strong job gains as proof that the tax cuts he championed at the start of his term were the best cure for the economy's problems. 
 The weak increases of the last two months now mean that Mr. Bush is highly likely to stand for re-election with an employment level lower than it was on his Inauguration Day. That would be the first time that has happened since 1932, when the country was mired in the Depression and enduring far worse job losses than any it has experienced recently.
 Despite the disappointing job figures, White House officials said that the economy was continuing to grow and that the policies they had put in place would do a better job of fostering further growth than Democratic proposals. 
 ''We're not satisfied with today's payroll employment number,'' N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, said. But he argued that the fall in the jobless rate and a recent decline in claims for unemployment insurance suggested that the job market could be healthier than yesterday's report made it seem.
 ''The underlying economy, if you look at all the data put together, still looks like it's going in the right direction,'' Mr. Mankiw said. 
 But Democrats countered that yesterday's report provided a compelling indictment of Mr. Bush's economic policies.
 ''It's premature for George Bush to raise the banner of 'Mission Accomplished' above the economy,'' Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, said. ''If you're in the middle class, the economy has not turned the corner.''
 On Wall Street, stocks fell broadly after the release of the report, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closing down more than 1 percent. The dollar dropped against the euro, and long-term interest rates declined as well. Despite the disappointing figures, most economists continue to expect the Federal Reserve to raise its benchmark short-term rate next week.
 The fallout from the hiring slump has spread to many employed workers in recent months, as pay raises have failed to keep up with inflation. Over the last 12 months, weekly pay for rank-and-file workers, who make up about four-fifths of the work force, has risen only 2.3 percent, while prices have increased more than 3 percent. But the best sign in yesterdays otherwise grim report may have been the earnings gain in July, erasing an outright decline in June. Average weekly pay for rank-and-file workers rose $3.25, to $529.09, in July.
 The economy's recent slowdown seems to stem largely from higher energy costs and the gradual disappearance of government stimulus as tax savings have been spent and the effect of lower interest rates has lost its punch. Recent increases in interest rates have caused mortgage refinancing to fall sharply, while higher oil prices have left businesses and households with less money to spend on other items.
 ''The escalation in energy prices is being driven not by supply and demand but by fear and uncertainty'' about events in the Middle East, said Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation, a bank based in Cleveland. ''My own view is that oil prices are set for a fall, but I would have said that three months ago.''
 The crimp in family budgets appeared to affect hiring last month, as retail employment fell for the first time since December, according to the Labor Department, which adjusts its statistics to smooth over normal seasonal changes. Banks, hotels, movie studios and phone companies all reduced their work forces, too. Government employment remained flat, as it essentially has for the last few months.
 For the first time this year, more industries cut jobs last month than added them, the government reported.
 Sectors that rely more on corporate investment than consumer spending helped make up for the losses. Manufacturers added 10,000 jobs, just the fifth positive month for the sector since the summer of 2000. Construction companies added jobs as well.
 In other positive signs, the average length of unemployment fell, as did the number of people saying they were working part-time because they could not find a full-time job.
 As part of its regular revisions, the Labor Department said that the economy added a total of 286,000 jobs in May and June, 61,000 fewer than reported earlier. Combined with the weak job growth for July, the revisions mean that the economy had 270,000 fewer jobs last month than forecasters had thought.
 Before the report was released, the general expectation among Wall Street analysts was that the economy had added about 240,000 in July, far more than the 32,000 the Labor Department found. 
 The Fed next meets on Tuesday, and economists and investors predict that it will still raise its benchmark rate a quarter percentage point, to 1.5 percent. The Fed lowered the rate to an almost 50-year low last summer to help keep the economy from falling into a new downturn, and Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has said he plans to lift the rate gradually over the coming year. 
 The weak recent job growth raises the chances that the moves will come more slowly and sporadically than previously thought, analysts said.
 The contrast between last month's paltry job growth and the drop in the jobless rate raised new questions about the surveys that produce each number. The job-growth figures come from a poll of 400,000 places of employment with about 45 million workers. Private and government economists, including Mr. Greenspan, consider it the more accurate survey.
 In a separate report yesterday, the Labor Department described the survey as ''a highly reliable gauge.''
 But it is not perfect, economists add, and the household survey -- which produces the unemployment rate after asking questions of 60,000 households -- suggests that the labor market might be somewhat stronger than the business survey indicates. 
 The Labor Department will release two more employment reports before the November election.


GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph tracks the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls, seasonally adjusted since 2001.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in July''UNEMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the civilian unemployment rate from Aug. 2003 - July 2004.Civilian unemployment: 5.5 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteMay: 5.0%June: 4.8%BlackMay: 10.1June: 10.9Hispanic*May: 6.7June: 6.8Asian+May: 5.0June: 4.3Men 20 and overMay: 5.0June: 4.9Women 20 and overMay: 5.0June: 4.9Teenagers (16-19)May: 16.8June: 17.6OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalMay: 8.2June: 8.2Lost jobMay: 4.1June: 4.2Left jobMay: 0.9June: 0.9Returning to labor marketMay: 2.4June: 2.3New to labor marketMay: 6.4June: 6.8'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working part-time, but want full-time workMay: 4.5June: 4.5'Marginally attached workers'$SMay: 1.5June: 1.6EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks the number of people employed from Aug. 2003 - July 2004.Nonfarm payroll survey: 131.3 millionHousehold survey: 139.7 millionBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmMay: 131.2June: 131.3GoodsMay: 21.9June: 21.9ServicesMay: 109.3June: 109.4AgricultureMay: 2.3June: 2.3SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedMay: 62.3%June: 62.5%Labor force (workers and unemployed)May: 66.0June: 66.2Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.$SPeople not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2)Graph: ''Consumer Borrowing''Graph tracks the net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding
 in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted from Jan. 2003 - June 2004.Annual Pace of ChangeJune: +3.9%May: +4.8April: +3.5(Source by Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INDICTMENTS (65%); TAX LAW (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



173 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE JOB PICTURE: THE CAMPAIGN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Low Numbers, New Problem

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
All week long, President Bush traveled the country, cheerfully telling audiences that ''we've turned the corner'' on the economy. But on Friday, in the face of the government's paltry new numbers on job growth, the president's new slogan suddenly sounded premature at best.
 Republicans had hoped the early indications this year that the economy was turning the corner would have allowed them to neutralize, or even turn to their advantage, the issue that John Kerry had once considered central to his White House bid. Instead, the new numbers, coming just three weeks before the G.O.P. convention, leave little doubt that the economy could still be a potent issue for the Democrats.
 Rather than address his vulnerability head-on Friday, Mr. Bush delivered an upbeat assessment of the economy, saying it was getting stronger and lauding the American entrepreneurial spirit. ''There's more work to do to make this economy stronger,'' he said at a rally at a farm in Stratham, N.H. ''We've been through a recession, we've been through corporate scandals, we've been through a terrorist attack. But we've overcome these obstacles, because our workers are great, because our farmers are really good at what they do. We've overcome these obstacles because the entrepreneurial spirit is strong.'' 
 This prompted cheers of ''four more years.''
 At the same time, Senator Kerry seized on the numbers with relish. At a farm in Smithville, Mo., outside Kansas City, Mr. Kerry made fun of Mr. Bush, though not by name. ''In the last few days you've heard people in positions of leadership on the other side saying America has turned the corner,'' he said. ''Well, it must have been a U-turn, or else they're continually turning and they're going around in circles and ending up right back where they started from.''
 The timing of the new economic numbers is particularly perilous for Mr. Bush because he is trying to build momentum in the run up to his convention. It is also the period in the presidential campaign when voters' perceptions begin to harden.
 After a sweep of encouraging economic news through the spring, the disappointing numbers in the last two months -- capped by the ones on Friday -- gives weight to the Democrats' argument that while the economy may not be terrible, things are not so well either. The next set of jobless numbers is to be issued Sept. 3, the day after Mr. Bush accepts his party's nomination. After that, the October numbers will be the last before the Nov. 2 election.
 That means the president has just two more chances for an improved outlook.
 Analysts said Friday's news would make it hard for the Bush campaign to change the subject from the economy.
 ''The economy doesn't go away as a campaign issue,'' said Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. ''And with no sign of progress, it really puts the Republicans on the defensive.''
 This could be particularly true in states like Ohio, Michigan and Missouri, which have lost the most jobs since Mr. Bush became president. They are also among the states where polls show the election to be neck and neck.
 Even before the latest numbers, polls showed that the public has more faith in Mr. Bush as commander in chief -- and less faith in him to manage the economy -- than in Senator Kerry. To that end, Mr. Bush on Friday, in a hint of how he is approaching the issue, went from playing down the numbers to quickly turning back to Topic A. The stream of e-mail messages from his campaign to reporters focused on terror, not the economy. Similarly, the subject of his radio address for Saturday was terror, not the economy.
 The campaigns dispute the effect that the jobs numbers will have on voters. David Winston, a Republican pollster, said the numbers were disappointing, but insisted that voters would not judge the president on them. ''It's like if you have a baseball player like Barry Bonds and he goes 0 for 4 one day and you decide to trade him, as opposed to looking at the totality of his performance for the entire season,'' he said.
 Like the Bush campaign, Representative Tom Delay, the Texas Republican who is the House majority leader, lauded the dip in the unemployment rate. ''These statistics show that our economy is moving in the right direction,'' he said in a statement, ''but also that there is more work to be done.'' He has been seeking to make the Bush tax cuts permanent.
 But Tad Devine, a senior strategist for the Kerry campaign, said that voters' perceptions were solidifying and that any suggestion that they would wait until Election Day to assess Mr. Bush and the economy was ''ludicrous.''
 Mr. Devine said that voters did not want to hear Mr. Kerry denigrate Mr. Bush. Rather, he said, they want to hear how Mr. Kerry will make things better, which means the Kerry economic plan will come under new scrutiny.
 The Democratic plan to reverse what they called the anemic job growth also involves controlling health care costs and energy costs. Mr. Kerry would also refund the payroll taxes for companies that hire new employees, cut taxes for businesses that create jobs in the United States and eliminate tax breaks for American companies that move their jobs overseas. He also speaks frequently of restoring the fiscal discipline of the Clinton administration, and underscored the point by having Robert Rubin, Mr. Clinton's treasury secretary, who is well respected on Wall Street, sit next to his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, during his acceptance speech at the Democratic convention.
 ''The American people are looking for solutions,'' Mr. Devine said. ''What they want to hear is what Kerry and Edwards are going to do about jobs. That will be our focus, not the shortcomings of this administration.''
 But just in case the Kerry team dwells on what some Democrats are calling the jobless recovery, Mr. Devine added, ''Of course, it will be referenced in the normal course of political dialogue, but it will not be our focus.''
 But the bad jobs news holds perils for the Democrats as well, largely under the category of the old political advice against celebrating misery.
 Mr. Kohut said that there were ''a triumvirate'' of issues important to voters this year -- the economy, the war on terror and the war in Iraq. But the economy, he said, ''is a persistent source of discontent,'' unlike the other two, which can ebb and flow depending on daily events. He said the numbers gave the Democrats the ability to keep hammering the idea that the president's policies were taking the country in the wrong direction.
 Even so, the president made clear that he would not be giving the Democrats any sound bites that showed him admitting to a faltering economy.
 Campaigning in New Hampshire, he said that his ''well-timed tax cuts'' had produced a strong economy despite various setbacks. 
 He left it to others to discuss how the economy might be improved, but, again, without admitting a problem. Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary, released a statement finding hope in the dip in unemployment, to 5.5 percent from 5.6 percent, and saying that ''the American economy is moving in the right direction.''
 Still, the Democrats were determine to emphasize the figures as an affirmation that Mr. Bush was taking the country in the wrong direction -- and they have no plans to let up before November.
 After all, they said, if Mr. Bush continues on this track, he would be the first president since Herbert Hoover to experience a decline in jobs during his presidency, an issue they do not want lost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (52%); SCANDALS (52%); TERRORISM (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (69%) MISSOURI, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



174 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Repetition As a Tool Of Persuasion For a Stadium

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
There is a theory in salesmanship that if the virtues of a product are repeated over and over again, people eventually start to believe in them, no matter how unreal those virtues are. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who made his billions selling financial information, favors this technique when peddling major policy ideas. When Mr. Bloomberg wanted to take control of the city schools, he laid out the merits of his plan and his conviction that it enjoyed statewide support on a daily basis month after month, until he finally won such control. 
 When he wanted legislation to ban smoking in restaurants and bars, he found several different ways to say, every chance he had, that ''either you have clean air for people that are working there or you don't.'' 
 And when it came to making the case that the city needed more antiterrorism money from Washington, Mr. Bloomberg's catch phrase ''pork-barrel politics,'' and the intonation he used in saying it, became common refrains at his public appearances.
 The mayor's latest pet issue is his plan for a stadium on the far West Side of Manhattan, a building that would also be used to expand the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. 
 The mayor plugs the stadium at civic association meetings around the city at night and at news conferences during the day, and tucks it into many of his speeches. In his testimony to the state Financial Control Board last month, he said the stadium would ''generate the increased tax revenues that will help us meet these rising costs.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has long portrayed developing the far West Side as the cornerstone of his economic development program, saying that the city will lose convention business without it. But in recent weeks, he has been extolling the virtues of building a new stadium -- a controversial idea that would match taxpayer money with $800 million from the Jets -- to anyone who will listen.
 That included, on Wednesday, a room full of slightly baffled cabdrivers, whom the mayor spoke to at an awards ceremony in Midtown. After praising the role taxi drivers play in the city, Mr. Bloomberg segued into a plug for an expanded Javits center, saying how much the city needed it and that such a stadium would increase tourism, and therefore taxi business. Ah!
 Mr. Bloomberg again alluded to the stadium that day during a news conference to announce increased tourism, saying that convention business would grow with an expanded Javits center. On Thursday, when he laid out the city's final bid for the Olympics, Mr. Bloomberg was asked what would happen if the stadium plan fell through. ''You would not get the Olympics, there is just no question about that,'' he quickly replied.
 On his weekly radio program yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg assailed critics of the stadium, some of whom have suggested that there are better ways to spend city dollars, and budget analysts who have poked holes in the way the city would finance the deal, by adding to its long-term debt.
 ''It is still a very good economic deal,'' the mayor snapped. ''And the people that are screaming about the extra money, which won't be anywheres near that amount, but whatever it is, they'd be the first ones to scream if we used the city's balance sheet. These are just professional screamers.''
 Missed the sheer preponderance of these statements? Not your fault. Reporters who record his daily musings become so numbed by the repeated phrases that they often put their pens down and stare longingly into their Starbucks cups.
 The recent timing of Mr. Bloomberg's heated sales pitch is not coincidental: opponents of the plan are running an extensive advertising campaign against the idea, and the city is hoping for passage of various pieces of legislation from Albany that would accelerate its approval. 
 ''Up until a few months ago it was all theoretical,'' said Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary. ''Since then, we presented our rezoning plan for the far West Side, issued a draft environmental impact statement and signed an agreement with the state and the Jets. It has left the realm of the possible and is becoming reality.''
 Mr. Skyler added that Mr. Bloomberg would soon be heavily lobbying lawmakers in Albany to pass legislation allowing for a Javits expansion. 
 Opponents of the West Side development plan have dismissed Mr. Bloomberg's efforts as an attempt to counter their own campaign.
 ''The city's own Independent Budget Office said the stadium's financing does not add up,'' said Whit Clay, a spokesman for the New York Association for Better Choices, a group of stadium opponents. ''The city's environmental report outlines a potential environmental nightmare, the community is up in arms about the potential impact on the neighborhood, and working people across New York are outraged about a plan to spend at least $600 million in taxpayer money for a West Side stadium at the expense of schools, housing and public safety. It is no wonder the administration is scrambling.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); SMOKING (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); TOURISM (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (66%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (66%); OLYMPICS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); COUNTERTERRORISM (53%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



175 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Goal of U.S. Independence on Oil Divides Advisers

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE; David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting from St. Louis for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
The idea of a United States independent of Middle East oil is a touchstone of Senator John Kerry's campaign and a huge crowd pleaser, but has divided and exasperated many of his most experienced energy advisers.
 Some advisers say they worry that Mr. Kerry's focus on freeing the United States from reliance on oil from the Persian Gulf, the linchpin of the energy plan he released on Thursday, is unrealistic and misleading and that hammering away at it would erode Mr. Kerry's credibility with business, the news media and other countries. 
 The advisers, who include independent analysts, former staff members from Congress and the Clinton administration, and a few industry executives, contend that Mr. Kerry's regular jabs at Saudi Arabia in particular could be construed by many in the Middle East as anti-Arab, at a time when the United States may need the help of other Arab nations to improve the situation in Iraq. 
 ''It goes down well in Omaha, so they use it,'' said one expert from the oil sector who advises the campaign and who, like other advisers, spoke on condition of anonymity. ''Though there are people who say that this is irresponsible, asinine so don't use it.''
 He added: ''I'm concerned and frustrated. It's been around for months.''
 Any energy plan in a campaign reads more like notes from a brainstorming session than a detailed blueprint for economic and social change. The ideas are diverse and often vague, in an effort to have as many people as possible sign on. The chances of an actual policy being passed by Congress are slim, said energy industry experts, some of whom contended that the country had not had a comprehensive energy policy since President Jimmy Carter. 
 The Bush campaign argues that the Kerry plan will lead to the opposite of all it trumpets: job losses, not gains; greater dependence on foreign oil, not less; and a weaker economy. They also said Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, did not vote for energy legislation supported by the administration that contained similar ideas to what is in Mr. Kerry's plan. The Republican energy plan, however, included a provision to allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which both men oppose.
 Among Mr. Kerry's advisers and independent energy analysts, the reviews of the details of the plan were mixed, though most praised its focus on reducing energy demand.
 ''At least it's going in the right direction,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm. ''The only thing that matters is increasing fuel efficiency because if you can't control demand, you will never have an energy policy.''
 Increasing fuel efficiency of American cars is a critical aspect of the 10-year, $30 billion plan, though Mr. Kerry has avoided setting target dates or mileage goals. He calls for establishing an Energy Security Trust Fund financed with royalties from federal leases for oil and gas drilling that would then bankroll research into improving fuel efficiency, and developing alternative fuels for automobiles and renewable energy sources for power production. 
 What discomfits some energy experts with the campaign, those outside it and some Saudis is Mr. Kerry's belief that the United States can achieve independence from Middle East oil and the rhetoric he uses to express that vision. Because many Arab governments are repressive, the logic of the campaign goes, they are ultimately vulnerable to upheaval and potentially volatile. 
 ''We are going to reach for energy independence, we are going to create the jobs of the future because I want America's security to depend on Americas ingenuity and creativity, not the Saudi royal family,'' Mr. Kerry said at a rally in St. Louis this week. ''That's where the future is.''
 The comment drew huge applause, as it almost always does. One Kerry adviser said the reaction of television viewers to a similar comment in Mr. Kerry's convention speech showed overwhelmingly favorable reaction from Democrats and Republicans.
 The problem is that for the next 10 or 20 years, perhaps more, perhaps as long as the United States uses oil, it will be tied to the Middle East, which holds two-thirds of the world's oil reserves. Oil prices are global, determined by bidding for barrels mainly on exchange in New York and London. So even if the United States did not import any oil from the Middle East, a disruption of oil exports from there to Japan, for instance, would still result in a price shock in the United States as Japan's scramble for oil drive up prices everywhere, industry experts said. 
 Some advisers who squirm over the language maintain that the Saudis nevertheless understand that such categorical statements are campaign-year rallying cries. The Saudis point out that every president since Richard M. Nixon has called for the same thing, though one Saudi official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the call was ''more loud now.''
 ''Things will be said in an election year, and we take it for what it is,'' said Nail al-Jubeir, spokesman for the Saudi Embassy in Washington. ''These arguments tend to be what you find on a bumper sticker. People think Saudi-bashing is the answer to energy consumption, but we're not over here selling you S.U.V.'s or defeating fuel-efficiency standards.''
 Yet while the Saudi elite may understand the need for Mr. Kerry's rhetoric, others in the kingdom see a downside for both nations. ''This is not good from the point of view of attacking another country or in the way the U.S. public sees us,'' said the Saudi official who insisted on anonymity. ''And some people will use it against the U.S.''
 The Kerry campaign, however, did not see drawbacks to the message. 
 ''John Kerry's diplomacy will be so far and away different from George Bush's,'' said Sarah Bianchi, Mr. Kerry's national policy director. ''We aren't worried about anything he is saying on these issues.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry and Senator John Edwards took questions yesterday at a campaign appearance at a family farm in Smithville, Mo. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GULF STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ARCTIC (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



176 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Bad News on the Job Front

 BODY:
There is no sugarcoating yesterday's employment report. The consensus forecast was for the American economy to add more than 200,000 new jobs in July. The actual number was 32,000. June's already weak report was revised downward, to 78,000 jobs from 112,000. Even May's hopeful numbers turned out to be less so, with 27,000 fewer jobs created than originally reported. The report's immediate impact will be to neutralize, if not undercut, President Bush's campaign boasts of a strong economic recovery. 
 Mr. Bush runs the risk of being the first president since Herbert Hoover to preside over a net decline in the number of jobs. This may not be all his fault; he inherited a bursting bubble, after all, and there are limits to a president's ability to counter economic cycles. But Mr. Bush is always just as eager to have the buck stop at his desk to take credit for good economic news as he is to deny or spin bad news. Yesterday was no exception. 
 Addressing a conference of minority journalists in Washington, President Bush was unwilling to acknowledge the implications of the jobs report. ''Economic growth is strong and it's getting stronger,'' he said. Meanwhile, the White House economic team was peddling its tired line that the administration's tax cuts, which were costly without being effective as a stimulus for hiring, had helped bring about an 11th consecutive month of job growth. 
 Left unsaid was that it was a sputtering, tepid month, just at the time when the recovery should be gathering steam. The disappointing numbers come on top of -- and help explain -- other recent signs of a slowdown, including an abrupt drop in economic growth, to a 3 percent annual rate in the second quarter from 4.5 percent in this year's first quarter. Consumer spending, the mainstay of the economy, fell 0.7 percent in June, its steepest drop since September 2001. Financial markets reacted bearishly to the latest news, with stock market indexes hitting new lows for the year yesterday, and the dollar weakening against other currencies. 
 Even worse for the president, three years of tax cuts and war have left him with virtually no policy tools to counteract economic weakness in the near term. A direct fiscal stimulus is precluded by the staggering $445 billion deficit expected for the year. The White House tried to whitewash the release of that latest estimate last week by noting that the shortfall was lower than its initial (conveniently large) projection, instead of lamenting that it was higher than last year's deficit. 
 The Federal Reserve Board is also unable to come to the rescue because it is rightly concerned about the danger of keeping short-term interest rates below the rate of inflation. Next week, Alan Greenspan and his colleagues are expected to continue on their course of gradually inching up rates, which have been at emergency-level lows. This may turn into a sequel of the 1992 tensions between the Fed chairman and a Bush White House that wants looser monetary policy on the eve of an election. 
 Most economic forecasts have predicted a healthy economy in the second half of the year, and consumer surveys have been bullish, even as people have trimmed their spending. The trouble is, companies will have to start adding at least 200,000 new jobs a month to justify this optimism, especially now that the government's ability to apply a fiscal or monetary stimulus is so constrained. Those stubbornly high fuel prices show how external shocks can slam the brakes on the pace of this recovery.
 Voters deserve to have both presidential candidates address and debate solutions to some of the structural problems that are thwarting a stronger economic recovery, like our nation's dependence on foreign oil and the spiraling cost of health care. But like the rosy estimate of hundreds of thousands of new jobs for July, such a meaningful debate may be too much to count on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INFLATION (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); STOCK INDEXES (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



177 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Job Growth Slowed in July; Jobless Rate Fell to 5.5%
Employers added 32,000 jobs in July, a fraction of what forecasters had expected and far below the robust gains in employment earlier this year. In a further sign that the economy has weakened, the Labor Department also announced that job growth in May and June was less than initially estimated.
 The unemployment rate, however, fell slightly last month, to 5.5 percent from 5.6 percent in June. The unemployment rate is based on a smaller survey than the job growth numbers, which are widely considered the more reliable gauge of employment. [Page A1.]

All week President Bush traveled the country cheerfully telling audiences that ''we've turned the corner'' on the economy. But, in the face of the government's paltry new numbers on job growth, the president's new slogan suddenly sounded premature at best. Instead, the new numbers, leave little doubt that the economy could still be a potent issue for John Kerry and the Democrats. [A1.]

Adelphia to Accept Bids Next Month
Adelphia Communications, which has operated under bankruptcy protection for the last two years, plans to start accepting bids to buy the company after Labor Day. [C2.]

Yet Another Twist in Yukos Case
A Moscow court ruled that the government's plan to seize the main production subsidiary of Yukos Oil was illegal. The Yukos case has rocked world energy markets and contributed to a historic run-up in oil prices. [C4.]

HSBC Buying Stake in Another Bank
HSBC Holdings, Europe's largest bank by market value, is buying a 19.9 percent stake in the Bank of Communications, China's fifth largest lender, for $1.75 billion. It is HSBC's third acquisition in China. [C4.]

Job Cuts Expected at Gruner & Jahr
Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing, the publisher of magazines, including Fast Company, Fitness and Family Circle, will cut annual costs by $25 million and could reduce its 700 employee staff by as much as 15 percent, said J. Russell Denson, left, the company's recently hired chief executive. The job cuts will be the most obvious of the belt-tightening. The company also plans to reduce the number of copies of magazines it puts on newsstands. The amount spent on media kits, free magazines sent to advertisers and the news media, and the use of messengers and car services will also be reduced significantly. [C14.]

Earnings Fall at Berkshire Hathaway
Berkshire Hathaway, the investment company controlled by Warren E. Buffett, said that second-quarter profits fell 42 percent. [C14.]

Parmalat Files Lawsuit Against UBS
Parmalat, the insolvent food and dairy company, has filed a lawsuit against UBS for 290 million euros ($350 million), the second move in a week by Parmalat against the banks that helped it finance more than a decade of losses and financial fraud. [C4.]

F.D.A. Talks to Boston Scientific
Officials of the Food and Drug Administration said that Boston Scientific had taken ''adequate'' steps to assure the safety of its Taxus drug-coated stent. [C4.]

Profits Soar at AXA
Strong performances by the property and casualty arm and the international division of AXA helped profits increase almost sevenfold in the first half of the year. [C4.]

This Bud's for France
Anheuser-Busch can sell beer labeled Bud in France, winning the latest round against a Czech competitor, Budejovicky Budvar, in a legal battle over the Budweiser name. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,815.33 down 147.70Nasdaq composite -- 1,776.89 down 44.7410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.22% down 0.17The euro -- $1.2277 up 0.0220The dollar -- 110.36 yen down 1.35Graph tracks the unemployment rate since 2003 (July: 5.5%).(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LITIGATION (87%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); PUBLISHING (67%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); US LABOR DAY (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%); NEWSSTANDS (62%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (83%); GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (81%); PARMALAT SPA (80%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (68%); TIME WARNER INC (55%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (53%); BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS CO LTD (53%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (80%); HSBA (LSE) (68%); HSB (PAR) (68%); HBC (NYSE) (68%); 0005 (HKSE) (68%); TWX (NYSE) (55%); 3328 (HKSE) (53%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (80%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (80%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2004



178 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; ASSETS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: A Fading Co-op Sees the Time to Retire

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
FOR more than 80 years, the Beekman Hill Cooperative Association flourished behind four brownstone facades on East 50th Street near First Avenue. Its 34 small apartments provided a refuge, mostly for single men and women who often toiled in charities, foundations and relief agencies.
 But now, the building -- a five-story structure with no elevator -- is in need of extensive repairs, and the residents, including Austra Root, who taught typing and clerical skills to women in Uganda in the 1950's for the Y.W.C.A., and who just turned 83, are preparing to pack up and leave.
 Rather than struggling to raise money for repairs, the co-op, which for its entire existence required owners to sell their apartments for little more than they paid, decided to join the Manhattan real estate frenzy, in one of the most expensive neighborhoods in town. It is about to complete the sale of the site to a real estate developer for more than $11 million, and divide the proceeds among its current shareholders. 
 ''It took two to three years of talking for everyone to agree,'' said Ms. Root, a co-op board member who is planning to move to a retirement community in New Jersey.
 While it sometimes seems as if the story of residential real estate in Manhattan is an inexorable shift from private ownership to co-op living, the fate of the Beekman Hill Cooperative is not unusual.
 Jeffrey M. Schwartz, a real estate lawyer who specializes in co-ops and condos, said he worked on two other recent transactions in which co-ops decided to dissolve and sell out. In those other cases, the co-ops were in trouble too, with many unsold units, and share owners agreed to sell to a single investor.
 At the Beekman, the co-op's lawyer, Eliot Zuckerman, devised a complex plan in which the co-op would be converted into a 34-unit condominium, and then each unit would be sold to the American Development Group, an apartment developer.
 Co-op members will receive about $320,000 each.
 Perry Finkelman, the president of American Development, said he would add two stories and an elevator to the building, and convert it to 24 larger condominium apartments that he hoped to sell for up to $1,200 a square foot, or $3 million for a 2,500-square-foot two-bedroom apartment.
 The Beekman Hill Cooperative Association has its roots in the housing shortage at the end of World War I. A group of single women working for the Y.W.C.A. and some of their friends were unable to find housing, according to a history of the association prepared in the 1960's. 
 They each contributed $2,000, and in 1920, with loans and interest-rate subsidies from wealthy philanthropists, including John D. Rockefeller Jr., they bought the four brownstones, Nos. 343 through 349, and evicted the families living there. The buildings were reconstructed and combined to create 34 apartments.
 Under the co-op's rules, new buyers had to meet income guidelines. Elizabeth A. Gurl, the current board president, who is on the staff of the Guggenheim Foundation, said that at one point the co-op also adopted rules limiting the number of applicants from any one foundation, so a single foundation would not dominate the building. Owners were required to contribute their time to the co-op and it operated without an outside management company. Common charges were kept under $650 a month.
 But over time, as the building became more run-down and many residents grew older, the communal spirit faded a bit, according to John Staples, the chairman of the building committee and a past president. 
 ''Each year it got harder and harder to get people to serve on the board,'' he said.
 He said the building needed about $1 million in renovation work, including new plumbing and a new heating system, and that in the end, it would still be a five-story walk-up. 
 Jordi Reyes-Montblanc, chairman of the H.D.F.C. Council, a group for limited-equity co-ops, said co-ops like the Beekman are the last affordable housing in much of Manhattan. ''It is always sad when a co-op goes that way,'' he said. ''Once it goes the luxury route, it is lost forever.''
 Some owners, like Carol Tomberg, who is 85 and wrote advertisements for Estee Lauder, feel the loss, too. She initially opposed the sale, but eventually went along with the inevitable. Yet as she prepared to move, she still seemed bitter.
 ''There were some of us who didn't want to sell,'' she said. ''However, the young ones are interested mostly in money, and that is how it went.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Doug Ross) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CHARITIES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); WOMEN (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); LAWYERS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Housing; Cooperatives; Condominiums; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Beekman Hill Cooperative Assn; American Development Group

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%) Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); UGANDA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



179 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Famous and Forgotten: A Baseball Legend From Bridgeport

BYLINE: By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE rivalry between the Red Sox and the Yankees has riven Connecticut for years. 
 Yet a group of baseball history buffs in Bridgeport wants to focus all that interstate attention inward.
 They're trying to save a rickety Victorian house in the city's east end that was once home to Connecticut's most famous and forgotten ballplayer, James Henry O'Rourke, a Hall of Famer whose highlights include going into the record books as getting the first hit in the National League (in 1876). 
 In the process, these preservationists hope that Connecticut's baseball history -- every mill town from Norwich to Torrington to Middletown to Hartford once had a pro team, with names like the Bonbons, Demons, Mansfields and Wooden Nutmegs -- might finally gain some recognition.
 ''Our main focus right now is to preserve James O'Rourke's memory,'' said Michael Bielawa of Woodbury, vice president and secretary of The First Hit, the group working to restore Mr. O'Rourke's former residence and move it across town in what could be a $1 million project. 
 ''But eventually, I would like to teach people about this rich, rich baseball history under our feet,'' he said.
 That particular history is closely tied to the ethnic and economic development of the region, for worse and for better. 
 At the time, baseball was a sport that prided itself on its accessibility and camaraderie, especially for poor immigrants, though there was frequent tension, according to Mr. Bielawa, who has written two books about baseball in Bridgeport.
 Mr. O'Rourke, a Roman Catholic and son of Irish immigrants, was once pressured to drop the ''O'' from his name to fit in on the heavily Protestant Boston Red Stockings said Mr. Bielawa. He refused. 
 Mr. O'Rourke managed to graduate from Yale Law School, a major feat even in his day, even though an undergraduate degree wasn't required. 
 He practiced law in downtown Bridgeport, managing trusts and estates when not catching for the local team. Mr. O'Rourke's intellectual prowess and frequent loquaciousness earned him the nickname Orator Jim, which appears on his Hall of Fame plaque. 
 But he wasn't just some diamond dilettante. 
 In addition to snagging the first hit, Mr. O'Rourke holds the still-unbroken record for oldest player in a National League game, when he played catcher for the New York Giants on Sept. 22, 1904, at the age of 52. During the course of his career he played mostly outfield, but he also pitched, played catcher and every infield position.
 Mr. O'Rourke is also the first player to have suited up alongside his brother (John, in the 1880 season, with the Boston Red Caps). In 1884, he won the National League batting title with the Buffalo Bisons with a .350 batting average. His .314 career average, according to National Baseball Hall of Fame records, shows he was consistently a slugger. 
 Despite his impressive record, Mr. O'Rourke so far has just one memorial in his honor, a small plaque in Newfield Park, which at the turn of the century was the Newfield Baseball Grounds, home to the Bridgeport Orators, which Orator Jim played for, managed and owned simultaneously.
 ''He was able to overcome the incredible prejudice he faced early on, and it later led him to sign the first African-American player in Bridgeport,'' Mr. Bielawa said. ''He learned to treat people as equals and look at what they could do as opposed to where they were from.''
 Mr. O'Rourke's former residence, around the corner at 274 Pembroke Street, shows no sign of a sports legend. The tan and brown three-story house rises at from a weedy lot choked with concrete rubble next to a thunderous highway overpass. Inside, the 4,000-square-foot building is a mess of smashed appliances, gouged walls, and splintered glass. No O'Rourke relative has lived there since 1920, a year after Mr. O'Rourke died, when Mr. O'Rourke's daughter sold the house for $5,300, according to a deed filed in City Hall. 
 Still, Mark R. Halstead, an architect who lives in Fairfield who is voluntarily consulting on the project, believes the house, where Mr. O'Rourke, his wife, Annie and his seven children lives, can be rehabilitated to its turn-of-the-century style. Mr. Halstead aims to move it about three miles away on a truck (probably in three pieces) to get it under the interstate to a city-owned baseball field at the Florence E. Blackham School in Bridgeport's north end.
 ''The wood frame presents its own challenges for how you take it apart and put it back together,'' Mr. Halstead said. ''But much bigger buildings than this have been moved in the past.''
 The effort to save Mr. O'Rourke's house began one night in 1982, when Mr. Bielawa was reading a biography of Ty Cobb in the Bridgeport Public Library, where he works as a community relations librarian. 
 In red pencil, somebody had underlined the name ''James O'Rourke'' in the book and scrawled a note in the margin that pointed out how he was a Hall of Famer, Mr. Bielawa said.
 ''I thought I knew everything about baseball, but how could I not know this?'' Mr. Bielawa thought at the time.
 Later, scouring the library's collection of old city phone books and fire insurance maps, Mr. Bielawa tracked down the O'Rourke home. 
 The building, owned privately and then by the state, sat in relative obscurity until the late 1990's. That's when the city, under Mayor Joseph Ganim, used eminent domain to seize the whole neighborhood bordering on Yellow Mill Pond in order to build Bridgeport Landing, a 50-acre complex of apartments, shops, a hotel and marina.
 Fearing the house would be destroyed, Mr. Bielawa urged State Senator Bill Finch to step in and save it. He did, but the threat hasn't gone away.
 This week, Mayor John Fabrizi met with RCI Marine, the Miami Beach-based developer who proposed Bridgeport Landing the first time around. 
 With a green light from the city, RCI Marine is planning to break ground on the $950 million project by January 2005, and the O'Rourke house won't fit in the new-look neighborhood. ''This is more of a museum quality component and doesn't belong in the middle of a commercial site,'' said Bob Christoph, RCI Marine's president.
 Faced with something of a deadline, First Hit is rushing to raise money, though they won't know the exact amount needed until consultants submit estimates for the project by the end of the summer. 
 So far, First Hit has held one fundraising party, in April, that drew 60 people and it has raised $2,000, though most of that has paid legal fees. 
 The group is hopeful it can persuade local businesses to kick in the difference. One prospect is the Bridgeport Bluefish minor-league club, which brought pro baseball back to Bridgeport in 1998 after a 48-year absence. 
 The city, however, has balked on the idea of chipping in money.
 ''That house need to be moved sooner or later, because it is a hazard as well,'' Mr. Fabrizi said. ''But the burden for this squarely falls on the shoulder of the foundation.''
 The mayor recently gave the go-ahead for First Hit to move the house to the baseball fields. There, the house would replace a batting cage and gravel parking lot facing the well-tended houses along Bretton Street. 
 By 2007, First Hit hopes to have the O'Rourke's house's top two floors converted into an apartment. The ground floor, meanwhile, would become a museum dedicated to baseball in Bridgeport, to honor an era in the city when factory workers churned out ammunition, sewing machines and corsets, and when the whistle blew, they left the factory and hopped a trolley to watch a pro baseball game.
 In the meantime, at least one team reminds Bridgeport of its baseball history.
 ''If the Orator were alive today, he would look around and say, 'Let's go Bluefish,''' Mr. Bielawa said. ''But he would say it with more syllables.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Halstead, left, with Michael Bielawa and Bernie Crowley, all active in preserving the Bridgeport home of James H. O'Rourke.
An effort is under way to save the rickety Victorian house in Bridgeport's east end that James H. O'Rourke lived in with his family in the 1800's. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 (Photographs from the National Baseball Hall of Fame Library, Cooperstown, N.Y.)Chart: ''The First Hit And More''James H. O'Rourke played in the major leagues from 1876 to 1893, and again in 1904 when he was 52 years old. His career statistics:GAMES -- 1,750AT BAT -- 7,365RUNS -- 1,425HITS -- 2,314CAREER AVERAGE -- .314DOUBLES -- 385TRIPLES -- 139HOME RUNS -- 50WALKS -- 481STRIKE OUTS -- 348R.B.I. statistics are not available.BORN: Aug. 24, 1852 in Bridgeport, Conn.DIED: Jan. 8, 1919 in Bridgeport, Conn.BATTED / THREW: RightTEAMS: Middletown Mansfields, Boston Red Stockings, Providence Grays, Buffalo Bisons, New York Giants, Washington SenatorsElected to the Hall of Fame in 1945(Source by Baseball Hall of Fame)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); HISTORY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); RELIGION (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



180 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The World; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Does Europe Need To Get a Life?

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
EUROPE, the kinder, gentler continent, where the death penalty has been abolished and arrogant unilateralism, assembly-line hamburgers, Bible thumping and crass patriotism are repudiated. 
 These days there is a powerful trend in Europe, with plenty of support in the United States, to believe in the advantages of the European model over the American one.
 A few weeks ago, for example, Egon Bahr, a senior statesman in the German Social Democratic Party, described in an interview why he feels that the European tradition of culture, sciences and welfare, as he called it, is superior to that of the United States. ''Just a small example,'' he said. ''We abolished the death penalty in Europe, America didn't. We are trying to reform the welfare system, something that doesn't even exist in America.'' 
 Where Mr. Bahr learned America has no welfare system is a mystery. In other respects, he has a point. Even America's defenders must admit to the persistence of poverty amid plenty, and, by contrast, the abolition of desperate poverty in Europe. 
 But is Europe really better, as many Americans and Europeans feel? In a recent essay published in The Hudson Review, Bruce Bawer, an American writer who moved to Europe in 1998, says that for a time he thought about writing a book lamenting American anti-intellectualism, indifference to foreign languages and academic achievement, and susceptibility to trash TV.
 He didn't write that book, he says, because he discovered that Europe wasn't so comparatively fantastic after all. But now somebody else has. In ''The European Dream,'' the American writer Jeremy Rifkin proclaims this thesis: ''While the American Spirit is tiring and languishing in the past, a new European Dream is being born.'' It is a dream that emphasizes ''community relationships over individual autonomy, cultural diversity over assimilation, quality of life over the accumulation of wealth and global cooperation over the unilateral exercise of power.'' 
 Yet his proclamations are at best arguable. Mr. Rifkin writes that he finds more cultural diversity in Europe than in the United States. But it is in Europe, not America, that anti-immigrant sentiment has fed the rise of far-right parties; and, recently, the French government banned girls from wearing Muslim head scarves in school. In ''Free World,'' a new book soon to be published in the United States that offers a more balanced view of the debate, the British writer Timothy Garton Ash reports that the United States today spends more on Medicaid programs caring for 40 million poor people than Britain's national health service spends on its entire population of 60 million. Yet Mr. Bahr can proclaim that the United States has no welfare at all.
 Or, here's a claim from a prominent British journalist, Will Hutton, made in a column in The Observer some months ago: ''The capture of universities by the rich and the lack of education for the poor have meant that social mobility in the United States has collapsed.'' Yet 60 percent of students at America's elite institutions of higher learning (many of which practice need-blind admissions) receive some financial aid.
 ''Is Europe better than America?'' asks Mr. Ash, who directs the European Studies Center at Oxford. He offers two possible answers: (a) Europe and America are two ''strongly contrasting civilizations,'' and each thinks it is better; or (b) America and most of Europe belong to a wider family of liberal democracies, and one is better in some ways, the other in other ways.
 ''Statement b is less interesting, less galvanizing,'' Mr. Ash concludes, ''but it has the boring old merit of being true.''
 So why are some Europeans so eager to believe in what seems a cartoonishly dark image of the United States? One reason, no doubt, is the influence of Michael Moore, whose books and films are taken in much of Europe as irrefutable confirmation of the worst images of America.
 Then there is the Bush administration and the Iraq war. ''In my memory there's never been so much disdain for an American president than there is today,'' Detlef Junker, the head of the Center for American Studies at Heidelberg University, said, ''and in the wake of this disdain, all the anti-American stereotypes come out again.''
 There is, in other words, a fear in Europe of a country that has no global counterweight, says Josef Joffe, editor of the weekly German newspaper Die Zeit. But most of that fear, perhaps 70 percent of it, Mr. Joffe estimates, is irrational. 
 ''The irrational part is as old as anti-Americanism,'' he says. ''America is the steamroller of modernity, and its forcing the Europeans to adapt.'' Europe's inability to recover from recession contrasts with a relatively quick rebound in the United States, Mr. Joffe says, ''so there's envy of America and resentment of it, too.''
 In his essay, Mr. Bawer recalls a travel article he wrote on Norway for The New York Times, which was deemed important enough to be mentioned on the front page of the country's most serious newspaper. The paper also reported a claim from an angry innkeeper that Mr. Bawer insisted on being served McDonald's for dinner, which Mr. Bawer denies. The experience made him wonder about Europe, so awed by America as to be flattered by its slightest attentions, yet also reflexively belligerent toward it.
 What may be most deeply at issue is Europe's loss of confidence in its ability to forge a separate way, in the face of the American juggernaut. After all, if the United States, more boldly capitalist, less oriented toward social welfare, is portrayed as a shining light, what room is left for the European left? And then there is the fear among educated people that the brash American materialism will sweep European cultivation into a vast sea of sameness. It's a realistic fear, and it would be a loss to both Europe and America if it did happen.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); RELIGION (78%); MEDICAID (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); IMMIGRATION (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



181 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; BETA MALE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Between the Tool-Belt Set and the Jet Set

BYLINE: By RICK MARIN

 BODY:
NOTHING like a presidential campaign to get a man thinking about the important things in life, like himself. 
 Not just what kind of man am I going to vote for, but what kind of man am I? Which of the Democrats' ''two Americas'' do I belong to? The America that ''does the work,'' as John Edwards says, or ''reaps the rewards,'' that ''pays the taxes'' or ''gets the tax breaks''? The one ''struggling to get by'' or that ''can buy anything it wants''? 
 Or neither, but somewhere in between -- an unsettling feeling of unbelonging I think of as Male Status Anxiety. 
 Mine set in acutely five years ago, when my wife and I bought a house in the Hamptons because we couldn't afford to rent. We couldn't afford to buy now, either, but we sneaked in before they closed the curtain between Business and Economy. I hasten to add that we live on a street not of gabled McManses but 1950's ranch houses and modest split-levels, populated entirely by locals. They are plumbing contractors, masons, high school teachers -- people more likely to attend pancake breakfasts at the volunteer fire department than charity barbecues at Peter Jennings's house. 
 We've never been to Peter Jennings's either, but to our neighbors we must look like the Other America, with our S.U.V. in the driveway, sprinklered lawn and new gunite pool.
 ''I'm not rich like you people!'' the guy who lives behind us shouted once in a dust-up over a property line. 
 If only. To him, we may seem loaded, just as he must to the Hispanic laborers who work for $15 a day and live in parts of the Hamptons you never even see. 
 But just because we've dropped $200 at dinner at the American Hotel in Sag Harbor with our hedge-fund-manager/real-estate-mogul friends doesn't mean we can afford it. When that bill comes, our table mates casually whip out their American Express black cards and ready rolls of cash, while I break a flop-sweat wondering if my 24.9 percent A.P.R. plastic has hit its monthly melting point. Compared with a guy with not one but two private jets, I'm poor. 
 Class is a masculinity-defining issue, and I'm getting hit from both sides. 
 My tool-belted neighbors are man enough to aerate their own lawns, shingle their own houses, self-install their pools. Effete city boy that I am, I have to hire people to do those things. For my mole infestation, I'm paying a pest-control guy $175 to set traps, then remove the bloodied carcasses. The average local Joe would just take a shovel back there at the crack of dawn and guillotine the vermin himself. Next to the Bob (and Babs) Vilas all around me, I'm like those overly evolved ''Star Trek'' aliens who communicated through throbbing veins in their giant foreheads. 
 My head throbs when I write checks. But the small army of service people I'm forced to employ don't know that -- and I feel their disdain for my unmanliness.
 A carpenter came the other day to install adjustable closets. As soon as he'd finish one, I'd put the clothes back in. He said, ''Your wife's going to be real happy the way you're organizing everything so neat.'' I explained, with a lot of macho swagger, that I was the neat one. I wouldn't trust my wife with the closets. 
 ''What?'' the carpenter shouted, as he did every time I said anything. 
 Figuring I must be speaking too softly, or effetely, I repeated, with extra-loud manliness, ''I'm the neat one!'' 
 Then I realized he was wearing earplugs. 
 I think of my life out here as a cross between ''A Year in Provence'' and ''Straw Dogs'' -- the 1971 Sam Peckinpah movie I saw again not long ago. Dustin Hoffman is a mathematician who moves with his sexy English wife (Susan George) to her village in rural England, where they're mocked and bullied by a gang of townies working on their house. Mr. Hoffman's character takes the abuse -- then his mild-mannered math nerd fights back, asserting his manhood in a fury of Peckinpah ultraviolence.
 But how do I assert mine, when neither tool belt nor money belt seems to fit? I'm Banana Republic belt. My own Straw Dog impulses only snap in crazed Starbucks outbursts. ''What's taking my Frappuccino so long?!'' Demanding my money back and storming out. I need help.
 Seeking solace and wisdom, I consulted Alain de Botton's new book, ''Status Anxiety,'' and found this quotation from the 18th-century philosopher David Hume: ''It is not a great disproportion between ourselves and others which produces envy, but on the contrary, proximity.'' In fact, psychological research has documented the same phenomenon. People are more or less happy when their income is equivalent to their neighbors' -- whether they earn $350,000 a year or $35 an hour. 
 But in the Hamptons everyone is painfully proximate. A friend of mine pulled his Range Rover out of a gas station recently and two teenagers shouted after him, ''We hate you!''
 ''Why?'' 
 ''Because you're not from here!'' 
 ''You don't know that!'' he said.
 Yes they did. 
 My next-door neighbor, a jack-of-many-trades who was born in the house his own family now lives in, once asked me plaintively, ''There are a million small towns -- why do they have to come here?'' 
 It took me a while to realize that ''they'' meant me. I'm not one of them, I wanted to explain. But I wasn't one of him, either. 
 There aren't two Americas, but three: rich, poor and all us monkeys in the middle, comparing and calibrating ourselves against the guy above and the guy below, in the tax bracket of It's-Never-Quite-Enough. 
 Mr. de Botton recommends art as a cure for status anxiety. Maybe the way to campaign to this underrepresented constituency is to go with some poetry, something upbeat, optimistic, like Robert Browning: ''A man's reach should exceed his grasp/Or what's a mortgage for?'' 
 I feel better already.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by P. C. Vey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TRENDS (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (51%); HIGH SCHOOLS (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Social Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (58%) Rick Marin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) Hamptons (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



182 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

Opera in Clinton
 Tchaikovsky's opera ''Eugene Onegin'' will be presented in a fully staged production by the Opera Theater of Connecticut on Thursday through Sunday at Andrews Memorial Theater in Clinton. Tickets are $35, or $30 for people under 18 or over 65.
 The work will be sung in English, accompanied by an orchestra and enhanced by English supertitles put together when the performance was scheduled to be sung in the original Russian.
 The complex love story, based on the epic poem of the same name by Pushkin, is set in opulent 19th-century Czarist Russia. It is full of passion, infatuation, rejection and tragedy. 
 Robert Gardner has the title role, and the rest of the cast includes the Connecticut singers Mary Petro as Tatyana, Victor Khodadad as Lensky, and Valerie Nicolosi as Olga.
 The theater, at 54 East Main Street, is on the shores of the Indian River with a lawn open for picnicking before the 7:30 p.m. performances. Suppers must be ordered two days in advance at $14. Tickets for discussions with Mr. Mann an hour and a half before performances are $5. Information: (860)669-8999. 

Meteor Showers Ahead
 The annual Perseids meteor shower, traveling from the north-northwest, may be viewed with the naked eye on Wednesday and Thursday nights in the rooftop observatory at the Stamford Museum & Nature Center. Viewings are from 9 p.m. to dawn both nights, with the best viewing expected after midnight, when up to 60 meteors an hour are predicted.
 The August meteors, named for the constellation Perseus, was last seen 130 years ago and the next one will be 130 years hence. 
 Spectators at the center will be briefed on celestial phenomena by the center's astronomer, Charles Scovill, and they are invited to see the galaxies through the observatory's 22-inch research telescope. 
 Admission to the observatory, just past the nature center's entrance at 39 Scofieldtown Road, is $3. Wear warm clothing or bring a blanket. Information: (203)322-1646. 

The Art of Silhouettes
 Sally Newcomb's talent is cutting silhouettes from live models. She has been a familiar figure at Connecticut's historic places and art festivals for years and she is now artist-in-residence at the Captain Nathaniel B. Palmer House of the Stonington Historical Society. 
 She will give a lecture on the history of silhouettes today at 7 p.m. Using 18th-and 19th-century techniques, she will cut silhouettes by appointment during the day for a fee. An exhibition of silhouettes on loan from Stonington residents will be on display through Aug. 15 at the Palmer House at 40 Palmer Street. Information and reservations: (860)535-8445. 

Yale and German Literature
 A brochure prepared in conjunction with an exhibition at the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale, entitled ''To These Shores: The Yale Collection of German Literature 1913-2004'' is a mini-spy novel telling the complex history of how Yale acquired thousands upon thousands of illustrated books, novels, letters and manuscripts by Goethe, Heine, Thomas Mann, Rilke, Kafka, Werfel, Zweig, Wedekind, Feuchtwanger and many others. Interactions among librarians, booksellers, scholars and private collectors that took place during the tumultuous years of World War II and the Nazi regime provided a wealth of material.
 The first 6,000 items that formed the William A. Speck collection of Goetheana, acquired in 1913, came to Yale with Mr. Speck himself as the first curator of the German collection. After World War I, during the peak of German inflation, Speck bought a large Faust collection at half-price and traded autographs of President William Howard Taft for autographs and memorabilia of Goethe.
 Next came the Kohut Rutra Heine Collection, a gift of George Alexander Kohut, a Hungarian emigre whose father, Alexander Kohut, founded the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York. Then in the late 1930's Thomas Mann was prevailed upon by Joseph Warner Angell, a Yale graduate student, to donate 38 autographed manuscripts, establishing a Mann collection. 
 Other elements of Yale's German collections includes archives of Kurt Weill and Lotte Lenya, the papers of Max Ernst relating to Dada and Surrealism, and the Gutenberg Bible, acquired after World War I from the Benedictine Abbey of Melk in Austria.
 Library hours are Monday through Thursday, 8:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Friday, 8:30 to 5; and Saturday, 10 to 5. More information: (203)432-2964. 
 ELEANOR CHARLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HISTORY (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); LITERATURE (70%); POETRY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



183 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2338 words

HEADLINE: Camp Hangout

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
Kevin Cahillane and Jane Gordon contributed reporting for the article.

 BODY:
THERE was a time, at least in the misty land of memory, when there was a clear line of demarcation between the last day of school and the first day of summer vacation. Walking out of the schoolhouse door, clutching the raggedy contents of your desk, a child felt that moment of liberation from the pressures, both social and academic, of school as keenly as a convict released from jail.
 Those were the days, as myth would have it, when mothers were more available, streets were safe enough for children to roam and the suburbs were still new, planted with modest houses and spindly trees. Those were the days when children did not have to do, they could just be.
 Summer was the time for sleeping late, digging in the dirt, roaming the neighborhood on a bike, playing kick the can and war. 
 But for a generation of children, the line between the end of school and the beginning of summer became steadily fuzzier. Summer turned into a continuation of the rest of the year, a season of expensive sleep-away camps, sweaty sports camps, academic enrichment and globe-trotting adventures. Only the uncool, the disorganized and families with no other options kept their children at home, dependent on their own wit and imagination to keep busy.
 Yet across the suburbs, some people say that a counter-trend is developing, a movement to go back to the unabashedly ordinary, low-pressure summers that parents remember from their own childhoods, summers of catching fireflies, getting to know cousins and visiting grandparents. 
 In Connecticut, a mother who gave up her job as a litigator to spend more time with her children has found that her children were burned out by the effort to make summer stimulating instead of relaxing, and would rather just stay home.
 On Long Island, a Hempstead supervisor has seen a rise in the number of children enrolling in free or low-cost summer recreation programs.
 In New Jersey, two brothers help fill their days with a winter sport, hockey, and in Westchester, a group of boys meet at the schoolyard most afternoons to play a lazy game of stickball.
 To some degree, parents say, they are rebelling against the high cost of summer camps.
 But a more subtle cultural change may be in the air, a conviction that the competition to turn summer into an extension of the school year, an endless race to get into Harvard, has gotten out of hand. People are tired, they say, of summertime one-upmanship. They are exhausted by the effort to find a summer activity that will look good on a college application. And they are no longer convinced that getting into the right summer camp is important to their children's future.
 ''We did do a lot of the sort of busy suburban summer life at one time,'' said Judy Rintoul, the former litigator who is raising two children, Max, 10, and Emily, 12, in Portland, Conn.
 ''The stress of running around and the competitiveness of being in those programs was just not what we were looking for, and we found that being more selective about what we took them to in the summer ended up being more fun and more relaxing,'' she said. ''We just felt that it built our family in new ways. It gives us more time to do things with each other, to learn about each other, to learn about ourselves.''
 The Rintoul family's retreat into summer domesticity began with Ms. Rintoul's retirement four years ago from her job as an employment litigator. During a trial, she found that she could be working 15 hours a day and unable to control when she could be home. She would be sending her children to bed at 7 p.m., just so she could get them out of the way while she went back to work.
 Summer camps became a form of day care. ''I had to find something for them to do,'' she said, while she and her husband, David, also a lawyer, were at work. Her children went to art camps, sports camps and writing camps, and Ms. Rintoul had to start enrolling them in these camps as early as January.
 ''It was exhausting,'' she said. ''They had back-to-back camps, some sleep-away, some day camps, some half-day camps. All the weeks and hours and drop-off and pickup times had to match.''
 Three years ago, she started home schooling her children. This year, it seemed a natural extension of home schooling to also keep them home for the summer. Her children, Ms. Rintoul said, have never been bored.
 They putter around the garden, read, play on the computer and have friends over. They go to the theater. The only structured activity is music lessons.
 ''This is the kind of time when kids think about who they are and how things work, the time when they generate questions about the world,'' she said.
 Ms. Rintoul concedes that as her children reach high-school age, they might feel more pressured to find summer activities that they can show off on a college application. But she is not sure she'll give in.
 ''It's not enough to be smart, it's not enough to be wealthy, it's not enough to be good-looking anymore,'' she said. ''All these people putting their children's noses to the grindstone are still not guaranteed that at the end of that they're going to have a successful, well adjusted, happy adult. Maybe my children won't be the most competitive people, but they'll have things to offer, and they'll be unique things.''
 Emeline and Dave Thornell keep their two children, Sydney, 9, and Aidan, 5, engaged over the summer by simply opening the front door. Their middle-class street in upper-crust Summit, N.J., had 43 kids the last time someone thought to count.
 While Mr. Thornell, a chemist with Northeast Laboratories in Manhattan, and Mrs. Thornell, a cardiac nurse at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J., both work full-time, they have stay-at-home children thanks to flex work schedules and a reliable babysitter. Mrs. Thornell, for one, is grateful for the comfort of neighbors.
 ''It's like it was when we were growing up,'' she said. ''Everyone on the block just goes outside and plays and people talk to each other on the stoops. These days, everything has to be structured and there's this camp and that camp. I mean, did you ever go on a play date?''
 While this village approach to child raising is nothing new, Mr. Thornell has added homework to his children's summer itineraries. Every afternoon, Sydney and Aidan retire to their rooms to read books, write letters, draw pictures and otherwise engage their creative and intellectual sensibilities during the otherwise dormant dogged days of July.
 While Sydney is passionate about dance and Aidan has more natural athletic talent than you can shake a lacrosse stick at, the highlight of the summer has been playing with the two new kids next door.
 ''I wait at the window for them to come outside,'' Sydney says. When they do, the four kids go from house to house, running through sprinklers, watching Tom and Jerry videos and getting into their share of scrapes and bruises.
 In Ryan Kahn's case, staying home was a choice. At 14, he was old enough to make his own decision. He had tried sleep-away camp in the past and liked it well enough, but decided that this year he wanted a break.
 Ryan goes to a daily tennis camp in his hometown of New Rochelle. When camp is over at 4 p.m., he spends most afternoons playing stickball with his friends at George M. Davis Jr. Elementary School. They don't even have to call each other in advance; they just know to show up.
 Many evenings, they get together for a game of poker. The good chemistry between Ryan and his friends may have something to do with their decision to spend the summer hanging out together. 
 ''This is a special group of kids,'' said Caryn Englander, mother of Sam, one of Ryan's friends. ''They're kind to each other. They don't have cliques.''
 After stickball, Ryan has dinner, then watches the news or a baseball game. He runs a small business taking orders for a printing company on commission. He reads from his school's summer reading list (right now he is in the middle of ''The Body of Christopher Creed''). 
 His mother, Pam, is usually at home during the day, and he likes the feeling of being in the house with her, not necessarily interacting very much, but keeping each other company.
 He also enjoys a certain amount of solitude. ''I just like to have time to myself, just thinking,'' he said.
 Bob and Leosinda Lebron have decided that summer camp is an unnecessary luxury. Their older boys, Alex, 15, and Kevin, 10, are able to stay at home in Jackson, N.J., and go wherever the day takes them.
 Mr. Lebron jostles the boys awake before leaving for his 75-minute journey up the parkway to his advertising job in Morristown. Mrs. Lebron drops off the baby, Sophie, 2, at a babysitter's house in town before driving to her job as a programmer at Merrill Lynch in Hopewell. 
 The boys then come downstairs and crash for a few more hours on the couch, their circadian rhythms thrown out of whack by the horror movies they stay up late watching. 
 When they do rise, they engage in the most time-honored of summer traditions. ''We mostly watch T.V. and go outside,'' Kevin said. Outside amounts to collecting box turtles, playing hockey and throwing a stuffed teddy bear at a live hornets nest. Occasionally, their father will ask them to ''clean something'' with mixed results. While the summer days pass languorously enough for the boys, afternoons and evenings are often devoted to shuttling back and forth to hockey practices and games all over South Jersey. Nobody seems to miss summer camp. 
 ''I spend enough money on hockey that I couldn't afford it even if I wanted to,'' Mr. Lebron said. ''Plus, I just think they're safer at home. Particularly when you have a retired police officer next door.''
 The summer has also featured a two-week visit by Mrs. Lebron's sister and her family from Colombia with the requisite field trips to the beach and even Yankee Stadium. 
 For other parents, like Ann Bonini, who lives in Canton, Conn., summer is a juggling act. Ms. Bonini works part-time as a bookkeeper at Hartford Florist Supply, which is run by her husband, Richard. She often takes her children, Hannah, 5, Henry, 8, and Olivia, 10, to work with her, and they work, too. ''We fill out a time sheet,'' Henry said. ''And we clean walls and weed.''
 Henry admits that the summer days can be long, and he sometimes wishes he could go to camp. But his mother says they moved to their neighborhood of front porches, rolling lawns and smooth driveways so the children would have a place to play. Sending them away for the summer would defeat the purpose of living in such an idyllic setting. ''Camps are not necessary here,'' she said.
 Aleaze Hodgens feels the same way about East Hampton, where she and her husband, Gerry, a retired New York City firefighter turned teacher, are raising their three children, Jack, 11, Joe, 12, and Jean, 14.
 ''We have the bay on one side of us and the ocean on the other side,'' she said, ''so we're really in a summer camp.''
 She and her husband limit computers, videogames and television to two hours a day. The kids play penny poker almost every night and do a lot of chores: washing the car, splitting wood, doing the laundry. ''If you can work a Nintendo, you can certainly operate a washing machine,'' she tells them.
 Should parents send their children away for the summer? That depends on what those children have been doing for the rest of the year, said Ester S. Buchholz, a professor of applied psychology at New York University, and the author of ''The Call of Solitude: Alonetime in a World of Attachment'' (Simon & Schuster, 1997).
 Some children do need a break, because their lives have been too structured, too pressured, Dr. Buchholz said.
 ''Our culture these days is very into not wasting a moment's time,'' she said. ''We must teach our children everything under the sun starting from Day 1. But if our thoughts are always monitored and programmed by others, then how do we build our own judgment, our own sense of who we are and our personal integrity?''
 There is such a thing, Dr. Buchholz said, as too much stimulation. And constant activity can become a way of avoiding independent thinking. If the television or the camp counselor is always telling children what to do next, there is no need for them to be creative.
 ''If you look at the lives of the people who have been the most productive, if you look at the Einstein or the Mozart, they had a lot of time, a lot of space and quiet,'' she said. ''It's sort of funny that we want to emulate them, but we're actually not.''
 On the other hand, Dr. Buchholz said, the over-structured life seems to be a problem for affluent children more than for poor children. It's those who can't afford to travel or to take music and art lessons who need summer camp the most and who are least likely to get it.
 Still, even for poor families, there are compensations to staying close to home. Ms. Buchholz said they are, for instance, more likely to rely on relatives to take care of their children. Barbara Hicks, who is retired from working in a laundry and is raising her two granddaughters, Sasha, 15, and Shamira, 14, in Hartford, sees summer as a time for the girls to spend time with their network of cousins and their older sister. The bonds between the cousins, Ms. Hicks said, grow stronger with each passing summer.
 In some places, government officials have tried to strip away the economic barriers that keep children home when they would rather be in camp.
 Kate Murray, the Hempstead supervisor, estimates that 2,500 children from 5 to 13 years old are participating in free town recreational programs this summer and another 10,000 are taking swimming lessons.
 ''Most of the time kids can ride their bike and get to a pool,'' she said. ''The accessibility is there. We offer a little bit of independence for kids growing up. They can spread their wings and be in a very safe environment.''
 And every time she visits a town pool, she says, she feels as if she were a child again, back in that misty land of memory, when she was free to be and not to do.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Scott, above right, and Henry Bonini have spent the summer playing the guitar, swimming and riding their bikes (with Henry's sister Olivia) in the Bonini's yard in Canton. Below, Ryan Kahn watching Jon Sadok take a pitch during a game of stickball at a school near their houses in New Rochelle, N.Y. After stickball, the boys frequently get together for a game of poker.
Eric Scott taking a break from playing with his friends in Canton and having a slice of watermelon.
 Dave Thornell with his daughter, Sydney, and son, Aidan, filling the air in his daughter's bike. Emeline Thornell, at rear, said of their Summit, N.J., neighborhood, ''Everyone on the block just goes outside and plays and people talk to each other on the stoops.'' (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Drawing (Drawing by Felipe Galindo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); CITIES (74%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%) Seasons and Months ; Children and Youth; Families and Family Life; Suburbs

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



184 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1919 words

HEADLINE: Divorced Parents Move, and Custody Gets Trickier

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
Not too long ago, Jacqueline Scott Sheid was a pretty typical Upper East Side mother. Divorced and with a young daughter, she had quickly remarried, borne a son, and interrupted her career to stay home with the children while her husband, Xavier Sheid, worked on Wall Street.
 Early last year, Mr. Sheid lost his job and saw his only career opportunity in California. But Ms. Sheid's ex-husband, who shares joint legal custody of their daughter, refused to allow the girl to move away. So Ms. Sheid has spent much of the last year using JetBlue to shuttle between her son and husband on the West Coast and her daughter (and ex) on the East.
 The New York court system, which she hoped would help her family to resolve the problem, has cost her tens of thousands of dollars in fees for court-appointed experts, she said, and has helped to prolong the process by objecting to her choice of lawyers. 
 Worst, she added, ''they are making me choose between my children.'' 
 Ms. Sheid is caught up in what legal experts and social scientists say may be the most contentious and fastest-growing kind of custody litigation in the country today: relocation cases. Also known as move-aways, these involve a parent who wants to move with a child over the other parent's objections.
 More fathers, who play a larger role in their children's daily lives than in earlier decades, are refusing to allow their children to move out of town, forcing mothers -- who about 80 percent of the time have physical custody of children -- to remain in the same city. And more mothers are fighting back.
 Spurred by such changes in society, in the law and in the economy, relocation cases are roiling families, and courtrooms, from California to Colorado to Connecticut.
 Relocation ''is the hottest issue in the divorce courts at the moment,'' said Judith S. Wallerstein, a leading expert on divorce from Marin County, Calif., who favors the rights of mothers to move. 
 Though there are no reliable statistics on these cases, the highest courts in at least seven states have tackled relocations in the last three years, and lawyers say they represent just the tip of the litigation iceberg.
 ''We tell people, the best parent is both parents, and it's hard to be a long-distance parent,'' said David L. Levy, president of the Children's Rights Council, a longtime advocate for fathers' rights and joint custody. ''There are 15 million noncustodial fathers in this country, and 3 million noncustodial mothers. They shouldn't be marginalized.''
 As fathers' rights groups have organized around the country, judges and legislators have become more sensitive to the heartbreak of parents separated from their children. But now mothers with physical custody say they feel trapped in untenable situations, especially since alimony has become uncommon and the economy remains rocky in many regions. Judges say that they find all custody cases difficult, but for many, relocations can be the toughest and most time-consuming. When warring parents live far apart, it is hard to come up with a plan that allows them to share the child.
 ''It's much more difficult to come up with a Solomon-like decision,'' said Sharon S. Townsend, a longtime family court judge who is now the state administrative judge in western New York. And the task has only become more difficult since 9/11, she said, as parents have become more reluctant to let children travel alone.
 The United States remains a highly mobile society; a 2000 Census Bureau survey found that in a 12-month period, 43.4 million people changed residences. Americans have become more likely to move longer distances, the survey found, and divorced people are far more likely to move than those who are married.
 Ultimately, relocation cases usually come down to ''the best interests of the child,'' but there is little agreement about what that means. In many states, including New York, judges have a laundry list of factors to consider, but no clear way to weigh their importance.
 Although the laws differ in each state, judges hearing such cases usually begin in a traditional way, weighing whether one parent is more fit than the other. But then they have to assess the motives for the proposed moves and for the objections. Does the parent who wants to move have a compelling reason, or is she just trying to keep the child away from the father? Does the parent who opposes the move really want to be involved with the child, or is he just trying to control his ex-wife?
 Complicating matters, lawyers say, judges technically do not have jurisdiction over the parents' right to move, only over the relocation of the children. Practically, though, judges know they can often stop a move by threatening to give the other parent custody. (Noncustodial parents can move without dealing with the court at all.)
 The legal and moral difficulty of such cases was made clear in April in a case decided by the California Supreme Court involving the two sons of Gary LaMusga (pronounced LA-moo-shay) and Susan Poston Navarro, who divorced in 1996.
 Ms. Navarro, who had primary physical custody of the boys, remarried and had another child. In 2001, she asked the court for permission to move to Cleveland, where her husband had gotten a better job.
 Mr. LaMusga objected, saying that she was trying to alienate the boys from him, and asked for primary custody if she moved.
 After the State Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, the amicus briefs poured in from representatives of women's groups, Legal Aid lawyers, law school deans, and mental health professionals.
 But the crux of the debate over the best interests of children was summed up in two papers filed by researchers.
 One, favoring the right to move, was written by Dr. Wallerstein, the founder of the Center for the Family in Transition, who is known for her studies on the long-term effects of divorce. She argued that the most important things for children after divorce were that their relationship with their custodial parent was protected and that their wishes were heard. 
 An opposing brief was written by Richard A. Warshak, a Dallas psychologist whose most recent book is ''Divorce Poison: Protecting the Parent-Child Bond From a Vindictive Ex'' (Regan Books, 2003).
 Dr. Warshak wrote that Dr. Wallerstein had ignored research showing that children do better when both parents are involved in their day-to-day lives, something that cannot be accomplished through summer or holiday visits.
 As Dr. Warshak said in a telephone interview, ''If it weren't a problem to live apart from your children, then it wouldn't be a problem for a mother to leave a child behind.''
 But Dr. Wallerstein said in an interview that she agrees that in the best of circumstances, children do best with both parents. ''That sounds like a very good argument for marriage,'' she said dryly. ''The issue is, the people who come to court are not cooperative parents.''
 In a ruling that is expected to influence courts around the country, the California Supreme Court ruled against Ms. Navarro. It decided that the parent with physical custody has the right to choose the child's residence, unless the other parent can show some detriment to the child. At that point, a judge has to undertake a ''best interests'' custody inquiry.
 The ramifications of the decision are a matter of debate, even among those closely involved. ''We won't know until the next five years,'' said Philip M. Stahl, who was the court-appointed psychological evaluator. While he hopes courts will follow a best-interest standard in which no factor is automatically most important, he said, ''The difficulty will be if people view this change as, 'We have to keep parents in the same community.'''
 Kim M. Robinson, Ms. Navarro's lawyer, said her client was considering asking the United States Supreme Court to review whether the decision violates her constitutional right to travel. And the California Senate is planning to hold a hearing later this month on legislation that would permit moves under most circumstances.
 The next relocation battleground may be Colorado, where in 2001 the legislature abolished a legal presumption that custodial parents have the right to move.
 Now the State Court of Appeals has ruled that the parent who wants to move must show a direct benefit to the child, not just an indirect one like a job opportunity for a parent. Some legal commentators have contended that this places an insurmountable barrier to moves.
 The case involves Michelle A. Ciesluk and Christopher J. Ciesluk, who were divorced in 2002. Their son, Connor, now 7, lives primarily with his mother in Parker, Colo.
 In early 2003, Ms. Ciesluk lost her job when Sprint reduced its work force; the company offered to rehire her, she said, but only if she moved to Arizona.
 In Denver, she has not been able to find a job with benefits, she said in a telephone interview, and is working for $10 an hour as an administrative assistant.
 ''How hard is it? Oh, honey,'' Ms. Ciesluk said. ''Very, very hard. The money thing, worrying about where my next meal will come from, worrying about Connor. My whole life is on hold.''
 Mr. Ciesluk declined to be interviewed, his lawyer said, and referred a reporter to his legal briefs. That filing said Mr. Ciesluk opposes the move because ''he does not want to lose the relationship he presently has'' with his son, and would not be able to attend the boy's athletic and school activities. He added that Mr. Ciesluk is ''aware of the difficulties in maintaining a close relationship from a distance.'' 
 Ms. Ciesluk is planning to appeal the decision barring her move with Connor, said her lawyer, Anne Whalen Gill.
 As states like Colorado increasingly turn to ''best interest'' analyses, they may find that there are some drawbacks to what is essentially a subjective approach, including the likelihood of more litigation, uncertainty for families and increased costs and delays. 
 In New York, which has been a ''best interests'' state since a 1996 decision called Tropea v. Tropea, judicial decisions about relocations are all over the map. This year alone, judges have decided at least two dozen cases involving relocation. While most moves have been refused, a small number were approved.
 ''It doesn't give lawyers a lot of ability to predict what will happen,'' said Barbara Ellen Handschu, the incoming president of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers and an expert in New York on relocations.
 Ms. Sheid, the Upper East Side mother, who spoke to a reporter on the condition that her children's names not appear in print, has little good to say about her experience in court. She was belittled by the judge, she said, and stereotyped by the court-appointed experts, who portrayed her husband as a greedy, selfish Wall Street tycoon and her as a wimpy little woman. She said they ignored her husband's financial obligations, which include the support of his teenage daughter and elderly parents.
 The court-appointed lawyer and psychologist both declined to comment, as did Ms. Sheid's former spouse. Like most parents in relocation cases, Ms. Sheid finally decided to try to settle with her former husband, who lives in the Connecticut suburbs. 
 At this point, her main goal is to make sure her daughter, now 8, can continue to attend her New York City school. Moving her to California seems out of the question. ''I'm hoping maybe the only thing a parent in my position can hope for,'' Ms. Sheid said, her voice trailing off, ''that maybe when she's older ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jacqueline Scott Sheid waited last month in New York for a flight to California to see her son and husband, who moved there last year. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 Michelle Ciesluk of Parker, Colo., in her son's room. She wants to move to Arizona with him. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (91%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (89%); PARENTS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); LAWYERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RELOCATIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (52%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (52%) Child Custody and Support; Suits and Litigation; Child Custody and Support

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (57%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: Leslie Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



185 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Companies Find They Can't Buy Love With Bargains

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. TAYLOR. 
William C. Taylor is a co-founder and the founding editor of Fast Company magazine. He's writing a book called ''Mavericks at Work.''

 BODY:
CORPORATE executives have plenty to worry about these days: a sideways stock market, the backlash against offshoring and additional scrutiny from regulators. But they may want to pay attention to one more worrisome issue -- a rocky relationship with customers.
 Companies are offering the best bargains in history. It has never been cheaper to fly from Dallas to Los Angeles, to make a phone call from Boston to Brussels or to buy a computer or a DVD player. Yet the harder companies work to make products cheaper and better, the less they seem to impress their customers. 
 The American Customer Satisfaction Index, the definitive benchmark of how buyers feel about what business is selling them, will reach its 10-year anniversary this fall. For business -- the index measures satisfaction for 200 companies in 40 industries -- it is hardly a cause for celebration. Some scores have risen in the last few years, but many industries and companies rate lower today than they did in 1994, and the index is down over all. 
 A decade ago, on a scale of 0 to 100, the overall index was 74.8. The most recent score was 74.4. Back then, the airline industry was at 72; the most recent score was 66. Telecommunications was at 81; the most recent score was 71. Personal computers were at 78; the most recent score was 72. 
 The bottom line is that despite a decade of spectacular advances in hardware price and performance, as well as an explosion of innovation in consumer electronics, mobile phones, Internet access and low-cost travel, customers remain unmoved, even downright unappreciative.
 Claes Fornell, a professor at the University of Michigan Business School and the creator of the satisfaction index, describes business's track record during the index's first decade as mixed. Some industries and companies, he notes, have been consistently strong performers. What's striking, though, is that most of the best-performing companies are in the most traditional parts of the economy. 
 The company with the highest index rating, a 90, is H.J. Heinz -- no one's idea of a cutting-edge enterprise, but a venerable producer of familiar foodstuffs like ketchup and pork and beans. A decade ago, its rating was 89. Meanwhile, the most recent score for Hewlett-Packard, Silicon Valley's fabled innovator, was 70, down from 78 in 1994. 
 The problem? Too many companies confuse selling clever gadgets at good prices with delighting customers. When so many products get cheaper every year, offering customers a great bargain will not necessarily win their loyalty. Someone else is bound to offer a better bargain, and besides, most customers have come to expect good deals. ''Price has an effect on whether you buy or not,'' Dr. Fornell says. ''It has less of an impact on whether you're satisfied or not.''
 Seth Godin, an entrepreneur, marketing expert and author of the new book ''Free Prize Inside: The Next Big Marketing Idea'' (Portfolio, $19.95), calls this lack of gratitude the FedEx paradox. ''When FedEx started, it was a miracle,'' he says. ''You put something in an envelope and it showed up anywhere in the United States the next day. It was breathtaking -- for about a week. And then, if the letter was five minutes late, you said, 'I want my money back.' Companies keep raising the bar on expectations.''
 That doesn't mean every chief executive has to aspire to create the next Nike or Restoration Hardware or Starbucks -- companies that got out of the price-performance trap by turning everyday products into lifestyle statements. (Sometimes a cappuccino is just a cappuccino.) It does mean that to stand out in the eyes of hard-to-please customers, companies have to figure out how to stand for something a little out of the ordinary.
 Vermont Teddy Bear is a small company whose impressive turnaround shows the power of creating a connection with customers rather than competing on price. Its chief executive, Elisabeth B. Robert, chuckles about how improbable it is ''to use Howard Stern to sell $85 teddy bears to grown men.'' 
 But that's what the company does. It aims marketing for its Bear-Grams -- teddy bears sent by mail, nearly a third of which are sold in the two weeks before Valentine's Day -- to a customer whom it dubs Late Jack. He is nervous about picking the right gift, waits until the last minute and is looking for something both personal and goof-proof. 
 Ms. Robert reaches these customers by using live spots on radio and television programs aimed at men -- Mr. Stern's program, sports talk shows, even auto-racing programs. Company employees occasionally appear on the programs to banter with the hosts. Telephone operators (''bear counselors,'' in company parlance, who most assuredly do not work in India) offer advice about ways to personalize a gift and reassure callers that their selections will arrive on time.
 ''WE'RE not selling our products,'' Ms. Robert explains. ''We're selling our people. We have a live relationship with our customers, on the radio and on the phone.'' That's why, she adds, customers can order a Bear-Gram only by calling Vermont Teddy Bear directly or by using the company's Web site. ''The idea of anyone else touching our customer's credit card makes me feel queasy,'' she says.
 Before Ms. Robert took over, Vermont Teddy Bear defined its business in conventional terms -- selling toys, complete with expensive retail space in Manhattan -- with disastrous results. In 1997, the company's low point, annual sales dipped to $17 million from $24 million a few years earlier. Under Ms. Robert, annual sales exceed $50 million. 
 You don't have to be a cute company based in a quaint state to forge a genuine bond with customers. For two consecutive years, Amazon.com, the Internet giant, has registered the satisfaction index's highest-ever score for a retailer -- in fact, a record score for any company in the service sector. 
 Why does Amazon produce such satisfied customers? Low prices and wide selection play a part. But plenty of retailers, on the Internet and at the mall, offer good deals and scads of merchandise. The real secret, says Bill Price, a former vice president of global customer service at Amazon, is the site's evolving menu of features and services that make it more friendly, more reliable and easier to use -- little touches that personalize the site for each buyer. 
 ''Most of these features were inspired by customers,'' says Mr. Price, who left Amazon in 2001 and now advises other companies on how to improve service. ''Our job was to listen to customers and invent for customers.''
 The result of years' worth of small innovations is a shopping experience so distinctive and so intuitive that it amounts to a huge competitive advantage -- and an eye-popping satisfaction-index score of 88. By comparison, Wal-Mart, which trumpets its low prices, registers a score of 75.
 Now, if Amazon can only catch Heinz.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Companies have cut the cost of flying, making phone calls and buying electronic equipment, but that has not satisfied consumers. (Photos by clockwise, from top left, Steve Helber/Associated Press
Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News
Tim Boyle/Getty Images
 Richard Sheinwald/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); AIRLINES (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: American Customer Satisfaction Index

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (52%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (52%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (52%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: William C Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



186 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: What Color Is Your Parachute?

BYLINE: By Keith Dixon. 
Keith Dixon is the author of a novel, ''Ghostfires.''

 BODY:

D. B.
By Elwood Reid.
356 pp. Doubleday. $23.95.
 ELWOOD REID begins his third novel where a lot writers would have ended it. As ''D. B.'' opens, both D. B. Cooper, the legendary airplane hijacker, and Frank Marshall, an F.B.I. agent assigned to capture him, have passed the defining moments of their lives -- for Cooper, the crime that earned him $200,000 and a place among America's folk heroes; for Marshall, his retirement from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, an event that seems to have earned him nothing but an awareness of his own mortality. Each man drifts through his fallow postretirement days, robbed of the very thing that gave his life direction. Reid compares their lives, with each man's struggle decoding the other's despair. 
 True story: in 1971, a man calling himself Dan Cooper hijacked an airplane bound from Portland, Ore., to Seattle and demanded a ransom along with four parachutes. After the plane landed in Seattle and his demands were met, he sent the passengers off the plane and told the pilot to take off again. At altitude, he leapt from the rear exit of the plane with the cash. Though a small portion of the money was later found, Cooper himself vanished. 
 Reid's fictionalized Cooper is a Vietnam veteran named Phil Fitch, who hijacked the plane and assumed his new identity because he was depressed, unemployed and alone; he had begun to suspect that even legitimately successful men ''were faking it, hiding some deep urge to run away.'' After his exploit, Fitch is condemned to anonymity, and has spent the last 13 years transfixed by a history he cannot claim for fear of drawing the attention of the law. Reid ruthlessly refracts Fitch's aimless present through the bright prism of his past: in the newspapers, Fitch reads about the annual D. B. Cooper Day celebrated in Ariel, Wash., and is left in despair. Fitch is a man out of his element; believing he is destined for great things, the question seems not to be whether he will resurrect his old identity, but when.
 Frank Marshall is living exactly the sort of straight life that Fitch hoped to escape. Marshall has a tidy house and family, but he has met his mandatory retirement age, and his work in the F.B.I., which largely defined him, has been taken away. He suffers from the same aimlessness as Fitch, exacerbated by post-retirement inactivity and the doldrums of a long-term marriage. On one of Marshall's first mornings away from work, he observes his spotless home and notes, not with satisfaction but with terror, that ''everything was in its place.'' He has always been the sort of man for whom idleness is something of a curse. 
 Just as Fitch is absorbed by D. B. Cooper Day, Marshall is troubled by the finger bone of a skeleton he found while searching for Cooper 13 years earlier. On the day he found the bone, Marshall realized that for every body that is found there is another never found, a life ended but unconcluded. Marshall has kept the bone as a sort of anticharm, using its emblematic incompleteness as dark inspiration for his work as an agent. Though the bone ''had become a memento mori of the unidentified woman and Cooper still out there somewhere,'' after his retirement it assumes an accusatory quality, a symbol of Marshall's abandoned sense of purpose.
 Both men eventually fall victim to their impulses, and return, geographically and figuratively, to the lives they left behind. Fitch, jealous that his girlfriend, Inez, thinks of her dead husband while they make love, confesses to her that he is D. B. Cooper. Inez soon hires three bandits to beat and rob him; Fitch, broke and chastened, must head north to the United States to recover the portion of the money he stashed there. 
 Marshall, meanwhile, is in a relationship with Anne Blackwood, the wife of a criminal he once captured. J. B. Blackwood has skipped bail and is said to be nearby; Marshall uses his rumored proximity as an excuse to hang around Anne's house, where they maintain a complicated platonic distance. Though Marshall lusts after Anne, he lacks the conviction to see his desires through. Poised between the suspicions of his wife, Clare, and the coquetry of Anne, he languishes in a sexual purgatory reminiscent of Fitch's Mexican exile. As Marshall's entanglement with Anne deepens, he finds himself owing a favor to Tim Peck, a younger F.B.I. agent still obsessed with the long-unsolved Cooper file. Marshall's debt to Peck leads him steadily back into the Cooper case, and eventually Marshall's and Fitch's paths collide. 
 Reid, whose previous books include ''If I Don't Six'' and ''Midnight Sun,'' writes smart and direct prose: Marshall, hiking alone in the woods, sees in the dying day ''a woozy rain-socked glow''; as Fitch anticipates sex, he hopes for the sublime but decides ''he'd settle for quick and dirty and maybe even something painful.''
 By shifting the reader's attention from the overtly dramatic to the psychological, Reid has written something much more engaging than the mere suspense novel ''D. B.'' might have been.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HIJACKING (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (75%); RETIREMENT AGE (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: Keith Dixon; Elwood Reid

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



187 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: THE GOODS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Make Way, Joggers, For a Road Hog

BYLINE: By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
SAVE for the addition of a third wheel, the Trikke looks an awful lot like the two-wheeled Razor scooter, the must-have toy of 2000. Same aluminum frame, same polyurethane wheels. Yet given the Razor's swift decline from chic to passe, the Trikke's maker, Trikke Tech Inc., prefers to play down the similarities. 
 ''We have spent so much of our time breaking through the stigma of the scooter craze,'' said William Schlueter, vice president of marketing for the company, which is based in Marina del Rey, Calif. ''We have to go to people and say, 'The fundamentals of how this operates makes it everything but a scooter.''' 
 For starters, it's certainly trickier to learn. Unlike the Razor, which requires the occasional push-off with a foot, the Trikke (it rhymes with bike) is propelled solely by the side-to-side rocking of the rider's body. The ideal motion closely resembles that of skiing or in-line skating. As a result, the Trikke is a bit of a road hog and not well suited to crowded Manhattan sidewalks, where Razors were once common.
 It's a much better fit on open roads or jogging trails, which has led Trikke Tech to market the product toward fitness buffs rather than the urban youths who snapped up Razors. Mr. Schlueter describes Trikke's target audience as ''the outdoor sports enthusiast type of crowd'' that likes to combine locomotion with cardiovascular exercise.
 Reaching that crowd hasn't always been easy, given the long memories of store owners burned by the Razor fad. In the summer of 2000, Razor was shipping 250,000 scooters a week, and cheap copies were available on street corners from Washington to Warsaw. After the recession in 2001, ''a lot of people were left holding the bag, with containerloads of scooters,'' said Mr. Schlueter. Razor USA of Cerritos, Calif., shifted much of its energy to selling air-powered pogo sticks and minibikes.
 One of the distributors hit hard by the scooter flameout was John Simpson, a serial entrepreneur who also once sold the Tamagotchi electronic pets made by the Bandai Company. Mr. Simpson became Trikke Tech's president in 2002, after an earlier incarnation of the company floundered. He hired a public relations executive with Hollywood connections, who scored a marketing coup by turning Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt into Trikke enthusiasts. That provided enough publicity to sell out Trikke Tech's 1,000-unit backlog and reinvigorate the company.
 Mr. Simpson's strategy since then has been to position Trikkes, which cost $139 to $199, depending on the model, as akin to athlete-oriented rollerblades rather child-oriented Razors. That means organizing races to highlight the Trikke's athletic nature as well as funding a 48-year-old adventurer's 2,400-mile Trikke journey across the United States.
 Mr. Simpson has also been content to grow slowly, avoiding mainstream outlets like Wal-Mart in favor of specialty skateboarding and biking shops. Mr. Schlueter says the learning curve on the Trikke is steep enough to require one-on-one instruction in many cases.
 Trikke Tech, which is privately owned by five people, has so far shipped 250,000 units worldwide -- equal to what Razor was churning out every week in mid-2000. There is concern about copycats, given the fact that Razor was forced to file more than a dozen patent-infringement lawsuits during the scooter craze. But the company is confident that its patent portfolio can stave off any me-too products.
 STILL, the company isn't waiting for tough times to start diversifying. A SnowTrikke is coming this fall, and a Trikke featuring an electric motor is in the works, though that seems to run contrary to Trikke Tech's pitch that its flagship vehicle is geared toward athletes. 
 The hope seems to be that Trikke's name recognition will soon be high enough to interest couch potatoes, too. And maybe even some of those youngsters whose Razors are now stuffed in the closet.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Trikke is propelled by the rocking of the rider's body. (Photo by William Schlueter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (87%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); SPORTS FANS (72%); POLYURETHANE (72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); WALKING & JOGGING (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); SPORTS (67%); SKIING (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%) Trikkes

COMPANY: BANDAI CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Trikke Tech Inc

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%); JENNIFER ANISTON (50%) Brendan I Koerner

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



188 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT/Erin St.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Trading Boardroom for a Camper's Bunk

BYLINE: By John Kelly. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BRIAN COHEN has spent the last 20 years trying to get back to camp. His quest has been indirect, a secret wish, but this summer he made it real: He left his job and went.
 Mr. Cohen, 39, a married father of three from Brooklyn, was senior vice president for marketing at Elektra Records, pulling in an income in the high six figures. 
 Now he is a camp counselor. But he did not give up his career just to be a counselor forever. He plans to run his own camp, a dream he has harbored since he attended camp as a boy. He and his wife, Maggie Poxon, 39, hope to own a camp by next summer. But a job on a lower rung is the first step.
 ''I've been in training for this for six or eight months,'' Mr. Cohen said while standing in front of the musty and worn counselor's bunk, called the Hotel, that is his current home at a camp in Elmer, N.J. 
 It may seem like a strange career choice, but Mr. Cohen is not alone. Bette Bussel, executive director of the American Camping Association, New England, said his switch from business executive to camp professional is not that odd. ''More recently there are more Wall Street professionals hanging it up and going to camp,'' Ms. Bussel said. ''It is a small trend, but it is picking up.'' 
 In his youth, Mr. Cohen attended the Lighthouse, an art and music camp in Pine Grove, Pa. ''I loved my camp so much, and the fantasy was recreating it,'' he said. ''I did imagine staying there the rest of my life.'' 
 His dream made way for adulthood: he graduated from Columbia and soon began his career in the record business. ''It was dormant for while, but it was always there,'' he said. ''At the end of the 90's I started to make a bit of money and it started. Maggie and I started looking at properties.''
 Mr. Cohen's idea for a camp evolved from a re-creation of the Lighthouse to his own version: staff members and campers working on a big ''iconic'' project. But his ultimate mission is simple: ''Make every day of summer great for every kid.'' Mr. Cohen, who will draw on his own savings, said starting a camp costs $2 million to $4 million.
 The couple named their nascent camp Beam, inspired partly by the Lighthouse. They found another couple to be partners in the venture, joined the American Camping Association and went to conventions honing their plan and shopping for a camp.
 Ms. Poxon explained that they were repeatedly told by association members that there was no way they could successfully run a camp without having worked at one, so Mr. Cohen answered a help wanted ad in Camping Magazine.
 He ended up deep in rural southern New Jersey at Appel Farm, a camp that specializes in art and music. It is one of 8,000 sleepaway camps in the United States. He is the head counselor for the 14-to-17-year-olds and is the journalism and saxophone instructor. He plays saxophone in the camp's various bands in the practice room, surrounded by the campers, almost blending in with his baseball cap, T-shirt and baggy shorts. But his wedding ring and the shots of silver through his hair give him away.
 Jennie Quinn, assistant camp director at Appel Farm, said that when staff members received his application, they told one another ''he might think he wants to do this, but he doesn't.'' But Mr. Cohen wouldn't take no for an answer. 
 He is getting four weeks of camp for two of his children (Dexter, 8, and Bess, 10) and about $800 in pay for his nine weeks of work, but he also gets an education. ''It's like I am learning from professors,'' he said. 
 In his journalism class, he is under the gimlet-eyed scrutiny of 13-year-old girls. He puzzles them a little, but they think they have him figured out. ''We thought he was having a midlife crisis,'' Ruthie Hertzberg and Olivia Briley chimed in unison.
 ''It's confusing. He's wearing his Elektra hat, he obviously liked his job,'' Olivia said. ''O.K., Brian, what're you going to do the rest of the year?''
 Mr. Cohen is walking what he has defined as a ''righteous path: knowing what your values are and what things are important to you.'' As Elektra Records was folded into Atlantic Records under the Warner MusicGroup last spring, Mr. Cohen coached his employees to prepare for an uncertain future by finding their own righteous paths. He said that his choice to leave Elektra and go to camp empowered him to counsel others and that actually realizing his new career was even better than just planning it.
 ''When it was daydreaming, there was anxiety,'' he said. ''Now I know what I have to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Cohen, a former record label executive, is a counselor at Appel Farm, a camp in Elmer, N.J., and plays saxophone in its bands. He hopes to run his own camp soon. (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%) Camps and Camping; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION (55%); THE LIGHTHOUSE (54%) Appel Farm (Elmer, NJ); Elektra Records

PERSON: Brian Cohen; Erin St John Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



189 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: A Long-Distance Search, and a Leap of Faith

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AFTER several years in Philadelphia, Kathryn Finney and Tobias Wright decided it was time to move to New York. But after four months of long-distance looking, they were so miserable they considered giving up and staying put.
 ''It shouldn't be this hard to find a place to live,'' said Ms. Finney, 28, who did all of the work -- posting notices on Internet bulletin boards, scouring Web sites and tromping around to open houses. She felt frustrated and exhausted. ''It was a bigger undertaking than we had grasped,'' she said. 
 What finally worked? Networking. ''That's the way you get most everything in life -- friends and contacts,'' said Mr. Wright, 29, who is relentlessly easygoing.
 In late July, the couple relinquished their two-bedroom apartment in a Philadelphia high-rise and moved into a two-bedroom row house across the Hudson River, in Jersey City. 
 Their rent jumped to $1,800 from $1,300. They're gaining a small backyard and a washer-dryer, and giving up one bathroom and a parking place.
 Ms. Finney and Mr. Wright, from Minneapolis and Detroit respectively, found themselves working in Philadelphia after college -- she in the public-health field and he as a graphic and Web designer. The two met through friends, who set them up after both complained about not knowing anybody nearby.
 Shortly after their marriage two years ago, and tempted by low interest rates, they considered buying a house. They got pre-approved for a mortgage and even bid on a place that, upon inspection, turned out to be infested with termites.
 Still, they never planned to be in Philadelphia long-term. ''We don't have a lot of ties there,'' Mr. Wright said. ''But life got to us, and we stayed a year longer than we planned.''
 Meanwhile, Ms. Finney's avocation -- Budget Fashionista (thebudgetfashionista.com), an online shopping site, spawned by her interest in clothes shopping -- was turning into a viable business. Last winter, she left her job to become the fashionista full time, and found herself traveling constantly to New York.
 It was an unhappy schedule. ''If I had a meeting at 10, I would have to get up at 5:30,'' she said. ''We decided we should move before we figured out excuses not to and before we had children who would make us not be able to.''
 Their goal was a two-bedroom rental for $2,000 at most -- depending on how nice the place was. Ms. Finney quickly soured on the online bulletin board Craigslist, despite the many promising rental ads.
 Coming from Philadelphia, ''it was difficult to schedule that one time they were showing it -- like between 11 and 1 that day,'' she said. Many listings lacked essential information or had hefty application fees. ''It does not cost $150 to do a credit check,'' she said. She felt deceived by no-fee ads, where ''they said, 'The apartment is already given away but I can help you find one for a fee.' ''
 Some of Ms. Finney's college friends had found ''fabulous apartments'' in Harlem a few years ago, but she could not find anything fabulous.
 At $2,300, one two-bedroom on Lenox Avenue was ''ridiculously expensive.'' Another, on West 116th Street near Frederick Douglass Boulevard, was nice, but the neighborhood felt unsafe. In that case, the competition was college students whose parents offered to ''plop down the entire year's rent'' in advance, she said.
 They decided against a two-bedroom in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The price was right -- $1,100 -- but the apartment was in a two-family house, and they felt odd having the landlady downstairs.
 ''We would have been her first tenants and we would have been teaching her how to be a landlord,'' Ms. Finney said. ''I felt she would be watching us.''
 Unfortunately, her expertise as a budget clothing sleuth didn't help when it came to housing. The couple thought about squeezing into a studio, resorting to a broker and -- ever more appealing -- staying where they were.
 ''It was becoming too much of a drama to find a simple apartment,'' Ms. Finney said. ''We weren't asking for the world. I felt it was so unnecessarily hard. It was depressing and making me really tired.''
 Then, about a month ago, the telephone rang. It was the friend of a friend from college, who was taking a new job (by coincidence, in Philadelphia) and vacating her Jersey City rental. She recommended Ms. Finney and Mr. Wright to the landlord, who ran a credit check, called the management company of their Philadelphia building and gave them the go-ahead.
 ''We said we wanted it without seeing it, based on three friends who said how nice it was -- we were that desperate,'' Ms. Finney said. She was nervous as they drove up. ''The whole trip on the turnpike I was, like, 'Tobias, please, I hope this place is great, what happens if I go in and hate it -- I am just going to cry.' ''
 The found the outside drab, but the inside lovely, with a big kitchen on the ground floor, living and office space in the middle and the bedrooms on top. They loved the neighborhood, which is populated by young couples like themselves and filled with enough restaurants and stores to satisfy that shopping jones.
 For now, Mr. Wright plans to endure his new, lengthy commute to the Philadelphia suburbs, working partly from home while looking for a job in New York. He would have been happy living in a closet. Wisely, he left the house-hunting to his wife.
 ''I was like, 'We'll find a place, we'll move into the Y,' and she would look at me funny,'' he said. ''I knew she was in charge, so I definitely wasn't worried.''
 Their new landlord, Bobby Mortellito, said he bought the house in 1976 at a city auction when ''that area was a slum.'' It is now part of the Hamilton Park historic district. He lived there for two decades, before moving into a two-family house owned by his mother.
 His purchase price was $2,450. ''People get mad at me when I tell them that,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathryn Finney and Tobias Wright in their apartment in Philadelphia
A two-bedroom rental on Lenox Avenue cost $2,300 a month
Their two-bedroom red row house in Jersey City costs $1,800 a month
Inside their big kitchen on the ground floor (Photograph at top left by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times
photograph second from left by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times
 two photographs at top right by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); CITIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Housing; Biographical Information

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Joyce Cohen; Kathryn Finney; Tobias Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Jersey City (NJ); New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



190 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2548 words

HEADLINE: The Last Empty Lot

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
IN the late 60's, as a serious-looking, dark-eyed child, Frank Rodriguez used to climb up to the roof of his family's three-story walk-up at 911 Bruckner Boulevard in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx and fly his kite. Alone at the top of his little world, away from his parents and two brothers, he watched as the kite soared over the rooftops of apartment buildings dense with Jewish, Irish and Puerto Rican families.
 Within a decade, that view would be transformed. Virtually all of the surrounding apartment buildings burned down in the late 1970's, leaving a one-acre site, bounded by Southern Boulevard, the Bruckner Expressway and Tiffany and Barretto Streets, empty except for a few buildings and private houses like the Rodriguezes'. And what took place on the block was taking place throughout the neighborhood.
 ''It just emptied out overnight,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, a postal worker who lives with his 7-year-old son, his parents and a large extended family in the house where he grew up. ''I guess we stayed because my dad bought this house for future generations. He saw a future. He wanted his kids and grandkids to have something to look back on.'' 
 The neighborhood has traveled far since those grim days when the population of the community district that embraces Hunts Point and neighboring Longwood plummeted to 35,378 in 1980 from 96,042 in 1970. Starting in the 1980's, the population began creeping back, and statistical measurements of everything from the number of high school graduates to the number of owner-occupied buildings reflect the area's more robust social and economic health.
 Now, the largest empty lot remaining in Hunts Point, the one that Mr. Rodriguez can see from the roof of his family home, will soon be the site of what is billed as the neighborhood's last major rebuilding project. If it succeeds, it will be a striking capstone to the Hunts Point resurgence. 
 The project is known as Tiffany Gardens, and the Southeast Bronx Community Organization, which under its charismatic leader, the Rev. Louis R. Gigante, developed 3,000 units of housing since it started in 1968, is poised to break ground on the $14 million development as early as next month. The seven-story complex of red brick buildings, nearly the length of a football field, will contain 105 units of low- and middle-income housing, paid for by a combination of public and private money. 
 Some 18 years after Sebco gained control of the site, final approval for the project was granted in June by the state's Housing Finance Authority. The first residents could move in a year from this fall.
 The prospect of imminent construction on this site is perhaps the most visible and dramatic sign that Hunts Point is turning the page on a tumultuous time in its history. But there are other fresh signs of rebirth. Last fall, the long-troubled Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association got a new executive director, restoring its role as a major player in the neighborhood's development. Concrete plans are also falling into place for the two other big remaining lots in this community district, both on Prospect Avenue in Longwood. The city has hired a construction company to build 193 mixed-income apartments on one site and is moving ahead with plans for another 100 apartments on the second.
 Hunts Point has made gains on other fronts: with thriving institutions like The Point Community Development Corporation and the Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance, it has become a focal point for culture in the South Bronx. But it is housing -- everything from old buildings rescued from the dead to single-family row houses to new apartment buildings for low-income families and the elderly -- that has transformed the physical and demographic landscape.
 The transformation has had its bumps and backsliding, and much work lies ahead. But for families like the Rodriguezes, who have lived amid blight for so long, nothing so powerfully encapsulates the changes as the view outside their window.

The World of the Lot
 The vacant lot is not all you can see from the roof of the Rodriguezes' building. Beyond it, near St. Athanasius Roman Catholic Church, is a beautiful park, and a street blocked off for children to play. The Hunts Point branch library across the street, a red brick building modeled after a Florentine palace, had a face-lift three years ago. But the lot remains both an eyesore and a stirrer of memories.
 Frank Rodriguez's father, Angel Rodriguez, now 74, recalls the candy store that used to stand on the site and the Jewish friends from down the block who patronized it. ''Now people come and throw trash like it was a garbage can,'' he said. ''They even bring their dogs to do their business.''
 The nearly two decades of false starts on the Tiffany Gardens site are illustrative of how things have gone for Hunts Point. Even Sebco had no master plan. Instead, developers built whatever housing government money would finance, which at first were the one- and two-family houses that became the hallmark of the South Bronx rebirth.
 Some people argue that such housing creates a false suburban feel and prevented the neighborhood's population from expanding to the levels it reached in 1970. Others disagree.
 ''In the mid-1980's under Mayor Koch, the city embarked on a very aggressive, and seminal, housing plan to reconstruct communities that a lot of people wrote off,'' said Jerilyn Perine, until recently the city's commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''There was all this vacant land, and there was real concern: could you build a multiple dwelling and would anyone move in?''
 So houses were built, and for the most part the approach worked. The ultimate test may have come in 2002, when the batch of Sebco homes next to St. Athanasius that were built in 1987 became eligible to be resold for the first time. The agency, concerned about who might move in, carefully monitored the prices.
 ''Then we found out how much people were getting,'' said Phil Foglia, Sebco's executive vice president. With houses going for around $250,000 apiece, the agency stopped worrying about the caliber of buyers. People willing to pay a quarter of a million dollars to live in the South Bronx were hardly a problem.

Who's Crazy Now?
 A few blocks from the big vacant lot sits an even older set of well-kept red brick row houses, the sort you might see in Queens. In the third house from the end live Francisco and Mitzia Mendez, part of what might be called the ''Are you crazy?'' generation.
 In the early 1980's, the Mendezes were living in Soundview, just north of Hunts Point. Raising a son and a daughter in a neighborhood where shootouts were common, they were eager to leave, but Mr. Mendez, who drove a cab, and his wife, who managed a Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise, were caught in a financial Catch-22: too rich to qualify for rent subsidies in Manhattan and too poor to make a market-rate down payment on a house in the tranquil north Bronx.
 One day in 1982, they noticed construction on a long-devastated block of Tiffany Street, and asked a workman what was going on. After a $500 application to Sebco and a $3,000 down payment on a $51,000 row house, they were South Bronx homeowners, much to the dismay of people like Ms. Mendez's late father. ''When I told my father I bought a house here,'' Ms. Mendez said, ''he said: 'Are you crazy? That's the worst of the Bronx.'''
 He changed his mind when he saw the couple's spacious three-bedroom house with a basement and a backyard, perfect for barbecuing. Then living in Florida, he began to spend every vacation in the Bronx, and after a year, he announced to his daughter, ''I feel like I'm in Long Island.''
 Residents coped with problems by being organized. When backyards flooded, they banded together and got the builders to address the matter. Because a lot across the street attracted drug dealers and prostitutes who plied their trade in the overgrowth, they got the grass cut and formed a block watch. 
 This was no utopia. Some residents could not keep up with the payments and lost their homes. But the Mendezes, who eventually hope to sell their house and retire to Florida, are content. ''We're sitting on gold,'' Ms. Mendez said, ''our little gold pot.''
 Not every family is happy. Around 1990, the Tiffany Co-ops went up in the lot across from the Mendezes', and Robert Morales, who has lived there with his mother since the buildings were completed, is miserable.
 Mr. Morales, a 49-year-old supervisor at an independent living facility for the elderly, purchased the apartment for $90,000, and in his opinion the money bought many problems -- with the roof, the plumbing, the sewers -- that he and other residents say took years to get fixed. ''I used to live in Manhattan,'' he said. ''I love Manhattan. I regret coming here.''
 Mr. Morales was a recruit from outside the neighborhood. But Hunts Point is also populated by residents who made national headlines a couple of decades back for refusing to leave the neighborhood and successfully pressuring the city to let them take over the buildings that remained.
 Jose Madrigal, a 58-year-old who raised five children in the area, four of whom still live in the Bronx, was one of the original homesteaders of Kelly Street, a few blocks west of the vacant lot where Tiffany Gardens will rise. In 1978 he was part of a group that bought three four-story buildings for a total of $21,000. They did so with the help of the Banana Kelly Housing Development Fund Corporation, which would beget the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a group that would eventually rehab more than 1,200 apartments in the South Bronx.
 He has reaped the benefits. Because the buildings were then gutted, original residents like Mr. Madrigal had a lot of say in the design of their apartments. As his family grew, he worked on a sweat-equity project on nearby Fox Street, and ended up with a six-bedroom apartment there, making him one of the exotic species of middle-class New Yorkers who have a separate bedroom for each of their five children. The construction company he owns recently moved into office space in one of the Kelly Street buildings, and one of Mr. Madrigal's sons, Daniel, is president of its co-op board, and lives in a three-bedroom duplex with an office and a gym.

The Shift to Private Hands
 Throughout the first 15 years of the Hunts Point revival, the city depended mostly on nonprofit groups, determined residents and itself to improve the local housing stock. But in 1994, with the city in charge of more than 44,000 apartments citywide, a disproportionate number of them in Hunts Point, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani established the Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Program, which offered low-interest financing to encourage private developers to take over and improve clusters of buildings. 
 The program eased the city out of the landlord business and introduced a new, for-profit element into the mix of developers. Krislen Management, once solely a management company, had tried to buy buildings in Hunts Point before, but only under the new program could it get the necessary financing. 
 The first cluster the company acquired were four apartment buildings on Longfellow and Lafayette Avenues, toward the more industrial side of Hunts Point. The buildings were in terrible shape, so much of a magnet for crack users and dealers that some residents defended themselves from desperate addicts by chasing them off the premises with baseball bats. Residents also tried to keep the prostitutes from soliciting nearby, sometimes by standing on roofs and throwing bricks at them.
 Over two years, Krislen worked aggressively to remove tenants who were disorderly or failed to pay rent. After many evictions, including those of about 20 tenants in a 77-unit building, it began to gut its holdings, creating new floor plans according to the needs of residents who were staying: large families got big apartments, small families got smaller ones. 
 These days, tenants talk about prompt response by maintenance workers, clean hallways and the annual Christmas party. The buildings got a boost when an industrial building arose on a vacant lot across the street, and when a half-block of brick row houses were built on Longfellow Avenue. Just last month, after years of community pressure, new truck routes were established that local residents say will reduce the nuisance and danger of truck traffic to the Hunts Point Terminal.

Patches of the Old
 Hunts Point is still not a beautiful neighborhood; its industrial feel, and smells, endure. Crime and poverty remain gnawing problems, as do prostitution and drug use, although residents generally agree that both used to be worse. And many people believe that living so close to an industrial area causes health problems, especially asthma.
 Typical of the troubled buildings that remain is 833 Longfellow Avenue. The landlord never agreed to sell the building to the city, leaving it as the only unrenovated building on the block, surrounded now by new brick townhouses and the pleasantly painted Krislen buildings.
 While the Krislen buildings have no outstanding building violations, 833 Longfellow has 10, dating to 1993. Unlike the Krislen buildings, the five-story structure has an outside door that rarely locks, and there is no working intercom. Three current and former residents say the power goes out a few times a year.
 Although some residents had no complaints, others did. When Jose Santa Rosa has to locate his building to visitors, he simply says, ''Just look for the building that's the trashiest,'' he tells people. 
 The landlord, Mildred Tirado, acknowledged that her building is old, but said all 25 units were ''livable'' and repairs are being done little by little. She blames neighborhood youths and drug dealers for breaking the locks, which she said she has fixed repeatedly. As for cockroaches, she said she came herself with the exterminator each month. ''I'm here all the time,'' she said. ''I try to meet the needs of all my tenants.'' Much more remains to be done in Hunts Point, especially as additional land becomes available. Sebco would like to get its hands on a building, on the edge of the big lot, that is now occupied by a Dominican social club that owes considerable back taxes. Some people would like to see the city reclaim the environmentally questionable plots of land known as brownfields that are abundant in the area. Six buildings owned by Banana Kelly are still being rehabilitated.
 But the ''farms,'' as some used to call the neighborhood's overgrown vacant lots, are gone, and with them most of the rats. There is something almost quaint about new arrivals complaining about cockroaches on the same streets where boys threw bricks at street walkers 20 years earlier. 
 In the eyes of many, the new and diverse housing stock is sending a ringing message, that people raised in the community are willing and even eager to stay. The Mendezes, for example, have only one complaint. ''The only terrible thing is, your children never leave,'' Ms. Mendez said. The couple's two grown children, 29 and 26, still live with them. They have tried, unsuccessfully, to persuade their parents to take early retirement to Florida and leave them the house.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Rodriguez with his father, Angel, and his son, Francois, overlooking the neighborhood's last big vacant lot. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
Tiffany Gardens, the housing development that will rise on the site. Groundbreaking is set for next month. (Photo by Meltzer/Mandl Architects)
This one-acre lot has been vacant since the late 70's. (pg. 1)
Francisco and Mitzia Mendez, above, in front of their Tiffany Street house
 the lot where Tiffany Gardens will rise, above, and top left, Daniel Madrigal in front of his Kelly Street co-op. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''BEYOND BLIGHT: Signs of Life''Since the grim days of the 1970's, the Hunts Point section of the Bronx has experienced a gradual comeback. Here are some measures of the change in Community District 2, which includes Hunts Point and the neighboring community of Longwood.Population1980: 35,3781990: 41,2342000: 48,395Median Household Income1980: $14,1051990: 13,9582000: 17,431Percentage of Adults With Bachelors Degree*1980: 2.4%1990: 3.3%2000: 5.8%Adults With at Least A High School Diploma*1980: 28.5%1990: 36.2%2000: 44.5%Residents in Civilian Labor Force Who Are Employed1980: 39.2%1990: 78.4%2000: 76.2%Housing Units That Are Owner-Occupied1980: 6.0%1990: 5.3%2000: 9.7%Housing Units That Are Single-Family Homes1980: 0.8%1990: 3.4%2000: 5.6%* Adults 25 and older(Source by Susan Weber-Stoger at Queens College, based on analysis of Census data)(pg. 8)Chart/Map: ''Hammers and Nails''Three planned residential developments, for 105 units, 193 units and 100 units, are among the signs of a revival in and around Hunts Point.Map of the Bronx highlighting Hunts Point. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); APPROVALS (62%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%) Housing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Southeast Bronx Community Organization

PERSON: Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Hunts Point (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



191 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART/ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2125 words

HEADLINE: Building a Bad Reputation

BYLINE: By JULIE V. IOVINE

 BODY:
IN the architect's vision, the two-story concrete walls of the grand lobby would be breathtaking: not only monumental in scale but with an even gray finish so shiny it would suggest a polished mirror. Instead they were stained from roughly mixed sand. And streaks in the concrete were not going to make the grade, not at the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth. After all, the museum had been designed by Tadao Ando, the Japanese architect whose transcendently simple concrete buildings have elevated a lowly material to the level of highest luxury.
 There had already been problems. In a large gallery, the concrete came out mottled, with a texture alarming to a benefactor whose collections were supposed to hang there. So the offending wall was torn down and rebuilt. And this time the heavy wet slabs were slowly vibrated in place to make the gray sludge settle to the airless density of a flourless chocolate-cake batter. Or as another contractor on the job, Roger Reed of A. Zahner, said, ''The architect wanted it vibrated till it looked like butter.'' 
 It was not the first American project on which Mr. Ando had had a bad experience with sloppy execution. In fact, the architect's reputation for meticulous standards was so daunting that some 50 contractors had refused to bid on the job. In this case, he insists, it wasn't his own perfectionism that was at stake. But clearly the architect's reputation preceded him: the client, he explained in a recent e-mail exchange, ''wished more perfect concrete by Tadao Ando.''
 As more high-profile buildings by foreign architects rise in the United States, and as computers allow architects to strive for engineering, design and construction complexities never before imagined, a gathering rumble can be heard across the profession about the way America builds. The country has garnered a reputation for overlooking gaping joints, sloppy measurements and obvious blemishes, and refusing to deviate from even the most outmoded standardized practices. Having exported its expertise, in the 80's and early 90's, to destinations from Singapore to Dubai, it is now facing stiff competition from Europe and Asia, where the building traditions favor singularity, craftsmanship and durability over speed and cost.
 Most recently at Seattle's new Central Library, Rem Koolhaas, the Dutch architect, set out to debunk what is perceived as an all-too-common attitude in the American construction industry: if it looks hard to build, don't, because it will be too expensive. According to Joshua Ramus -- a partner at Koolhaas's firm, Office of Metropolitan Architecture, who is in charge of American projects -- no American contractor wanted to take on the building's highly unusual structure, which is folded like a gigantic mesh party napkin. ''They said there was no way anyone could do that on that budget,'' Mr. Ramus said of the $165 million library. ''We said: 'Invest in thinking. It may be expensive but it's a lot cheaper than bad building.' ''
 Construction in the United States relies on the quick fix, said Sara Hart, a senior editor at Architectural Record. ''Got a gaping one-inch space between frame and window? Just fill it in with silicone and call it a day. Not perfectly flush or plumb? Who cares!'' is the typical American response, she said. ''While in Germany or Switzerland, they'd rather die than have a gap of more than one-eighth or even one-sixteenth of an inch.'' And though no one is calling Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall slapdash, most American construction aspires to cookie-cutter commercial development rather than high-profile brand-name architecture. Furthermore, in Europe, buildings tend to be smaller and clients accustomed to spending more. One way or another, the conditions have made for considerable bragging rights on the part of European and Asian architects.
 Dana Buntrock, an architecture professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of ''Japanese Architecture as a Collaborative Process'' (Spon Press, 2001), said she once believed that quality was tied to wealth. ''Now I am beginning to wonder if well-built architecture occurs only at a very fragile economic moment,'' she said. ''You need not only affluence, but a group of people who are well paid enough to remain in the crafts and building trades even though they are intelligent, and you need the overall size of an architectural project to remain relatively small.'' While enclaves of craftsmen and small companies cultivating specialty talents, like customized steel work or casting plaster, are growing in the United States, large corporate construction companies still rule the sites, with their supersize-me approach to building.
 As a result, more and more architects are choosing to outsource the construction of American buildings, or at least parts of them, hiring overseas craftsmen to do what they fear domestic hands cannot. After designing the Austrian Cultural Forum on East 52nd Street in Midtown Manhattan, for example, Raimund Abraham, an Austrian-born American architect, was concerned that the masklike facade was too complex for American abilities. So he had the whole thing made in Austria and shipped here. ''There are no good curtain wall manufacturers in America,'' Mr. Abraham said, adding that the project had been held up for a whole year while someone capable of installing the facade could be found.
 Jacques Herzog of Herzog & de Meuron, the Swiss architecture firm, says that its Prada store in Tokyo -- with its wall-to-wall white shag rugs and fishnet-stocking facade -- could never have been built in America. Switzerland and Japan, he said, are ''the only two countries where you can get great craftsmanship. The Swiss and Japanese perfection in construction is unique. Everywhere else you are adapting to possibilities.'' Still, he added: ''I can't complain. It's part of global activity.''
 When building in the United States, Herzog & de Meuron likes to have a Plan B. The kind of stolid cast-concrete walls that give European architecture a look of permanence from Day 1 are out; they just don't come naturally on these shores. So for the New de Young Museum in San Francisco, the architects decided instead on a flashy metallic skin. They called on A. Zahner, a 108-year-old family-run metal company in Kansas City, Mo. The idea was to cover the building in a textured copper skin, embossing it with an image of sunlight filtering through trees. Without any precedent on which to draw, Zahner, a company whose name is in the Rolodex of every European architect with American aspirations, figured out a way to make 3,000 individual panels pixelated with dents of varying depth to produce the desired image. Seurat would have marveled.
 For extra insurance, architects have even been known to construct full-scale mock-ups of sections of their buildings -- using all the same materials -- as an expensive but foolproof way to teach inexperienced workers the needed skills. Renzo Piano, the Italian architect, uses this method on all his current American projects, like the Morgan Library expansion and the planned New York Times headquarters in Manhattan, the new California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco and the expansion of the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, with its sunflower skylights to track northern light. Mr. Ramus says such models can cost anywhere from $15,000 to $750,000, or the same cost per square foot as the building itself. Which is one reason Mr. Piano tends to accept commissions only from clients he considers sophisticated: ''When designing a cultural building or for an institution,'' he said, ''there is more experiment and then, by necessity, everyone is more careful.''
 In the case of the overhaul of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, by the Japanese architect Yoshio Taniguchi, careful hardly begins to describe it.
 As construction got under way last summer, sidewalk critics started snooping around the building site. Seeing the partially installed work, as well as the liberal sprinkling of used coffee cups and odd assorted junk typical of a New York construction site, they started to whisper that Mr. Taniguchi was not going to be able to achieve his usual level of precision.
 The architect himself told a reporter in Japan that the museum was like a daughter to him -- a daughter that he worried about leaving alone on the streets of New York. ''You have to realize that in Japan they hose down the site every night so that the neighbors won't see any dust,'' said Terence Riley, the chief curator of architecture and design at the museum.
 In that climate, it is possible to execute Mr. Taniguchi's exquisitely minimal designs. At the Gallery of Horyuji Treasures in Tokyo, for example, a building without peer in terms of meticulous craftsmanship, no detail is left to chance, from the tatami-style carpeting to the elevated air pressure in the galleries for keeping down dust. Within a park at the Tokyo National Museum, the stone-and-steel pavilion housing a prized collection of imperial artworks appears to float at the edge of a reflecting pool. ''Any imperfection,'' Mr. Riley said, ''would have been an embarrassment to the whole nation.''
 Early in the process, representatives of the Museum of Modern Art's construction managers, Amec Construction Management, went to Japan to study how Mr. Taniguchi works. ''At first there was this big fear that the kind of quality possible in Japan was impossible here,'' said Guy Nordenson, the American engineer who worked on the project. ''Some of us took that as a challenge to achieve the equivalent level of craftsmanship.'' But just to be on the safe side, the architect decided to vary his usual method. Instead of relying on the perfect installation of massive elements, he figured out a much more forgiving way to achieve the same effect. The Modern's construction model involves a substructure, or invisible supporting skeleton, onto which large smooth panels -- a signature of the architect's design -- are clipped. That part is fairly standard. But in addition, Mr. Taniguchi designed another, underlying frame that is entirely adjustable, so that if the panels are attached imperfectly they can still be readjusted. Mr. Taniguchi ''never let down his standards,'' Mr. Riley said. ''He just took a bit of a different approach than he might have in Japan.''
 Santiago Calatrava, the Spanish architect, may be best known for his flying buttresses of cable and steel, but at the Milwaukee Art Museum his design also included intricate concrete work of almost weblike delicacy. ''At the beginning I was told that doing concrete in the U.S. is impossible,'' Mr. Calatrava said from his office in Zurich. ''There's no tradition for form work. I thought, it cannot be true. Look at the old T.W.A. building, it is a most exquisite example. Look at the Salk Institute.'' So he chose to work closely with local carpenters, teaching them exactly how to achieve the results he desired.
 ''The team spirit in the U.S. is exceptional,'' he said. ''Once they are in front of a challenge, they rise to it. It was a pure American effort.'' But to help them get to that point, Mr. Calatrava invited the local construction managers to Europe, where they stayed with him and his family for 10 days of bonding.
 Nadine M. Post, the buildings editor at Engineering News-Record, regards the competition between American and foreign building cultures as beneficial. ''For years everything here was bottom line, but things are changing with so many Europeans and Asians working here,'' Ms. Post said. ''It's a win-win situation. America is getting better architecture. Construction is being held to a higher standard. And foreigners are tapping into a huge market.''
 For architects, there is a constant tightrope walk between getting it done and getting it right. Who cares how beautifully smooth the finish is if the building it's supposed to adorn never gets finished? On a recent tour of the Museum of Modern Art, where workers are racing toward a promised completion on Nov. 20, Mr. Taniguchi discussed quality as a matter of scale, and perhaps of priorities: ''The size of everything in New York is very large, even the plates of food. In Japan, everything is small and delicate; even the sushi is perfectly detailed. But it would be foolish to try and get that level of detail when the scale is so big. It would all be lost. I don't mind so much whether or not it's exactly perfect.''
 As the architect spoke, he gazed out across the vast interior atrium and onto a two-story wall of sheet rock. Morning sun slanted in from the skylights above, causing small buckles in the seams of the wall to cast slight shadows. ''Of course, that is going to be fixed,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture of the Forum for Contemporary Art in St. Louis last Sunday, with the continuation of an article about foreign architects' dissatisfaction with American construction standards, carried an erroneous credit. It was supplied by A. Zahner, not the Renzo Piano Building Workshop.

A picture caption on Aug. 8 with an article about foreign architects' dissatisfaction with American construction standards gave an outdated name for the institution shown. It is the Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis; the name was changed from Forum for Contemporary Art in 2002.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Forum for Contemporary Art in St. Louis. Some foreign architects have been disappointed with American concrete. (Photo by Renzo Piano Building Workshop)(pg. 28)
Renzo Piano relies on mock-ups, such as this one for the High Museum of Art in Atlanta. (Photo by Renzo Piano Building Workshop)(pg. 27)
 When building in America, the Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron likes to have a Plan B, like this textured copper skin for the New de Young Museum in San Francisco. (Photo by A. Zahner)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); LIBRARIES (69%); ENGINEERING (63%) Architecture; Architecture

PERSON: Tadao Ando; Yoshio Taniguchi; Santiago Calatrava; Renzo Piano; Julie V Iovine; Rem Koolhaas

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%); EUROPE (73%); SINGAPORE (52%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



192 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2030 words

HEADLINE: The 37-Year Itch

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
IT was New Year's Eve 1999, and Arletta Ashe and her husband began the evening drinking Champagne at a Madison Avenue bistro, surrounded by balloons and happy people tooting horns. But the evening did not end on such a romantic ''When Harry Met Sally'' note.
 ''I looked at him and raised my glass and said: 'Darling, happy New Year. I want a divorce,' '' Ms. Ashe said last week.
 Her husband smiled and said, sorry, would she repeat her toast? 
 His request may have been prompted by the din of the horns, she said, or the fact that they were both in their 60's and perhaps prone to lapses in hearing.
 Ms. Ashe, now 66, said several of her friends' marriages have also ended recently, at ages that previous generations would have considered better for porch-rocking than for marriage-rocking.
 Divorce is no longer the special province of the 40-something red-Ferrari midlife-crisis set. Among older Americans -- the 55-plus crowd, and those on into their 80's -- divorce appears to be more accepted and more common than ever, according to divorce lawyers, marriage counselors and gerontologists. Those professionals, along with people going through so-called gray divorces, point to many factors, including a rise in longevity among Americans, the fact that the values of the boomer generation and its tradition of self-expression and self-examination have influenced the generation above, and the growth of economic independence among women.
 Robert Stephan Cohen, a matrimonial lawyer in New York, also singled out the good health offered by pharmaceutical cocktails that lower cholesterol and blood pressure, eradicate depression and stimulate libido. (For men, there is Viagra, and for women, though questions have been raised about its safety, hormone replacement therapy.)
 ''A man at 70 is young today,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''Everybody is on Lipitor and blood pressure medication, and suddenly you're not looking at the clock toward the end of your life. You're looking at 17, 18 years of living. And that's a long time. And those years could be especially vibrant if you can have a vibrant sex life. The golden pond is now at 90, not 70.'' (Mr. Cohen, it ought to be noted, is 65.)
 The last two years have offered a spate of 55-plus divorces among high-profile executives. Sumner M. Redstone, now 81, was divorced from his wife, Phyllis, in 2002 after 52 years of marriage. (Last year he married Paula Fortunato, 42.) George Soros, 74, and his wife, Susan, 49, separated this year after 21 years of marriage. Jack Welch, 68, and Jane Beasley Welch, 51, divorced last summer. (He married Suzy Wetlaufer, 44, in April.)
 But it is not exclusively the rich and famous who are untying the knot after decades. Roland Taylor, a retired computer programmer who lives outside Portland, Ore., and is turning 70 tomorrow, was divorced several years ago after 38 years of marriage. ''I am sure that people 50 years ago who wanted to get divorced at the age I was just stuck it out,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''They probably weren't going to live much longer, were they?''
 The percentage of Americans 65 and older who were divorced or separated rose to 10 percent in 2001 from 7 percent in 1999, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. The data suggest a rise in the number of divorces among older people, though experts are wary of drawing such a conclusion because the statistics generally do not include information about age at the time of the breakup. The men and women in the databank may have divorced while younger and remained unmarried into their older years.
 But anecdotal evidence suggests a growing trend. Several matrimonial lawyers in New York reported more clients 55 and older. (One, Peter Bienstock, called his office ''a geriatric unit.'') Deborah E. Lans, a partner in Cohen Lans, said she had noticed a rise in the last five years.
 ''It's a heavy concentration now, definitely different from the mix one might have seen 10 or 15 years ago,'' Ms. Lans said. Ten years ago, clients were much more solidly in their 40's. Now they seem to have slid down on either side of the midlife bell curve: she sees more younger clients who want to cut their losses early, and older clients who realize that they have more life ahead of them than their parents' generation did.
 The number of couples in New York City divorcing after 30 to 34 years of marriage has been inching up, according to the most recent Health Department figures. In 2000, 574 couples married that length of time were granted divorces, up from 485 couples in 1998. For couples married 20 to 24 years, the number rose to 1,458 in 2000, from 1,310 in 1998.
 Of her older divorce clients, Ms. Lans said, ''These are people who at 65 decide they have 25 years left, and they're not going to, quote, settle.''
 Such was the case with Ms. Ashe. Her husband, Edward A. Fox, was a busy executive who served on several corporate and philanthropic boards. Their marriage, which lasted 10 years, was the second for both Ms. Ashe and Mr. Fox.
 ''He was very busy, and I was getting bored,'' she said. Slowly, she began to realize that they were of different temperaments. He was a social animal who loved the pace of New York. She preferred a quieter life. They saw a marriage counselor. Therapy didn't help. One night at the ballet, she felt pains in her chest. Later, she discovered that one artery was almost completely blocked.
 ''I went into a deep depression,'' Ms. Ashe said. ''I realized I was not only sick, but I was heartsick in every sense of the word.''
 It was into this precarious marital situation -- one of illness, conflicts in schedules, feelings of being neglected -- that an old friend of Ms. Ashe's arrived. If her marriage was a tinderbox, he was the match. Her marriage vows became a blurry memory. And one day, something clicked.
 ''I was in that marriage for life at the beginning,'' Ms. Ashe said. ''But suddenly, I realized, 'I'm going to go for everything I don't have in my marriage.' I wanted it all.''
 Mr. Fox declined to discuss the details of his marriage and divorce.
 Those who have divorced later in life, whether they are in a first marriage or a subsequent one, cite many of the same triggers: infidelity, boredom, a drifting apart after children have left home. Sometimes it's a combination, said Dr. William Doherty, a marriage counselor and the director of the Marriage and Family Therapy Program at the University of Minnesota. Dr. Doherty's older patients tend to be successful men in their 60's who have decided to discover themselves in ways no different than slightly younger men. ''They say, 'Life is more than what I have been living,' and they get involved with a younger woman,'' Dr. Doherty said. ''And they don't see the other woman as the cause for the breakup. No one ever does. But they are determined to live the balance of their lives in a different way.''
 Part of the reason he is seeing more older patients, Dr. Doherty said, is that the culture of self-actualization has spread upward to older people. ''They take Scandinavian cooking classes,'' he said. ''They try yoga. They try therapy to try to understand themselves better. And they are close enough to the boomers to divorce for what I call the 'soft' reasons: 'not happy,' 'not fulfilled,' 'we don't communicate.' ''
 Ms. Lans said that among her clients, most often it is the women who have instigated divorce proceedings. That echoes a recent AARP survey that found that among men and women 40 to 80, divorce was usually initiated by the wife.
 ''You still get a few of those men who say, 'I want a new life and a younger woman,' but actually in the older situations I find it is often the women who say, 'I want out,' '' Ms. Lans said. Her clients are, however, well-off New Yorkers, who enjoy a particular set of privileged circumstances. The women can afford to leave, or their husbands can afford a settlement that gives them a new financial life, Ms. Lans said, which is ''absolutely one of the universals'' in divorces in which an older woman is leaving her husband.
 William Zabel, who represented Jane Beasley Welch in her 2003 divorce from Jack Welch, said his older clients include both men and women.
 ''The men have a real sexuality issue,'' he said. ''They want to assert themselves with a younger woman.'' And the women, he said, have just thrown up their hands. He represented a woman last year who had been married for 30 years, a lawyer with a thriving practice. The children were grown. She had her own financial resources. And the law in New York is now more favorable for long-married women. (Before 1980, when the state's equitable-distribution law was enacted, women rarely got half the marital assets at divorce.)
 ''The women don't do it for sexual reasons,'' Mr. Zabel said. ''They're doing it for dignity, for their persona. It's kind of admirable.''
 A divorce later in life has its own problems and heartbreaks. Even though children are grown, they may feel adrift without the security of a parental household.
 ''Even adult children need a home to go to,'' Dr. Doherty said.
 Often, more than one generation or branch of a family is affected. Mr. Bienstock, the lawyer with the so-called geriatric unit, said mixed families -- a husband and a wife with children from previous marriages -- give rise to much more passionate financial tensions during divorce proceedings. ''It's the Hatfields and the McCoys lining up for the pot of gold,'' he said. ''It's sad.''
 Sadder still are the cases of older women whose husbands leave them without enough financial resources. These are the women stricken with such rage and humiliation that although they want their opinions heard, they do not want their names in print. Some seek help from the Equality in Marriage Institute, a research center in New York founded by Lorna J. Wendt, who waged a public divorce battle in the late 1990's with Gary C. Wendt that became a test case on the value of stay-at-home spouses.
 One New York woman, 66, said last week that her marriage of 33 years evaporated two years ago after her husband, a businessman who traveled often to Europe, began having an affair with a woman in England. 
 He told his wife that he had an infant son with the other woman. He kept his assets in Europe. She said she does not have enough to get by. But the sharpest pains are emotional, not financial. ''I still get such pangs, out of the blue,'' she said. ''I feel absolutely abandoned. The deception was so thorough on every level. I'm past 'What did I do wrong?' But I'm not much better.''
 Pockets of agitators are working to save long-term marriages. David and Claudia Arp, who have been married for 41 years, have written several self-help books addressing issues that arise in lengthy marriages: ''The Second Half of Marriage'' (1996, Zondervan), ''Fighting for Your Empty Nest Marriage'' (2000, Jossey-Bass) and ''10 Great Dates for Empty Nesters'' (2004, Zondervan). They lead seminars around the country to help couples cope with the problems that come with the onset of matrimonial sunset.
 ''It's not an easy time,'' Mrs. Arp said. ''One day you wake up, you're facing retirement or retired, the kids are grown up and there's probably this whole hormonal thing going on. Even couples who have good relationships can go through some bumps.''
 ''To us, it is just so sad to see a couple married for 30 years throw everything away,'' she said. ''It's so much harder to rebuild your life, the older you are.''
 Mr. Taylor, the retired computer programmer in Oregon, is now married to the former Dannah MacCombe, whose own marriage dissolved after 31 years. (They met through eHarmony.com.) Mrs. Taylor said that family members still feel the sting of the couple's divorces.
 ''Roland's children are in their 40's, and my children are in their 30's, and my kids still ask me, 'Why didn't you try to keep the marriage together?' '' Mrs. Taylor said. The grandchildren also have expressed concern. ''Two of them asked me why I wasn't married to Grandpa Bill anymore,'' Mrs. Taylor said. ''It's complicated.''
 The Taylors celebrated their second anniversary in June.
 ''I think we're in it for the long haul,'' Mr. Taylor said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: GRAY, NOT BLUE -- Arletta Ashe, 66, above, asked her husband of 10 years for a divorce at a New Year's party in 1999. Right, Roland and Dannah Taylor, whose previous marriages lasted a combined total of 69 years. (Photo by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)
(Photo by Julie Keefe for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); AGING (90%); FAMILY LAW (89%); COUPLE COUNSELING (78%); MENOPAUSE (74%); WOMEN (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); GERONTOLOGY (70%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (63%); HYPERTENSION (63%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (63%); CHOLESTEROL (50%) Divorce, Separations and Annulments; Aged; Age, Chronological

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (50%); GEORGE SOROS (50%) Alex Kuczynski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



193 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Economic Carrots: The Price of Luring Business

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
IN August 1996, Wally Amos's cookie company was bankrupt. Mr. Amos had long before lost control of Famous Amos, the first cookie company he had formed in 1975, and he was even barred from using his name and likeness on his baked goods. After four years of trying to do business as the Uncle Noname Cookie Company, he had meager sales and had run up a million dollars in debt.
 About that time, Lou Avignone, a bakery distributor in Islip, called Mr. Amos during his appearance on a radio talk show, and that began a series of discussions that culminated in Mr. Avignone's buying Uncle Noname out of bankruptcy court. 
 With Mr. Avignone handling operations, the company changed its name to Uncle Wally's and reshuffled its product line -- cookies were out, muffins in. With help from the Town of Brookhaven's Industrial Development Agency, the company began a rebound. Uncle Wally's now has sales of about $30 million a year, and its work force has grown sixfold, to 130. 
 Jim Tullo, then an assistant director of the agency and now a Brookhaven councilman, encouraged Mr. Avignone to buy 6.4 acres in Shirley adjoining one of the town's economic development zones. He did, and the town promptly redrew the zone to include Mr. Avignone's property. With that stroke, Uncle Wally's became eligible for a package of state and town benefits that so far have reached nearly $90,000. The town also financed construction of the company's bakery in 1999 with a $3 million tax-exempt bond.
 ''Without their help,'' Mr. Avignone said, ''we would not have grown to our present size.''
 Mr. Avignone describes the town as being business-friendly, and he ticks off a list of helpful officials: Mr. Tullo; Anthony J. Aloisio, the director of the Industrial Development Agency; and John Jay LaValle, the town supervisor. 
 ''They walked us through the whole process, the Planning Board, the Department of Health, the fire marshals, everything,'' Mr. Avignone said. ''They saw to it we were dealing with the right people. If something was sitting on someone's desk, they saw to it that it was processed.'' 
 Brookhaven touts the success of companies like Uncle Wally's as an important tool in improving its economy by recruiting successful companies to its Empire Zone program, which began operation 10 years ago this month. The town has helped about 30 companies move into the patchwork of industrial sites scattered throughout the town near areas of economic blight. 
 The pace has accelerated in the last year. From June 2003 to last June, Mr. Aloisio and his staff signed contracts with 18 companies, all but three of them from other towns.
 In its first 10 years, the Empire Zone has created a net gain of some 75 jobs and has offered companies a total of about $775,000 in incentives, Mr. Aloisio estimated.
 ''In my view, evaluating the effectiveness of the Empire Zone program should not be simply based upon the number of new jobs created, relative to the tax exemptions received,'' he said. ''The analysis should also incorporate the number of jobs retained, the secondary or multiplier effect of the jobs created or retained on the overall economy, construction jobs and capital investment.''
 To promote its programs, the development agency has run a radio campaign called ''Make It Big in Brookhaven'' touting its ability to lower costs for companies willing to move to Brookhaven or, in cases like Mr. Avignone's, simply to stay there.
 One company migrating to Brookhaven is Interpharm Holdings, currently in Smithtown in the Hauppauge Industrial Park. Interpharm, a publicly traded maker and distributor of generic drugs, signed a $9.25 million deal in November to buy a 92,000-square-foot building in Yaphank from Arrow Electronics. Brookhaven helped put the deal together, and the site is currently being renovated for Interpharm. 
 The company will maintain its office in Smithtown but will move its administration and research and development operations to the new building, said Dr. Maganlal Sutaria, Interpharm's chairman and chief executive. Part of the property's appeal, he said, is the availability of over 500,000 square feet for future construction.
 While companies are able to shave their operating costs by relocating to economic development zones, the effectiveness of the programs has been called into question, most recently late last year by Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller. In audits of 11 Empire Zones throughout the state, Mr. Hevesi found that 7 out of 10 had not created the number of jobs they had promised. Further, Mr. Hevesi's report noted that the Empire Zone program, sponsored by the governor's office but administered by municipalities, has no mechanism for penalizing companies that fail to produce the promised jobs.
 In addition to the one in Brookhaven, Long Island has three other Empire Zones, in Riverhead, Islip and Babylon.
 The Babylon program, begun in March in Wyandanch, has not yet recruited any companies. ''We view the Empire Zone as one tool that can aid in revitalization,'' said Steven Bellone, Babylon's town supervisor. 
 Although Mr. Hevesi's audit shows the downside of using incentives to lure companies and of touting promised jobs as if they were actual, economic development officials say that incentives are necessary to keep growing companies.
 ''It's a real battle to keep them in New York State,'' Mr. Aloisio said. ''These companies are being recruited by a number of states.''
 But Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, questioned whether such incentives were necessary. 
 ''I am not supportive of the governments competing,'' Dr. Koppelman said. ''The real competition should not be between Islip and Babylon, but between a unified Long Island and places like Georgia, Texas and North Carolina. There is no net gain if you take from one and give to another.''
 ''If no one in the State of New York exercised tax relief or created free trade zones or any of the other panoply of mechanisms,'' he added, ''everyone would be playing by the same rules, and the incentives would not be necessary. But if someone is doing it, everyone is doing it.''
 Still, incentives are not the whole story behind Brookhaven's rise as a favored corporate destination. ''Brookhaven is clearly in the favorable path for development,'' Dr. Koppelman said. ''It's location, location, location. Brookhaven still has the vacant, affordable commercial space that's already gone entirely from Nassau County, and gone almost entirely'' from western Suffolk.


GRAPHIC: Photos: With help from the Town of Brookhaven's Industrial Development Agency, Uncle Wally's baking company moved to Shirley, above. The agency arranged for Dr. Maganlal Sutaria and Interpharm Holdings to buy this building in Yaphank, below. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BAKERIES (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); TAX LAW (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) Tax Exemptions; Music; Parks and Other Recreation Areas

ORGANIZATION: Long Island Regional Planning Board; New York Philharmonic

PERSON: Warren Strugatch; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi; Lee E (Dr) Koppelman; Brian Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



194 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Black Rock, Conn.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: A Community With Spirit, and an Edge

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
A HYBRID of urban and suburban cultures, the Black Rock section of Bridgeport, Conn., is the most affluent area of the city, but determinedly less homogeneous than other Fairfield County shoreline communities. 
 The tone is set along busy Fairfield Avenue -- Black Rock's Main Street -- where, mixed among the usual convenience stores, hair salons and package stores, are antiques shops, Irish pubs, a Mexican bakery, a fine arts gallery, an alternative music venue and an Indian food market. The liveliness is indicative of a community known as much for its independent spirit as for its history as a shipbuilding center and trade port. 
 ''The Black Rock attitude is very tolerant of and interested in diversity,'' said Gail Robinson, a resident and community activist for more than 20 years. ''I try to get my neighbors together every two years for a big potluck in my yard so new neighbors can get to know each other. Usually, 120 to 140 people show up. A large part of our social life is each other.'' 
 Susan Breen, a painter, and her husband, David Ryan, a writer and musician, are among a growing number of artists drawn to Black Rock's dramatic harbor views and relatively affordable home prices. Their move from New York City didn't come easy -- fearful of suburban isolation, the couple gave up their rental with some trepidation. A year later, they have no regrets: Black Rock provides just enough edginess to be interesting.
 ''We've met people of all different ages, economic views, world views -- people we probably wouldn't have made the choice to spend time with in the city, but can't help but get to know here because everyone's so open,'' Ms. Breen said. ''People want to connect.''
 She and Mr. Ryan bought a 200-year-old house two blocks from the waterfront for $358,000. Ms. Breen paints in her glassed-in sun porch, a temporary work space until the garage can be converted into her ''dream studio.'' Neighbors tipped them off to the unexpected bonus in their backyard: The previous owner's passion for organic gardening left them with soil so rich their first attempt at a garden yielded tomatoes the size of small cantaloupes. 
 Over the years, Black Rockers have pulled together on a number of community improvement projects, from preserving the Black Rock Harbor lighthouse on Fayerweather Island to commissioning local artists to recast the trash cans along Fairfield Avenue as modern sculpture. The Black Rock Yacht Club is the setting for many a community fund-raiser. The local identity is so strong that ''Black Rockers distinguish themselves as being from Black Rock, not Bridgeport,'' said Maryann Regal, a sales associate with William Raveis Real Estate. 
 Ms. Regal speaks from experience -- she gave up Fairfield for Black Rock eight years ago. She bought a 2,200-square-foot Cape for $155,000, and customized it with a porch and new kitchen. 
 The majority of homes lining the streets running perpendicular to the shoreline are priced below $500,000. Among a dozen or so Black Rock properties listed for sale earlier this month, the least expensive home, at $309,900, was a three-bedroom, 60's-era Cape with water views. 
 Even properties within walking distance of the peninsula's unobstructed waterfront can sell for a third less than comparable properties in more southerly coastal towns.
 Higher-priced properties are located at the tip of the Black Rock peninsula in the St. Mary's neighborhood. The name is short for St. Mary's by the Sea, a city-owned park consisting of a winding, shoreline walkway overlooking Black Rock Harbor and a small beach. 
 A resort community for the wealthy in the 1800's, St. Mary's is still favored by the Bridgeport elite: among the current residents are Representative Christopher Shays and Paul Ganim, a probate judge and brother of Joseph P. Ganim, the former mayor convicted last year on corruption charges. The $1,498,500 sale of a 10-room colonial on the waterfront earlier this year set a new high for the neighborhood. 
 Even so, Black Rock prices are still significantly lower than Fairfield's, partly because of the city's struggling school system. Last summer, the Connecticut State Department of Education identified 21 of the Bridgeport's 32 elementary and middle schools, and two of its three high schools as not making adequate progress toward reading and mathematics goals established by the federal No Child Left Behind Act. 
 Black Rock School was among the exceptions. The elementary school serves roughly 370 students and collaborates with Greens Farms Academy, in Westport, and other suburban schools to provide its largely minority population with tutoring assistance and enrichment activities. 
 Families buying in Black Rock ''are usually fully aware that the schools here are not as highly rated as surrounding towns, but are generally committed to private schools no matter where they live,'' Ms. Regal said. One local alternative is Saint Ann School, which serves 200 students in pre-kindergarten though eighth grade. Annual tuition is $3,360.
 The Black Rock Arts Center, a fledgling organization seeking to promote multicultural awareness, has helped enrich the arts curriculum at both local elementary schools by providing instruction in Afro-Caribbean drumming, creative painting, and Suzuki violin training. Housed in the former Black Rock Bank and Trust building at the intersection of Fairfield Avenue and Brewster Street, the nonprofit center is trying to raise about $1.5 million to transform the building's three floors into performance spaces, dance studios and an art gallery. A recent fund-raiser featured local artists preparing barbecue from their native countries.
 ''We're sort of at the crossroads of the different communities -- recent immigrants from Mexico and Jamaica on one side of Brewster Street, the Black Rock suburb on the other -- and our mission is to bring them together,'' said Joseph Celli, the center's founder and the executive director of the International Performing Arts, which sponsors a free multicultural summer concert series at venues throughout Bridgeport. ''This is cheap economic development for the city,'' he said. ''As it is, Fairfield Avenue is naturally emerging as an arts and entertainment district.'' 
 Among the district's pioneers is Rich Franzino, owner of the Acoustic Cafe, which features live folk, rock and bluegrass, as well as open-mike nights and Latin American jam sessions with local musicians. Mr. Franzino originally planned to open his club in Fairfield, but Black Rock's cheaper rents lured him across the border. In the five years since, the avenue has become safer and more populated, he said.
 ''We're going in the direction of a SoNo, if you will,'' Mr. Franzino said, referring to South Norwalk's funky entertainment district. ''But they have more turnover there because the rents are so expensive. This is more of a neighborhood, and people tend to feel like: 'That's my Acoustic Cafe. I go to that place.' '' 
 The strip's concentration of bars and homegrown restaurants, including Taco Loco, Blackrock Castle and Picasso's, is also a big draw for local college students and suburbanites. Legendary among vegetarians is The Bloodroot restaurant and feminist bookstore a short detour off the avenue on Ferris Street. Business owners are cautiously optimistic that the new train station and office park about to break ground just over the Fairfield line will make the avenue more of a destination.
 Black Rock's growing appeal is both satisfying and frustrating to longtime residents like Ms. Robinson. As the founder of the St. Mary's crime watch, Ms. Robinson was instrumental in driving out the drug dealers and prostitutes who once plied their trade along the seawall. She now heads a conservation organization battling Judge Ganim's plan to extend a dock into the Ash Creek estuary. 
 But rising property values, combined with the city's relatively high property taxes, $38.99 for every $1,000 of assessed value, have made it difficult for Ms. Robinson to remain in the neighborhood. She's putting her house on the market. 
 ''My life is embedded in this community,'' she said. ''Basically, ''I've done myself in.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE WATERFRONT -- A growing number of artists are being drawn to Black Rock, Conn., by the harbor views and by home prices that can be more affordable than in other shore towns.
On the Market: HILLTOP ROAD -- This house at 225 Hilltop Road in St. Mary's has five bedrooms and three-and-a-half baths. $619,000. Information: (203) 339-7492.
BREWSTER STREET -- This house, at 294 Brewster Street, has four bedrooms and one-and-a-half baths. $469,000. Information: (203) 221-4471.
BREWSTER STREET -- This house, at 355 Brewster Street, has three bedrooms and two-and-a-half baths. $349,900. Information: (203) 372-9800. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 8,354AREA: 0.89 square milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $43,593.34MEDIAN PRICE OF ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $417,000TAX ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $9,300MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $318,000MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $170,000MEDIAN PRICE OF CONDOMINIUM: $114,000SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $10,150DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 58 milesCOMMUTING TIME TO MIDTOWN: 10 minutes to Fairfield station, 70 minutes on Metro-North's New Haven line
 $13.50 one-way, $292 monthlyVARIETIES OF CUISINE ON A ONE-MILE STRETCH OF FAIRFIELD AVENUE: 8Map of Connecticut highlighting Black Rock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); GARDENING (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CONVENIENCE STORES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); RETAILERS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (71%); MUSIC (71%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (71%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); SHIPBUILDING (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (66%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Lisa Prevost

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) Bridgeport (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



195 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: The Minneapolis Riverfront Is Thriving Once Again

BYLINE: By KEVIN MALER

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
ROD AND SUSAN BOREN raised their two children in Kenwood, a posh neighborhood of large, century-old homes near the popular Lake of the Isles. 
 But with their son, Jay, away at college and their daughter, Celia, then 17, soon to follow, the Borens realized they had far too much space. ''There were places in our house where we literally wouldn't go for months,'' said Mr. Boren, a former managing director at a banking-trust firm. Mrs. Boren is a partner in the executive search firm Spencer Stuart. 
 Rather than moving to one of the new condominiums in the outer ring of the Twin Cities they bought a 3,200-square-foot loft in a renovated warehouse along the Mississippi River in downtown Minneapolis.
 In doing so, they joined thousands of others -- mostly well-heeled empty nesters and younger professionals -- who are driving a loft boom here. Actually, frenzy might be a better word to describe the interest. The Borens, in fact, felt they couldn't wait for their daughter to finish high school before making the move two years ago.
 When they bought in late 2002, only a few original buildings remained in Minneapolis's old milling district with unobstructed views of the river. The Borens bought two units in a building once owned by the Washburn Crosby Company, the predecessor of General Mills. Their merged unit now has views both of the river and downtown.
 Ann Calvert, the senior project coordinator for Minneapolis's community planning and economic development department, has been working to redevelop the riverfront for more than 25 years. The city began to push for riverfront housing in the 1970's, Ms. Calvert said. ''It took a while to get the snowball going,'' she said.
 Some of the early residential developments on the city-side of the river resembled lavish town houses. They've all succeeded, according to Ms. Calvert, though it took some eight years, starting in 1995, to build and sell the high-end units in one of the more prominent developments.
 Meanwhile, artists began to work -- and live -- in some of the converted industrial buildings several blocks from the river. But the milling district, which is far closer to the office towers in Minneapolis, remained mostly abandoned.
 Many point to the renovation of the old North Star Blanket Factory building as a turning point because it served as a signal to developers that there was tremendous demand for loft-style housing. Peggy Lucas, a partner with Brighton Development, looked at renovating the building at the urging of Sharon Sayles Belton, who served as mayor from 1994 to 2001. Renovation of the building, vacant for some 50 years, was finished in 1999. 
 The units, originally priced at $140,000 to $750,000, sold quickly. Ms. Lucas figures that most have since doubled in value.
 Among those who bought a unit was Bruce Abrahamson, who retired in 1995 from Hammel, Green and Abrahamson, a local architecture firm. He picked out his space before the renovation had started. 
 ''There had been squatters in there,'' Mr. Abrahamson said. ''There was debris in the corners. The windows were broken or gone. There wasn't much right about it, but the views were good.'' 
 He and his wife, Vicki, sold their three-level, 4,000-square-foot home near Minneapolis's Lake Harriet and, in the spring of 2000, moved into the 2,000-square-foot loft. The loft makes it easier for the couple, now empty nesters, to travel and spend time at their vacation homes.
 In the past two years, developers have begun to move farther from the river. Some of the projects are conversions of existing buildings, while others are new construction designed to have a loft feel -- high ceilings, open interior spaces and high windows. Some buyers appreciate the features of the new units, while others disdainfully maintain that a true loft is, by definition, a renovated industrial building.
 Many observers say that the boom has been driven in large part by demographics: baby boomers who raised children in the suburbs are moving to the city now that their children have moved out.
 Other factors may also have played a role. Restaurants, in walking distance, were already plentiful. The Guthrie Theater is in the process of relocating from its original home in Kenwood to a $125 million, state-of-the-art building along the river, while another nationally known theater, Theatre de la Jeune Lune, has been in the area for many years. The Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board, meanwhile, has been sprucing up public land along the riverfront.
 But while wealthy empty nesters are a driving force behind the popularity of lofts, buyers also include young and middle-age professionals, according to Jim Stanton, the president of Shamrock Companies, which has completed several downtown projects, with prices ranging from $150,000 to $1 million. The one constant, he said, is that very few have young children. 
 Suesan Lea Pace, 57, who is single and without children, bought a 2,000-square-foot loft in a new-construction building that, with upgrades, cost about $437,000. A lawyer who works at a mid-sized downtown firm, she likes the convenience of her location.
 At least four people from Ms. Pace's law firm, Halleland Lewis Nilan Sipkins & Johnson, live or plan to move downtown. Bradley J. Betlach, one of those lawyers, is in the process of closing on a two-bedroom unit on the top floor of a former book repository that includes a private rooftop deck. The corner unit will cost about $508,000.
 His new building, several blocks from the riverfront, is in an area that still has working warehouses -- an attraction for Mr. Betlach, 40, and his partner Peter Carlson, 31. ''When you look out from our deck, you feel like it's TriBeCa,'' he said.
 Ms. Lucas is continuing to develop residential property near the riverfront -- though the latest project will be new construction. The project, Park Avenue West, will include lofts, but she says that to differentiate it from others she's looking for a ''new paradigm.'' 
 And what, exactly, does the new paradigm look like? 
 Brownstones.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOFTY HOME -- Susan and Rod Boren, above, in their loft. The 3,200-square-foot unit was once part of a warehouse. It looks out over the Mississippi. (Photographs by Ingrid Young for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (86%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAKES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MAYORS (67%); HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (64%); EMPTY NESTERS (53%) Housing

COMPANY: CROSBY CO INC (67%); GENERAL MILLS INC (54%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (54%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (54%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (54%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (54%)

PERSON: kevin maler

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Minneapolis (Minn); Mississippi River

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



196 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1931 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Summers When Kids Were Kids

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Kevin Cahillane and Jane Gordon contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
THERE was a time, at least in the misty land of memory, when there was a clear line of demarcation between the last day of school and the first day of summer vacation. Walking out of the schoolhouse door, clutching the raggedy contents of your desk, a child felt that moment of liberation from the pressures -- both social and academic -- of school as keenly as a convict released from jail.
 Those were the days, as myth would have it, when mothers were more available, streets were safe enough for children to roam and the suburbs were still new, planted with modest houses and spindly trees. Those were the days when children did not have to do, they could just be. And summer was the time for sleeping late, digging in the dirt, roaming the neighborhood on a bike, playing kick the can and war.
 But for a generation of youths, the line between the end of school and the beginning of summer became steadily fuzzier. Summer turned into a continuation of the rest of the year, a season of expensive sleep-away camps, sweaty sports camps, academic enrichment and globe-trotting adventures. Only the uncool, the disorganized and families with no other options kept their children at home, dependent on their own wit and imagination to keep busy. 
 Yet across the suburbs, some people say that a counter-trend is developing, a movement to go back to the unabashedly ordinary, low-pressure summers that parents remember from their own childhoods, summers of catching fireflies, getting to know cousins and visiting grandparents. 
 In New Jersey, one family is rediscovering the public library, and in Westchester, a group of boys meet at the schoolyard most afternoons to play a lazy game of stickball.
 In Connecticut, a mother who gave up her job as a litigator to spend more time with her children has found that her children were burned out by the effort to make summer stimulating instead of relaxing, and would rather just stay home.
 On Long Island, the Hempstead town supervisor has seen a rise in the number of children enrolling in free or low-cost summer recreation programs. To some degree, parents say, they are rebelling against the high cost of summer camps.
 But a more subtle cultural change may be in the air, a conviction that the competition to turn summer into an extension of the school year, an endless race to get into Harvard, has gotten out of hand. People are tired, they say, of summertime one-upmanship. They are exhausted by the effort to find an activity that will look good on a college application. And they are no longer convinced that getting into the right summer camp is important to their children's future.
 Emeline and Dave Thornell keep their two children, Sydney, 9, and Aidan, 5, engaged over the summer by simply opening the front door. Their middle-class street in Summit -- a bedroom community for the money market crowd -- had 43 school-age children the last time someone thought to count.
 While Mr. Thornell, a chemist in New York City and Mrs. Thornell, a cardiac nurse at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, both work full time, they have stay-at-home children thanks to flexible work schedules and a reliable baby sitter. And Mrs. Thornell, for one, is grateful for the comfort of neighbors.
 ''It's like it was when we were growing up,'' she said. ''Everyone on the block just goes outside and plays and people talk to each other on the stoops. These days, everything has to be structured, and there's this camp and that camp. I mean, did you ever go on a play date?'' she asks.

It Takes a Village
 While this village approach to child raising is nothing new, Mr. Thornell has added homework to his children's summer itineraries. Every afternoon, Sydney and Aidan retire to their rooms to read books, write letters, draw pictures and otherwise engage their creative and intellectual sensibilities during the otherwise dormant days of July.
 While Sydney is passionate about dance and Aidan has more natural athletic talent than you can shake a lacrosse stick at, the highlight of the summer has been playing with the two new next-door neighbors.
 ''I wait at the window for them to come outside,'' Sydney said. When they do, the four kids go from house to house, running through sprinklers, watching Tom & Jerry videos and getting into their share of scrapes and bruises.
 In August, the Thornells will take their show on the road to Mr. Thornell's parents' home in Massachusetts, or as Mrs. Thornell affectionately calls it, ''Camp Nana and Papa.''
 Judy Rintoul, the former litigator, from the central Connecticut town of Portland, who is raising two children, Max, 10, and Emily, 12, had her own take on this.

'Busy Suburban Summer'
 ''We did do a lot of the sort of busy suburban summer life at one time,'' Ms. Rintoul said. ''The stress of running around and the competitiveness of being in those programs was just not what we were looking for, and we found that being more selective about what we took them to in the summer ended up being more fun and more relaxing. We just felt that it built our family in new ways. It gives us more time to do things with each other, to learn about each other, to learn about ourselves.''
 The Rintoul family's retreat into summer domesticity began with Ms. Rintoul's retirement four years ago from her job as an employment litigator. During a trial, she found that she could be working 15 hours a day. She would be sending her children to bed at 7 p.m., just so she could get them out of the way while she went back to work.
 Summer camps became a form of day care. ''I had to find something for them to do,'' she said, while she and her husband, David, also a lawyer, were at work. Her children went to art camps, sports camps and writing camps, and Ms. Rintoul had to start enrolling them in these camps as early as January.
 ''It was exhausting,'' she said. ''They had back-to-back camps -- some sleep-away, some day camps, some half-day camps. All the weeks and hours and drop-off and pickup times had to match.''
 Three years ago, she started home-schooling her children. This year, it seemed a natural extension of home-schooling to keep them home for the summer. Her children, Ms. Rintoul said, have never been bored.
 They putter around the garden, read, play on the computer and have friends over. They go to the theater. The only structured activity is music lessons.
 ''This is the kind of time when kids think about who they are and how things work,'' she said, ''the time when they generate questions about the world.''
 Ms. Rintoul concedes that as her children reach high school age, they might feel more pressure to find summer activities that they can show off on a college application. But she is not sure she'll give in.
 ''It's not enough to be smart, it's not enough to be wealthy, it's not enough to be good-looking anymore,'' she said. ''Even those three things together are not enough anymore. All these people putting their children's noses to the grindstone are still not guaranteed that at the end of that they're going to have a successful, well-adjusted, happy adult. Maybe my children won't be the most competitive people, but they'll have things to offer, and they'll be unique things.''
 Bob and Leosinda Lebron have decided that summer camp is an unnecessary luxury. Their older boys, Alex, 15, Kevin, 10, are able to stay at home in Jackson and go wherever the day takes them.
 Mr. Lebron jostles the boys awake before leaving for his 75-minute journey up the parkway to his advertising job in Morristown. Mrs. Lebron drops off the baby, Sophie, 2, at a baby sitter's house in town before driving to her job as a programmer at Merril Lynch in Hopewell. 
 The boys then come downstairs and crash for a few more hours on the couch, their circadian rhythms thrown out of whack by the horror movies they stay up late watching. 
 When they do rise, they engage in the most time-honored of summer traditions. ''We mostly watch TV. and go outside,'' Kevin said. 
 Outside amounts to collecting box turtles, playing hockey and -- despite being straight-A students -- throwing a stuffed teddy bear at a live hornets nest. Occasionally, their father will ask them to ''clean something'' -- with mixed results. While the summer days pass languorously enough for the boys, afternoons and evenings are often devoted to shuttling back and forth to hockey practices and games all over South Jersey. Nobody seems to miss summer camp.

'Safer at Home'
 ''I spend enough money on hockey that I couldn't afford it even if I wanted to,'' Mr. Lebron said. ''Plus, I just think they're safer at home. Particularly when you have a retired police officer next door.''
 The summer has also featured a two-week visit by Mrs. Lebron's sister and her family from Colombia with the requisite field trips to the beach and even Yankee Stadium. 
 Should parents send their children away for the summer? That depends on what those children have been doing for the rest of the year, said Ester S. Buchholz, a professor of applied psychology at New York University, and the author of ''The Call of Solitude: Alonetime in a World of Attachment'' (Simon and Schuster, 1997).
 Some children do need a break, because their lives have been too structured, too pressured, Dr. Buchholz said. 
 ''Our culture these days is very into not wasting a moment's time,'' she said. ''We must teach our children everything under the sun starting from Day 1. But if our thoughts are always monitored and programmed by others, then how do we build our own judgment, our own sense of who we are and our personal integrity?''
 There is such a thing, she said, as too much stimulation. And constant activity can become a way of avoiding independent thinking. If the television or the camp counselor is always telling children what to do next, there is no need for them to be creative.
 ''If you look at the lives of the people who have been the most productive, if you look at the Einstein or the Mozart, they had a lot of time, a lot of space and quiet,'' Dr. Buchholz said. ''It's sort of funny that we want to emulate them, but we're actually not.''
 On the other hand, she said, the overstructured life seems to be a problem for affluent children more than for poor children. It's those who can't afford to travel or to take music and art lessons who need summer camp the most, and who are least likely to get it.
 Still, even for poor families, there are compensations to staying close to home. They are, for instance, more likely to rely on relatives to take care of their children. Barbara Hicks, who is retired from working in a laundry and is raising her two grand-daughters, Sasha, 15, and Shamira, 14, in Hartford, sees summer as a time for the girls to spend time with their network of cousins and their older sister. The bonds between the cousins, Ms. Hicks said, grow stronger with each passing summer.
 In some places, government officials have tried to strip away the economic barriers that keep children home when they would rather be in camp.
 Kate Murray, the Hempstead supervisor, estimates that 2,500 children from 5 to 13 years old are participating in free town recreational programs this summer, and another 10,000 are taking swimming lessons.
 ''Most of the time kids can ride their bike and get to a pool,'' she said. ''The accessibility is there. We offer a little bit of independence for kids growing up. They can spread their wings and be in a very safe environment.''
 And every time she visits a town pool, she says, she feels as if she were a child again, back in that misty land of memory, when she was free to be and not to do.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Thornell family of Summit have stay-at-home children thanks to flexible work schedules, a reliable baby sitter and the comfort of neighbors. Aidan, above, riding his bicycle while his sister, Sydney, below right, rode a scooter. Dave Thornell, below, making repairs to Aidan's bike while his wife, Emeline, center, and Sydney looked on. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Aidan Thornell shooting baskets outside his house in Summit. He also reads, writes letters and draws during the dormant days of July and August.
Dave Thornell, right, plays with his children. Soon the family will head to his parents' home in Massachusetts.
 Aidan Thornell, 5, and his sister, Sydney, 9. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Felipe Galindo)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (64%) Seasons and Months ; Children and Youth; Families and Family Life; Suburbs

PERSON: Kevin Cahillane; Jane Gordon; Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



197 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POSTCARDS FROM THE SHORE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: A New Wave of Workers

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: WILDWOOD 

 BODY:
THE patter is unmistakably Boardwalk, handed down for decades from summer to summer: ''A winner every time. Step right up. Winner takes his choice. Come on, only need one more to play.''
 But the accent is different. The name tag attached to the young woman at the water-gun race at the Schellenger Avenue Pier reads ''Verushka,'' and she is here from Ukraine. 
 ''I am here, as they say, because America is the land of opportunity,'' the 22-year-old blond woman said. ''And this is my opportunity to have fun for the summer.''
 A generation ago, the invasion of summer workers was predominantly from Philadelphia and its suburbs or from North Jersey or maybe Staten Island. But as business boomed along the shore in the 1980's, Irish workers on special visas started to join them. But Ireland has prospered in recent years, and there is little reason to stray. 
 As a result, summer visitors to the Jersey Shore are increasingly hearing Eastern European accents. With temporary work permits in hand, young people from Poland, Russia, Romania, and other former Eastern Bloc countries have come out from behind the old Iron Curtain and into the pizza parlors, Boardwalk amusements, and T-shirt concessions.
 ''I think the Irish thing started because there were just some jobs, menial things like being a chamber maid, that local kids didn't want to do any more,'' said Richard Samuelson, who owned Poor Richard's Inn, a bed and breakfast in Cape May for 25 years. 
 In the 1980's, Mr. Samueson said, he started hiring Irish workers, whom he found reliable -- even if they did party quite a bit. 
 ''Then around 1990, you started getting two groups, the hard workers and the partiers, and you had to distinguish them,'' he said. ''By the mid-1990's, the economy in Ireland started getting better, so only the partiers were coming. So a few years ago, everyone started hiring the Yugoslavs and Polish and Romanian kids, who were the new hard workers.''
 At the same time this was happening, the circumstances of local college youths was changing. ''Today's college kids are looking for jobs that will give them an edge in the future work world,'' said Jeanne DeYoung, who runs the Monmouth County Tourism Department. 
 For instance, she said her own children have forsaken traditional beach jobs, even though they live nearby, to work at internships in their chosen fields. ''On top of that, they either go to summer school or start college so much earlier than before. If you own a pizza parlor, are you going to hire a kid who is going back to school on Aug. 20, or a kid from Russia who might not have to go home until the end of September?''
 The Morey Organization, which owns the three major amusement piers and several hotel properties in Wildwood, hires from 700 to 800 young workers from up to 30 countries every year, advertising on its Web site and sending recruiters to international employment fairs to make sure each applicant's English, deportment and working papers are satisfactory.
 While the typical starting salary paid by Morey is $6 an hour (plus such perks as help with housing, trips to Philadelphia and Washington, and discounts on rides and pier food) may not attract middle-class youths from the suburbs, it has been fine for those wanting to spend the summer in Wildwood.
 At the Lobster House, the largest restaurant and fish market in Cape May, Eastern Europeans have been filling up jobs formerly reserved for local youths for the last two years or so.
 ''I can't tell you exactly why, but we employ about 500 people,'' said Jackie Dever, banquet manager at the Lobster House. ''We needed more and more and they were there and willing to work. I'd say most of ours are Russian or Polish.''
 Most visitors seem to take the unfamiliar accents in stride and with a touch of humor.
 ''It shows we won the cold war,'' said Bill Morrow of Cherry Hill, a visitor to the boardwalk. ''It's perfect that they have come here to see what we have.''
 Still, not everyone is happy. The Cape May Herald, a free weekly newspaper, published a virulent complaint in what it calls ''Spout Off'' and features letters from readers.
 ''I am fed up with the Russian invasion of Wildwood Crest,'' read the posting, signed only ''Wildwood Crest.'' ''You can't even go to -- for instance -- a locally owned ice cream parlor that you have gone to for 20 years and receive the correct order. And forget about going near the library. That might as well be the Russian Embassy. If you get a work visa, learn how to speak English.''
 Mr. Samuelson admitted that sometimes the language barrier was difficult, though it was usually overcome with their sincerity, patience and work ethic.
 ''Can you imagine how grateful they are?'' he said. ''They come here and make, in some cases, as much as their parents might in a year. They are on the beach for the summer and have a great time, even when they are packed in eight to a two-bedroom apartment. I'm sure they speak highly of being here, since more and more come to try to work every year it seems.''
 Verushka, the water-gun race barker, agreed.
 ''I will try to come back again and I'm sure I can convince several friends,'' she said. ''I never heard of the Jersey shore at home, but now it seems like paradise.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Olga Drahoradova of the Czech Republic, left, worked the arcade at Morey's Pier in Wildwood. Zornitsa Motsova of Bulgaria assisted on amusement rides. (Photographs by Mary Godleski) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); WOMEN (78%); CHILDREN (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (64%) Labor; Foreign Labor; Temporary Employment

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) IRELAND (92%); ROMANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); UKRAINE (88%); POLAND (87%); EUROPE (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (77%); CZECH REPUBLIC (75%); BULGARIA (51%) New Jersey; Poland; Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



198 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead as Houses Keep Selling

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
THE number of home sales in New Jersey rose 11 percent in the first half of 2004 over the same period last year, according to the latest report from an East Brunswick-based appraisal company that supplies information on trends in home sales.
 Jeffrey Otteau, president of the company, the Otteau Appraisal Group, which publishes its quarterly findings at otteau.com, called the increase in sales strong evidence that the residential real estate market continues to thrive despite rising mortgage rates.
 ''It should be noted, however,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''that the market has lost some ground in the last three months, as year-to-date home sales were running 16 percent ahead of last year through the end of March, but slipped to 11 percent ahead of last year by the end of June.'' 
 Mr. Otteau said this trend suggests that the combined effects of rising mortgage rates and still-rising home prices mean fewer people can afford to buy homes.
 Mr. Otteau called it noteworthy that the inventory of homes being offered for sale increased 12 percent -- from 25,270 in the first six months of last year to 28,325 this year, or an increase of 3,055 homes.
 The new report's statistics on the number of homes under contract for sale in each of 18 counties across the state that the company includes in its study tends to show a pattern of increased supply in a tug-of-war with rising demand.
 In Bergen County, for example, where the inventory of homes on the market was up 5 percent, the number of contracts rose only 4 percent. In Hunterdon County, which had 8 percent fewer homes on the market in January through June 2004, the number of contract sales was up 22 percent.
 Morris County, however, had 9 percent more homes for sale through June of this year compared with last year; the number of sales contracts was up 7 percent. Essex County's numbers were similar: 9 percent more homes for sale, and 9 percent more sales.
 In Ocean County, which is increasingly popular with empty-nesters, the large number of new active-adult developments for people over age 55 helped produce a 40 percent increase in homes for sale. The number of sales contracts, meanwhile, rose by 25 percent.
 Only Camden and Gloucester Counties in the southern part of the state showed no increase in number of home sales, although both had increases of 15 percent or more in inventory.
 In certain towns, the supply and demand dynamic was very pronounced: In Bloomfield, in Essex County, the Otteau group's numbers showed a steep and steady climb in listings and a sharp 20 percent decline in number of sales during May and June. And in nearby Nutley, the number of listings spiked and the number of sales plummeted.
 But in neighboring Glen Ridge, both the number of new listings and signed contracts dipped in May and rose in June.
 The Otteau group works with numbers of signed contracts rather than with completed sales in producing its market research because that provides more timely information, even if it is slightly less reliable, since some contracted sales might fall through. 
 Mr. Otteau and the brokers who pay for his services say the lag time between signed contracts and closings is often too long to provide an accurate picture of what is happening on the market right now.
 The Otteau report is based on data supplied by various local Boards of Realtors and multiple-listing groups.

Hartz to Hold Meetings On Ford Site
 Last May, Ford announced that its 56-year-old assembly plant on Route 1 in Edison had been sold and would be razed to make way for a proposed ''lifestyle center'' -- including entertainment, retail, office and residential buildings, to be developed by Hartz Mountain Industries.
 Hartz, meanwhile, announced that it would be mindful of the huge changes the project would bring to Edison, and pledged no redevelopment work would begin until after the company met with local business owners and residents.
 Hartz, based in Secaucus, has scheduled the first in what is to be a series of open town-hall-style meetings for Thursday at 7 p.m., at the Edison Clarion Inn.
 Last week, the company also started a Web site at hartzedison.com for comments, proposals, questions and suggestions. Hartz's evolving plans for the Ford site will be updated frequently on the site, company officials said.
 Hartz, the operator of five New Jersey malls and the builder of much of the modern Journal Square in Jersey City, is stressing the importance of community input out of a recognition that civic-minded residents have strong feelings about the plant, which operated continuously for more than half a century as a major employer in town, said Hartz's president, Emanuel Stern.
 ''A major, established town like Edison and a site as complex as the Ford property require that we do everything we can to understand the project through the eyes of local residents and community organizations,'' Mr. Stern said. ''We are committed to using an array of communication tools that allow the public to interact with us frequently and in their preferred manner, whether that be in writing, through local leaders, or in person.'' 
 Ford has only begun the process of demolition at the site. It is also working on environmental cleanup, according to a plan approved by the state's Department of Environmental Protection. The automaker is expected to turn over the Edison site to Hartz by the end of the year.
 Hartz's bid to develop the Meadowlands Continental Arena site into a mixed-use entertainment complex was denied earlier this year -- a decision that Hartz continues to appeal in court. 
 Meanwhile, on Route 27 in Edison, more big changes are poised to occur: The former world headquarters of Revlon, the cosmetics giant, also awaits redevelopment as a mixed-use project, by NAI Hanson of Hackensack, a large real estate development firm.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Watching the Market''The number of houses for sale in 18 New Jersey counties rose in the first half of 2004 over the same period last year, but the number of houses going into contract has not kept pace.Graph tracks listing supply from 2003 and through June 2004.Graph tracks contract sales from January through June 2004.(Source by Otteau Appraisal Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); EMPTY NESTERS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); MOUNTAINS (62%) Housing; Interest Rates; Mortgages; Real Estate; Automobiles; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Hartz Mountain Industries; Ford Motor Co

PERSON: jeffrey otteau; Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Edison (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



199 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; Page Two: Aug. 1-7; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Why the Week Went Orange

BYLINE: By MARK GLASSMAN

 BODY:
EVEN by the standards of the post-9/11 world, it was a bizarre week. It began Sunday, when the Bush administration raised the national threat advisory index to its second-highest level: orange.
 Actually, the Department of Homeland Security, reacting to what it called highly specific intelligence, placed only parts of New York City, northern New Jersey and Washington on orange alert, leaving the rest of the country at condition yellow.
 Five buildings were given as suspected Qaeda targets, though no one suggested when they might be hit: the New York Stock Exchange and Citigroup buildings in Manhattan; the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington; the Prudential Financial building in Newark. 
 The administration said the attack could be an external strike, like a truck bomb, or an assault by someone within one of the organizations, or a cyberattack, like a computer virus, that could disrupt the markets. 
 When might the alert end? The administration was uncertain, but thought maybe around the time of the November election. 
 Why an alert?
 On Friday, July 30, Frances Fragos Townsend, President Bush's domestic security adviser, was briefed about a computer seized in Pakistan several weeks earlier, said to contain evidence that Al Qaeda had cased buildings in New York and Washington. She was also told other sources suggested a potential attack in New York.
 The next day, there was still debate over whether raising the threat level was worth the cost to the economy and to national morale. ''This was not a decision that was made lightly,'' an administration official said.
 What did the government say at first?
 Last Sunday afternoon, Tom Ridge, the secretary of Homeland Security, and four senior intelligence officials, told roughly 20 journalists that new information provided a snapshot of Al Qaeda planning at an unprecedented level of detail. 
 One of the officials called the information, ''chilling in its scope, in its detail, in its breadth.'' 
 That official provided a list of specific information that Al Qaeda had acquired about its targets, including descriptions of the guard uniforms and assessments of where an explosive device would inflict the most the damage.
 How did the government's message change during the week?
 On Monday, officials acknowledged that many of the documents were three or four years old. But a senior White House official said other intelligence also suggested an attack to disrupt the presidential election.
 Tuesday, the administration denied the timing of the announcement -- coming as Democrats hoped to get a bounce from their national convention -- was political. ''We don't do politics in the Department of Homeland Security,'' Mr. Ridge said.
 Wednesday, the government announced that the information that led to the orange alert also led to the questioning of 12 men in Britain and to one arrest.
 Friday, the government announced that the arrested man, Abu Issa al-Hindi, led the surveillance of the five buildings at the order of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, who helped to mastermind the attacks of Sept.11.
 What has been learned about Al Qaeda?
 Taken with other evidence of Al Qaeda plots, the events of last week show that Al Qaeda conducts extensive surveillance on potential targets years in advance and patiently waits for the right moment to strike.
 How did the country react? 
 People reacted with a mixture of fear and skepticism. Some questioned the timing of the announcement. The world's financial markets remained stable after the initial news, though the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq fell Thursday.
 How has the episode played politically? 
 In some ways, President Bush seemed far more in control than he did during, say, the release of the 9/11 commission report (though he misspoke when he told Pentagon officials that America's enemies ''never stop thinking about new ways to harm our country and our people, and neither do we'').
 Senator John Kerry was careful not to accuse Mr. Bush of playing politics, though he criticized Mr. Bush's diplomacy in the war on terror. Former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont bluntly questioned whether the White House was manipulating the release of information to help the campaign.
 What else happened on the terror front?
 Monday, Mr. Bush endorsed the recommendation of the 9/11 commission for a national intelligence director, but gave the director far less power than the panel sought.
 Thursday, two leaders of an Albany mosque were arrested on charges involving an attempt to import a shoulder-fired missile and assassinate a Pakistani diplomat in New York.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The New York Stock Exchange. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); CYBERCRIME (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); PRU (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004



200 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Patriots Adhere To Bottom Line To Stay on Top

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

DATELINE: FOXBORO, Mass. 

 BODY:
There is nothing terribly sexy about the New England Patriots. Rare is the headline-grabbing free-agent spending spree; the all-or-nothing push for a championship is nonexistent. 
 But the two Lombardi trophies the Patriots have won in the past three seasons are like beauty queens reflecting their glow on even the nerdiest guy.
 The Patriots follow a mantra that has appeared at the bottom of their scouting manuals since 2000: ''We are building a big, strong, fast, smart, tough and disciplined football team that consistently competes for championships.'' The mantra is not exactly zingy, but it is accurate. 
 With their championships and a fruitful off-season behind them, the Patriots continue to sign the right players -- often unheralded and undervalued -- to fill out their roster. 
 With their pragmatic business sense and a strict adherence to finding -- and teaching -- the players who best fit their program, the Patriots have fashioned a blueprint for sustained success in the N.F.L. They enter the 2004 season with a 15-game winning streak and are well placed to become the first team to win back-to-back titles since the Denver Broncos did so in the late 1990's.
 New England, one American Football Conference general manager said, ''is our benchmark.'' 
 In an era when teams are torn down as quickly as they are built up, the Patriots have created the closest thing the N.F.L. has to a dynasty. They have been smart. 
 They patched their one weakness by trading for the Pro Bowl running back Corey Dillon.
 And they have been lucky in many ways. Tom Brady, a sixth-round draft pick, has blossomed into the most reliable quarterback in the league and has not had a serious injury. Their coaching staff has remained intact. When defensive tackle Ted Washington left for the Oakland Raiders, the Patriots watched as Vince Wilfork, a nimble tackle out of Miami who had been rated among the best at his position in the draft, fell into their laps with the 21st overall pick.
 [On Thursday, New England signed Dana Stubblefield to a one-year deal believed to be close to the veteran minimum of $760,000. Stubblefield, who was recently fined for testing positive for the steroid THG last year while with the Oakland Raiders, will be part of the rotation at defensive tackle and will tutor Wilfork.]
 ''Our overall philosophy is to try to be consistent, not to do everything and try to have this one big year and the next year we know we're going to pay the price,'' Coach Bill Belichick said. ''Anybody can do it once, but whether it's your effort in the weight room, your performance on the field, the team performance over an extended period of time over the season, it's always brought back to consistency is what a champion does.'' 
 He added dryly: ''I wouldn't be the one to go drop a couple of paychecks on the lottery. That isn't really my style.''
 When Robert K. Kraft, the Patriots' owner, hired Belichick and Scott Pioli, the vice president for player personnel, before the 2000 season, he was impressed not only by Belichick's acumen with a defensive game plan but also by how he evaluated talent with an informed economic sense. (Belichick's degree is in economics.) It is a formula Belichick and Pioli had been devising since they started working together in 1992 with the Cleveland Browns. 
 Kraft compares it with the way value is calculated in his paper and packaging business: How do you build inventory? What are your alternatives? What are the costs in a changing marketplace? When Kraft bought the Patriots 10 years ago, he became emotionally attached to players. The team lavished blockbuster contracts on quarterback Drew Bledsoe and cornerback Ty Law, among others. 
 When Belichick and Pioli arrived, the Patriots had 42 players on the roster but were $10.5 million over the salary cap. Belichick and Pioli emphasized being fiscally responsible and unearthing versatile athletes who play multiple positions. 
 After Bledsoe was hurt and Brady took the Patriots to their first title, in the 2001 season, Bledsoe was gone. Safety Lawyer Milloy and the team reached an impasse in discussions about how to lower his salary-cap number, and he was released just days before the start of last season. It was a daring move, which intentionally or not sent the message that nobody is indispensable and that the Patriots will adhere to their plan, no matter whom it angers.
 ''What I respect about Bill is we have a system in place, and it's not dependent on what the marketplace has to offer,'' Kraft said. ''It's a system of what players are right for his system. Whether from the free-agent market or drafting, there is a philosophy of the kind of player that fits here.''
 After so many years, Pioli knows Belichick's priorities, and they go beyond which players physically fit the scheme. Football had better be one of the three most important things in their lives, and the other two should probably be family and faith, Pioli said. Belichick has no patience for dumb players, and that is not limited to intellect. And he has no use for high-maintenance personalities. 
 The Patriots have cultivated a group that is exceptionally deep but largely devoid of superstars. That helps keep their spending in check. For the 2001 season, they signed 17 veteran free agents for a combined signing bonus of less than $3 million. They were mostly bit players, overlooked by other teams; players like the athletic linebacker Mike Vrabel, who never started in four seasons with the Pittsburgh Steelers and had considered quitting football for law school. Now, Vrabel, who can rush or drop into coverage, is one of the linchpins of the Patriots' continually changing defense. 
 ''Those guys were probably all in the middle of the pack relative to their positions,'' the A.F.C. general manager said of the Patriots' 2001 signings. ''They may say: 'I don't want that top-five guy. I don't want to pay that. This guy has to be a lunch-pail guy who can play within our system.' Not everybody can do that. Then you get a blue-collar mentality.''
 Giants General Manager Ernie Accorsi said he modeled his team for this season after the 2001 Patriots, signing about 15 free agents, most of them off the radar screen. 
 When contract talks come up, the Patriots sell intangibles: winning and opportunity. That may not lure a megastar looking for a huge payday, but it is enough for others. 
 Several Patriots have contracts that are under the market rate, a fact that worries agents but intrigues salary-cap gurus. Brady's contract, which expires after the 2006 season, is worth $30 million, less than the signing bonus Indianapolis gave this year to Peyton Manning, who has never been to a Super Bowl. Brady is not complaining. And in recent years, the Patriots have signed their first-round picks to six-year deals, essentially postponing the next big payday. 
 Last season, New England had the league's ninth-highest payroll, according to a survey published in the spring by USA Today. Pioli said that his parents did not have a credit card until he went to college, and that those values informed the Patriots' operations today.
 ''They believe if you don't have enough money for it, you don't get it,'' Pioli said of his parents. ''That goes into the whole philosophy when we got here. No matter what you borrow, it will eventually come to be paid. Fortunately, we have some players that are willing to make some quality-of-life decisions.''
 Belichick is also committed to getting the most out of his 45 active players on game day. Last year, Dan Klecko played several positions on the defensive line and occasionally lined up on offense. This year, the Patriots are trying him at linebacker. Vrabel, a linebacker who played defensive end and even nose tackle in passing situations last year, has practiced at tight end.
 ''If you can only be good at one thing, you'd better be really, really, really good at it, and it better make a difference in the game, or we can't afford it,'' Belichick said. 
 Now, other teams find they need to be really good at copying the Patriots' plan. 
 ''You can follow that blueprint, but the blueprint isn't going to win,'' Accorsi said. ''What will win are your judgments. If you're signing 15 guys, they better be the right 15 guys. If there are seven good and seven misses, you're not going to win. They are operating brilliantly. They've made almost no mistakes.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Linebacker Mike Vrabel, right, is one of the players the Patriots value for his versatility. (Photo by Joe Giblin/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
 The Patriots patched their only big hole by trading for Bengals running back Corey Dillon. (Photo by Winslow Townson/Associated Press)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); STEROIDS (69%) Football; Super Bowl

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (82%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (59%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%) New England Patriots

PERSON: Judy Battista

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (70%) NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2004

 
