

601 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: For the Sake Of Argument

 BODY:
Weisberg's article was hardly an unbiased or accurate answer to the question on your cover. For example, Weisberg wrote, "After 24 years in the Senate, he leaves behind a record long on concepts and short on concrete results." This is false, as are other opinions expressed in the article.
More than $80 billion was distributed to New York State thanks to legislation introduced by Moynihan. He was the principal architect of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. That cut in half the federal deficit -- a reduction of more than $500 billion in the ensuing years. 
 He sponsored the Family Support Act. This strengthened child-support requirements and provided additional financing for job training and education for unemployed parents. As part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, he sponsored amendments to the Family Support Act to improve access to health care for children and further strengthen child-support enforcement.
In 1993, he ensured needed changes in the Earned Income Tax Credit. Result? In New York State, 890,000 families, almost 20 percent of all families, received tax credits totaling $1.45 billion.
In 1994, the Senate Finance Committee unanimously approved his legislation (S.1231) to expand Social Security coverage for domestic workers. That also simplified reporting requirements for employers.
There are many other examples: better transportation for New York, help for subway riders, preserving New York's beaches, developing Western New York, fighting gun violence, fighting terrorism. He supported the arts, the best nominations for the judiciary and more -- much more.
In his last election, he received the largest majority of votes in the history of New York State. Clearly, the citizens of New York have a more accurate picture of the senator than what was written with such animus in your article.
 
Martin E. Segal
New York 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); FAMILY LAW (75%); CHILDREN (74%); TAX LAW (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (69%); INCOME TAX (67%); TERRORISM (64%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (53%); 

PERSON: MARTIN E SEGAL NEW YORK (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



602 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
Derring-Do of the Stay-at-Home Dad

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I HAVE had this fantasy for a number of years, and while it is one of my few actually attainable dreams, I have never had the courage to make it happen. I suppose that's because I find the fantasy -- to quit work and stay home to raise my four children -- more attractive than what it would take to do it.
One of the highlights of my day is to walk my three sons to school in the morning. There is an ease to those moments, and my boys talk to me more intimately, with more openness, than at any other time of the day. After I deliver them and head for my train to the city, still glowing from their company, the fantasy is strongest. 
 I suspect that a lot of other men have similar thoughts, but I also suspect that we all get hung up on the same concern: How would we ever be able to do it?
Not only would the loss of income make it difficult, but how do we give up identities that rely so much on what we do at work? The male ego is notably hefty. On that note, are any of us guys prepared to have our wives be the sole breadwinners? As one stay-at-home dad said: "I feel funny buying my wife $40 worth of roses with her money."
Still, men are doing it. The Census Bureau estimates that 459,000 fathers were staying home to take care of their children, ages 14 and under, in 1993, the latest year for which figures were available, and that almost three-fourths of them were the primary sources of care.
"Twenty years ago it was almost freakish," said Peter Baylies, 44, of North Andover, Mass., who publishes At-Home Dad, a newsletter. "Now it's considered unusual. So at least we're making some progress."
I see two stay-at-home dads when I walk my sons to school. They never race for the train, and I know that they're not looking at me fantasizing that they were. I have told both men how much I admire them.
"Some guys are envious," said one of the dads, Thomas J. Lawton Jr., 39, who worked for a company that guaranteed student loans before deciding four years ago to stay home with his two boys, ages 6 and 9. "They say, 'If I could stay home, I would do it in a minute.' Other guys think, 'He can't hold down a job, he couldn't achieve.' I was in a management position before I left work and had the love and adoration of my staff. I guess I still do."
The other dad, Kirk Schubert, 45, who has four children, ranging in age from 2 to 9, and another on the way, doesn't hear many comments about his ability to hold down a job, but he does get tired of being called Mr. Mom. He left work as a derivatives trader in Manhattan in 1997, after his wife took a job with UBS Warburg in Stamford, Conn. He could afford to stay home, but he also wanted to.
"There was a very clear routine at work, but over time it was hard to tell one day from the other," he said. "I felt like I was not marking the days of my life with really important things. With the kids, I don't have that feeling.
"I remember a hit I got during a high school baseball game," he added. "When I got to second base, I couldn't get the smile off my face. I felt that way when I left work."
After hearing lines like that, who wouldn't be tempted? But Mr. Baylies, a stay-at-home dad with two school-aged children, says making the leap isn't easy -- and not just because of the economics. It can take a long time to feel comfortable with the new role, he said, and the isolation can be tough. Gone is the camaraderie of work.
"When I walked around the block with the stroller, I would only see moms," he said. "Pretty soon you're talking about blankies and sippy cups."
His advice for any man wanting to try this at home is to first consider what kind of dad he is. "Do you have the patience to be with your child all day long?" he asked. "Are you outgoing and self-motivated? Are you willing to live with a lower income?"
Although many dads are saying yes, a lot are obviously saying no. The Census Bureau said that while almost a half-million dads were home taking care of their children, there were about another half-million at home who were not.
Kristine Smith, a family demographer at the bureau, said that situation could be attributed to several factors. Some dads were out of the house trying to find jobs, while some families decided to keep their children in day care. But she said some men just weren't interested in taking care of their children.
In other words, many men are handed the opportunity to be stay-at-home dads, but they don't share my fantasy. They would rather go back to school, back to work -- anything but push a stroller.
Many men say stay-at-home fathering is a luxury that only the wealthy can afford, which seems to make sense until you realize how long women managed the same feat. I know an excuse when I hear one.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Keith Bendis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (89%); MEN (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); CENSUS (52%); STUDENT LOANS (50%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PETER BAYLIES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



603 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK;
Skilled Foreign Workers: More to Come

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
ROBERT THOMPSON wasn't "Bob" until he came to Long Island. When he lived and worked in Europe, and before that in Canada, he was called Mr. Thompson.
"I walked into an office not long after I got here, and the receptionist asked me my name," he said. "I blurted out, 'Mr. Thompson.' The receptionist just looked at me in wonder for a moment and said, 'But what do I call you?' " 
 An Ottawa native, Mr. Thompson, 52, realized he had committed a cultural blunder. "Down here," he said, referring to the United States, "people automatically call one another by first names. It takes a bit getting used to for those of us who come here from other cultures."
Mr. Thompson is the chairman and chief executive of the QueryObject Systems Corporation, a publicly traded software company in Roslyn Heights. About a third of its 60 employees are foreign-born.
As the Long Island economy becomes more and more high-tech, foreign-born professionals and managers like Mr. Thompson -- Bob, if you will -- are taking their places in a culture that is often strikingly different from the ones left behind in like Russia, Poland and India, even Canada. But many high-tech executives on the Island believe that recruiting well-educated foreigners is a key to keeping the economy humming.
Their numbers will likely be increasing. Last month, President Clinton signed the American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act. Beginning in January, it will increase the number of H-1B visas issued annually, from 115,000 to 195,000 through 2003. Individuals eligible for this visa are in "specialty occupations," including scientists, researchers, high-tech professionals, health-care workers and, inexplicably, high-fashion models. The visas last six years.
There are about 3,000 foreign workers on Long Island holding this visa, said John Bolton, an associate at Nixon Peabody, a Garden City law firm, who specializes in immigration issues. "Many of these visitors do ultimately apply for permanent residence," he said.
The competitiveness act was passed with much support nationally from the software industry, but on Long Island, support has been tepid, at least publicly. The Long Island Association, the regional Chamber of Commerce affiliate that includes significant representation from organized labor, did not support the legislation. But "the buzz among our members was that, definitely, we need to bring in more foreign workers in order to fill jobs," said Mitchell Pally, the vice president for legislative affairs.
On Long Island, the complaint is often heard that there are not enough qualified workers, although rarely is that complaint hitched to hiring foreign workers as a solution. Earlier this month, Tomo Razmilovic, the president of Symbol Technologies in Holtsville, departed from his prepared speech to an association of business executives to call attention to the shortage of skilled labor, which he identified as the single biggest challenge facing Symbol. Mr. Razmilovic, a Croatian-born Swedish citizen, did not mention the competitiveness act in his comments about the labor shortage. Indeed, few Long Island business leaders have commented on the issue.
Peter Goldsmith, the president of the Long Island Software & Technology Network, called the legislation a Band-Aid solution. "Our companies need the help now," he said. "But procedures need to be put in place to train our own people here."
Privately, many companies like Query Object have addressed the labor shortage by recruiting professionals overseas, helping them to get visas but also to deal with the mundane issues of resettlement: housing, furniture and at least minimal acculturation. Many of them first worked for QueryObject in an earlier global network of software programmers in cities like Moscow and Warsaw but also in smaller cities in China, India and Pakistan. The network was set up by a previous management team; about two years ago, new investors decided to concentrate operations on Long Island and began recruiting workers from the far-flung network to resettle on Long Island.
"The company has been very good to us," said 36-year-old Piotr Parlewicz (pronounced PEE-oat PARL-ah-veech), an information architect from Poland. "It took about four months for them to get me and my wife a visa. They rented us a house in North Bellmore. We told them we needed a bigger house, and they found us one in Hicksville. Now we are looking to buy a house. But will the government let us stay here? Who knows? We are in a suspended state."
A colleague, Grzegorz Nowakowski (pronounced GREG-orz no-vah-KOF-ski), is even more unsettled. Unlike Mr. Parlewicz, his countryman, he is not certain whether he will return to Poland or remain in the United States. "My soul is Polish, my heart is Polish," said Mr. Nowakowski with some emotion. "My friends are all in Poland. When I return there for a visit, coming back here is very difficult for me."
One thing he misses is the cosmopolitan life he knew in Warsaw. "New York City is the capital of the world, but Long Island is a place to come home after work, to sleep," said Mr. Nowakowski, 34, who is single and lives in Levittown. After work, he said, groups of co-workers sometimes go out together to movies or bookstores with cafes. "Sometimes, after work, we just play on the computers," he said with some resignation.
Another colleague, Humera Qazi (pronounced who-MARE--ah QUAH-zee), depicts herself as happily adjusted to American life. A native of Kashmir, the strife-torn border state between India and Pakistan, she was raised mainly in London. "I feel comfortable both in the West and the East," she said.
After coming to the United States on a student visa about 11 years ago, Ms. Qazi, now 28, was hired by a Long Island software company that agreed to sponsor her for a green card. When the company refused to pay for her master's degree in business, which she completed two years ago at Hofstra University, she decided it was time to change jobs. She liked the more generous tuition reimbursement policies at QueryObject and was hired there.
"I think you will find that the foreigners who come to the U.S. to work are in general very big on education," she said. "However, it is such a different system than what most of us are used to. I never got used to calling my professors by their first names, and certainly not putting my feet up on the desk."
If some of her colleagues are pining for the familiarity of home as the holiday season rolls around, Ms. Qazi is not among them. "My husband is here; I have many friends here," she said brightly. "You'd be surprised how many Kashmiri there are on Long Island. We run into each other all the time at birthdays, social events, private parties. Every day my circle seems to get bigger."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At QueryObject, which is based in Roslyn Heights, about a third of the company's 60 employees come from foreign countries. Standing, from left: Piotr Parlewicz (from Poland), Grzegorz Nowakowski (Poland), Amjad Khan (Kashmir), Wei Chen (China) and Alex Genkin (Russia). Seated, from left: Bing He (China), Suba Rajesh (India) and Larisa Berenshteyn (Ukraine). (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OBJ (AMEX) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (55%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (55%); 

CITY: OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: QUERYOBJECT SYSTEMS CORP (83%); NIXON PEABODY LLP (81%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (55%); KASHMIR (55%); OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOREIGN LABOR (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (88%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



604 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Ford Thinks Green for Historic River Rouge Plant

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich.

 BODY:
THE Ford Motor Company revolutionized the world of manufacturing in the early part of the 20th century at its 1,100 acre industrial complex along the River Rouge here. People came from all around the world to observe a place where iron ore went into one end and a finished automobile rolled out the other a few days later.
Now the company, which is still controlled by the founding Ford family, is again trying the draw the attention of the world to the plant. It has begun a $2 billion project to build a new automobile plant on the brownfield site -- a site contaminated as a result of its earlier operations -- with a plan to actually improve the environment around it. 
 Both company officials and environmental advocates describe the new plant, on 550 acres of the factory site, as the largest industrial ecology effort in the world. "Deciding to rebuild on a brownfield is exactly the right approach, since it covers 80 to 85 percent of the environmental consequences," said Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, one of the nation's premier environmental groups. "There are 400,000 brownfields in this country that need this approach."
One of the things Ford plans to do is control the runoff of storm water, which sweeps pollutants from surfaces like buildings and parking lots directly into nearby rivers and lakes. The plan includes a -- literally -- green roof on the new factory, covered with soil and ground cover plants to retain and use rainfall, and parking lot surfaces that absorb falling water and channel it to shrub-laden channels attractive to songbirds and other wildlife.
Like everything else here, the scope of the effort is gargantuan. The 450,000 square foot rooftop, about the size of 10 football fields, will be the largest living roof on an industrial property anywhere in the world, Ford officials believe.
The story of the Rouge complex is typical of brownfields in many parts of the country. At the start of the last century, it was a marshy area in the flood plain of the slow, twisting River Rouge southwest of the then-small city of Detroit.
But it was also near the boyhood home of Henry Ford, who was coming to believe that controlling all phases of a process was the key to low-cost mass production of his popular automobiles. So he bought thousands of acres of land in Dearborn, filling in what were considered useless marshes where necessary. By the time he finished, mills at the Rouge refined iron ore into steel for use in car bodies, engine blocks and other components; melted glass for windows and headlights; produced early plastics from soybeans; and assembled the parts into Model T and Model A cars.
Almost a century later, attitudes have changed. Like other manufacturing companies, Ford wants to be in only the core of the automotive business. Today it designs cars and limits manufacturing to such critical components as engines and transmissions and final assembly. The steel plant is an independent company, and most glass and other components come from outside suppliers.
As its role changed, the future of the Rouge complex came into question. Would the company, as have so many before it, abandon an obsolete, polluted site to build gleaming new factories on paved-over farm fields in rural areas?
THE future of the Rouge apparently was determined when William Clay Ford Jr., the great-grandson of the founder, became chairman of the company early last year. "There were a lot of discussions about what to do with Rouge," he said in an interview. "When I became chairman, those discussions ended.
"This is our heritage," he added. "This was the most copied industrial facility in the world, and we are going to do it over again."
Ford officials insist that the new Rouge plant makes economic and business sense, although they concede that it will cost about 10 percent more than a conventional plant built on a rural site. The green roof on the assembly plant, they say, will be good insulation and will hold temperatures near the roof at within 5 degrees of 75 degrees, winter and summer.
Having a trained work force and a location close to the market for the products that the plant will produce are important competitive advantages, insisted James J. Padilla, the company's group vice president for worldwide manufacturing.
Guarantees of employment in Ford's contract with the United Automobile Workers Union would make it difficult to leave the Rouge plant, he said. But equally important, he said, is the cost of logistics.
"If you start shipping stampings around the world, you end up shipping a lot of air, which is expensive" because stampings are irregularly shaped, Mr. Padilla said. "You could move a plant to where labor costs are the lowest, but by the time you ship parts in and ship the vehicle out, you could end up with no economic benefit."
Part of the reason the Rouge project is possible is that the state of Michigan has progressive brownfield legislation, which calls for variable cleanup standards based on future use and provides financial incentives to undertake projects.
The state has "the best brownfields program in the nation," said Keith Schneider, program director of the Michigan Land Use Institute, a research and policy analysis group. He said legislation first passed in 1990 and later modified encourages the reuse of old industrial sites. Ford is expected to get $220 million in state and local tax credits and other incentives to assist the Rouge project, which will take more than two years to complete.
The architect for the project is William McDonough of Donough Braungart Design Chemistry of Charlottesville, Va., whom Mr. Hershkowitz describes as "the dean of green design."
Mr. McDonough said Mr. Ford had invited him to the company's world headquarters in Dearborn in early 1999 to explain his ideas for sustainable design and production. He said Mr. Ford then pointed out the window of his 14th floor office toward the nearby Rouge complex and asked, "Can you apply your thinking to that place?"
Mr. McDonough said he views the Rouge project as a "living laboratory" for design that does not deplete the environment and said the involvement of the giant automaker, which had revenues of $162 billion last year, is important in helping spread sustainable concepts. "Ford is big enough to create markets," he said, suggesting that the company's purchases will encourage the development of environmentally friendly products.
Since the Rouge complex is almost entirely built on or paved over, making room for environmental activity is taking some ingenuity. There are 100 miles of railroad lines on the complex, but 50 miles are no longer needed so they will be torn out to provide some open space.
A LARGE-SCALE effort to use vegetation to clean up contaminated land will take place on 30 acres of land near the steel mill. The land was formerly occupied by ovens to make coke. The process was dirty and contaminated the soil with complex hydrocarbon compounds.
The notion is that the plants will absorb the chemicals in their roots and change them within the plant's own chemistry into nontoxic, or less toxic, substances. The plants chosen, in association with professors from Michigan State University, will be ones native to the area, including sunflowers. "We want plants that like to grow here," one Ford official said.
There will also be an effort to improve the condition of the River Rouge, which was straightened out and lined with concrete in an Army Corps of Engineers flood control measure in 1970's. "The system works," said Timothy J. O'Brien, director of Ford's environmental quality office. "But it washes all the fish out into the Detroit River," a channel connecting Lakes Huron and Erie.
Part of the plan is to restore an oxbow bend in the river to give fish a place where the water is slowed down enough that they can hold their own. Another is to build a fish ladder in the dam that Henry Ford had built across the river to provide electric power for his estate, Fair Lane, so the fish will have access to the upper part of the river.
With an eye toward a stock market that might see environmental efforts as detrimental to shareholder interests, Ford officials say they are putting a close cost-benefit lens on the Rouge project.
"We have done time-adjusted return analyses on these projects," said George Sharp, the controller for the Rouge project. "Where the returns are better than the costs of capital, they build shareholder value."
Not every option has a clearcut answer. For example, the water runoff control program, including the green roof, is expected to cost $13 million. But regulators may impose runoff control rules that could force the company to build a conventional water treatment plant that would cost $48 million. If the green system treats the water naturally to meet the new standards, the savings to the company would be clear. But if the water treatment plant cannot be bypassed, Ford may end up paying more.
Obviously, the company's plans are not governed only by financial considerations, Mr. O'Brien said. "This place was a model of a 20th century industrial property," he said. If we do well, it could be a model for 21st century renewal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers drive piles at the site of a huge new assembly plant at Ford's River Rouge industrial complex in Dearborn, Mich., shown at right in a 1952 aerial photo. (Andrew Sacks for The New York Times); (Henry Ford Museum/William McDonough & Partners)
 
Map showing the location of Dearborn, Michigan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RIVERS (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); GREEN BUILDING (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); FLOOD ZONES (72%); LAKES (72%); BIRDS (63%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM CLAY FORD JR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



605 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Public Plazas On Private Property

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A recent study of the 1961 zoning incentive greatly underestimates the program's vast citywide benefits "A Public Realm on Private Property," Oct. 10 .
The real property and commercial rent levies alone from the additional 16 million square feet built because developers included plazas, arcades, walkways and atriums in their projects according to mandated standards total an estimated $155 million annually. Taking into account transfer, construction and other real-estate-related taxes, that added space has produced a revenue harvest of approximately $3 billion since the program's inception. 
 On the other side of the ledger, the acquisition, improvement and maintenance of the 80 acres of public space created under the program (more than the total area of four major city parks and some of it on Manhattan's most expensive real estate) have cost the taxpayers nothing.
Finally, the overwhelming majority of the plazas and other spaces deemed "marginal" in the report (41 percent) were built prior to 1975 and 1977, the years when the standards were significantly revised. Of the 89 plazas built since then, only 7 percent were characterized by the study's authors as marginal. The revisions have essentially solved whatever design problems arose under the prior regulations.
Corrective action and enforcement are in order where public spaces on private land are locked, poorly maintained or allowed to appear privatized for one reason or another. The record shows, however, that the zoning incentive has made our city a big gainer in revenue, public space, housing units and offices to accommodate economic growth.
 
BERNARD H. MENDIK
Chairman, Real Estate Board
of New York 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ZONING (90%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



606 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND JOURNAL;
India: So Close to Home

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE auditorium at Vedic Heritage, a Hindu temple in Hempstead, cannot be compared with Carnegie Hall. The 700-seat theater is in the basement of a former Y.M.C.A. Upstairs, a sanctuary is dedicated to Hanuman, the monkey god. The former indoor swimming pool has been turned into a shrine where congregants slip off their shoes and take offerings to their goddesses. The temple's spiritual leader, who is known as Guru Maa Saraswati or simply as Guru Maa, has a large bedroom at the rear of the complex.
But for musicians like Jasraj, a leading north Indian classical vocalist; Hariprasad Chaurasia, a virtuoso on the Indian bamboo flute; and Kelucharan Mahapatra, a master of the ancient Indian dance form called Odissi, the temple is a lucky charm. All three performed for the first time at the same event on Nov. 12 in a six-hour concert on the Vedic Heritage stage. 
 "This is my home," Mr. Jasraj said before the concert, sitting cross-legged on Guru Maa's bed and bestowing accolades upon the cleric whose stature in India is that of a senior cardinal. "This is the greatness of Guru Maa. This is what she brought together. This is spiritual music, very holy music."
Guru Maa arranged for the three superstars to celebrate the lunar holiday, Dipawali, the Indian Festival of Lights, at her temple. In the United States, the holiday, observed in India on Oct. 26, is celebrated for two to three weeks.
The serene, ruminative ragas sung by Mr. Jasraj and the dulcet tones Mr. Chaurasia created with his flute seemed mystical. But for many Indians who live on Long Island, Guru Maa's greatest achievement goes beyond the coup of bringing the three revered artists together. They credit Guru Maa, 61, with reviving the culture of India for those who have left their homeland.
"We are trying to keep our culture alive here," said Kusum Gupta of Plainview, a payroll supervisor at the Nassau County Medical Center who came to the concert in a gold satin sari. "When I came here in 1968, I was one of very few immigrants here. We didn't have much Indian society or culture or temples. We didn't have any cultural programs. We didn't have any classical Indian music like this."
"It gives us inner peace," Mrs. Gupta said outside the auditorium, as the program inside continued in Hindi. "It reminds us of our culture, how rich and how fulfilling it is. We can still have that deepness and that attachment to our roots while we are away from our country."
Dr. Shikaripur N. Sridhar, the director of the Center for India Studies established at the State University at Stony Brook three years ago, said there has been a major change in the cultural evolution of Indians on the Island over the last few years.
"The ambience has changed," Professor Sridhar said. "They have been highly educated, influential and effective in the community. Their presence is now being reflected in the community in America. They are affecting the mainstream culture."
Professor Sridhar estimates that there are more than 225,000 Indians in the New York metropolitan area and about 35,000 on the Island. Another estimate put the Long Island population at about half that number.
The profile of the Indian immigrant has changed over the last 10 to 15 years: many recent arrivals have found blue-collar jobs as taxi drivers, newsstand workers and gas-station attendants. But those who came in the first wave of Asian immigration after civil rights legislation opened the gates in 1965 were professionals, many of them in medicine, academia and information technology. Thus large numbers of Indians immediately entered the American middle class, bought homes in suburban areas and sent their children to the finest universities.
Because of their proficiency in English, Dr. Sridhar said, interacting with other Americans was easier for Indians than for other immigrants.
Still, misunderstanding of a foreign culture has caused problems, said Mukesh Malkan, Vedic Heritage's troubleshooter.
"Initially, our temple used to pay taxes even though it's a religious organization and not for profit," said Mr. Malkan, who has been coming from Paramus, N.J., to pray at the temple for 10 years. "It was a mistake by the Village of Hempstead. It was miscommunication. The village didn't accept us initially."
In July 1999, a Hempstead village police officer extinguished the temple's outdoor ceremonial fire, because he contended it was a code violation. After a series of meetings between temple and village officials, Mayor James Garner sent a letter of apology to Guru Maa last month.
There were not many Indians in Plainview when Mrs. Gupta moved there in 1968. Her Jewish neighbors would place their Hanukkah menorahs in their windows, but she would never display the candles she lighted for her own Dipawali celebration.
"There were so few, and nobody knew what our traditions were," Mrs. Gupta recalled. "Now we don't hesitate to light those candles outside the house. This is my festival. I want to celebrate. At one time we were thinking twice. Now I put out candles around my house, on my walkway, the decks, the way we used to do it in India, the way I celebrated in my parents' house."
"In years past nobody knew Indian culture," she continued. "Nobody knew Indians so much. Now you can say: 'O.K., we are part of United States. We are one of them.' "
When Dr. Purshottam Bhangdia, a Garden City anesthesiologist, came to Long Island in 1973, there were few immigrants from each of India's 26 states and only one Indian association, as the social groups are called. Now there are associations for each state and multiple Indian organizations. "If I or my wife saw an Indian in the department store or the grocery store, my wife would run and meet them," Dr. Bhangdia said. "Now there are so many."
Initially, Dr. Bhangdia said, he had to go to a temple in Queens. Now there are almost 20 Hindu temples on the Island, including those in Hicksville, Stony Brook, Hempstead, Huntington and Merrick. Muslim Indians can worship at 14 different mosques. There are also two Sikh temples, in Glen Cove and Plainview, and a Jain congregation has bought a site for a temple in Lake Success.
There is an Indian cinema in Hicksville, and another, which opened last month in Brentwood, shows only Hindi movies.
The hub of Indian life in New York had long been in Jackson Heights, Queens, but that hub is now shifting to the middle of the Island, said Dr. Sridhar of the Center for India Studies. Along Broadway in Hicksville, there are half a dozen Indian restaurants, boutiques that sell traditional jewelry and delicately embroidered saris, and grocery stores that are stocked with saffron and curries.
"There are so many Indians on Long Island now they don't have to travel to Queens," Dr. Bhangdia said. "They have everything on Long Island."
Dr. Bhangdia credited Guru Maa's Vedic Heritage organization with keeping Indian traditions alive and the culture vibrant. Prayer meetings are held in Hindi every Saturday and in English on Tuesday evenings, both followed by question-and-answer periods about philosophy and religion. Vedic rituals are taught, and yoga and meditation classes offered. There are traditional dance classes for children on Sundays.
"In this country we don't miss anything from India except our culture and parents," said Dr. Bhangdia. "Now we can get culture here. Parents are the only thing we miss."
As Guru Maa described her background, she grew up with "not a gold but a diamond spoon" in her mouth in a wealthy family in northern India. At 32, she left her husband and two sons to study with a guru, Acharya Viswanath Dev Sarma, at his institute affiliated with Calcutta University. At the institute she received a Ph.D. in 1977 in Indology, the study of Indian history, literature, philosophy and mysticism. She moved to Forest Hills in 1978, became a guru in 1981 and moved into her Hempstead quarters in 1983.
Despite their numbers and diversity, Indians on the Island tend to stick together, Guru Maa said. Regional and linguistic differences -- there are 22 major languages in India -- and the caste structure, with its four principal castes and myriad subcastes, are less of an obstacle in the United States, she said.
"I think people here are closer than in India," Guru Maa said. "Everybody here is far away from home, so we should be one together. Here that feeling of faith, feeling of love, feeling of devotion is stronger than in India. In India you will find each sect has their own spiritual head, each sect has their own guru. Here I have disciples from each part."
Dr. Sanghpriya Thakker, a psychiatrist from Manhasset who attended the concert, said the 17 Indian families in her neighborhood were from all different parts of India. "We all get together every few months at least," Dr. Thakker said. "We have Muslims, people from north India, people from south India all together. The caste system doesn't disappear, but people don't pay attention to that."
Guru Maa said she was not trying to stop assimilation. "I like this country a lot," she said. "But for a single moment I don't forget my own country. I never forget my own language. I belong to India. I am very proud that I am an Indian. I have no guilt about that, nor am I ashamed of my dress or my food. I like the Western world. Everything is so wonderful. But I don't dislike my own heritage."
Word of Guru Maa's work with Indians in the United States has reached her homeland, where she is building a Vedic Heritage center near Bombay.
Sunita Budhiraja, the concert's master of ceremonies, came from Bombay for the event. "Among artists she is well known," Ms. Budhiraja said. "She has done a great job trying to retain a culture in a different country. The house is full. It is heartwarming to see the community here keeping their roots."
Dressed in their finest traditional garb, Manesh and Raji Dave of New Hyde Park came to the concert with their children, Vrutti, 14, and Neil, 9. Recently, the family began studying classical Indian music.
"Before, they wanted to be Westernized," said Mrs. Dave, a lab technician who studied the ancient music traditions as a youngster in India. "Now more and more even the younger generation wants to learn about Indian music. It's a very good feeling inside for the youngsters to be joining in."
 
A Diverse Island
 This series looks beyond the stereotypes that sometimes taint relations between immigrants and native Long Islanders, examining immigrants' lives and how they are being woven -- or not -- into the social and economic fabric. Previous articles described the aspirations of Muslims on the Island, a Korean nail salon owner, a Colombian landscaper, an Indian liquor store owner, a Trinidadian who manages a convenience store, a Hungarian who owns a construction company and an Irish banker.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kelucharan Mahapatra, a master of the ancient Indian dance form called Odissi, performing at the Dipawali, or Festival of Lights, celebration earlier this month at the Vedic Heritage center, a Hindu temple in Hempstead. (Phil Marino for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Part of the audience, above, at the Dipawali celebration at Vedic Heritage. Guru Maa Saraswati, below right, and Jasraj, a leading Indian classical vocalist who was one of the superstar performers at the celebration. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIWALI (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); FESTIVALS (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); MUSIC GENRES (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: GURU MAA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



607 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: Standing Pat? Not Likely

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
FOR more than 35 years, Loretta Roberge and the brothers Courtland and Carlisle Fowler have been integral members of the Mohegan Indian tribe. Courtland Fowler remembers working together in the 1970's to draft the tribe's first constitution, meeting in one another's houses because the tribe had no office, no typewriter and no telephone.
Now the tribe operates the Mohegan Sun Casino at its reservation off Route 32 in Montville, taking in an estimated $1 billion a year. During the elections to fill the nine-member tribal council this year, none of the three longtime fixtures of Mohegan government, people who were instrumental in getting the tribe federal recognition and later the right to build a casino, were returned to office. Neither was the former chairman, Roland J. Harris. 
 "We had a good idea who was going to be elected going into it," Courtland Fowler said. "I guess we just have to wait and see how it all works out." He declined further comment, and his brother and Ms. Roberge did not return repeated calls seeking comment.
As the Indian casinos mature, the tribes are replacing the older leaders who ignited their good fortunes with a younger leadership with a different vision. Two years ago, the Mashantucket Pequots, who run the Foxwoods casino, voted out Skip Hayward as tribal council chairman in favor of Kenneth M. Reels. Mr. Hayward was the leader who had almost single handedly brought the tribe together and who had successfully fought for gambling rights. When he ran for chairman once more a year later, he lost again.
Marvin B. Roffman, a gaming analyst and principal of the New Jersey-based securities firm Roffman-Miller Associates, said the elections almost seemed to be corporate power plays by members as the tribes' main business, gambling, becomes phenomenally successful.
"It's amazing what happens when the money starts rolling in and the coffers start getting filled," he said, noting that both tribes had also replaced the professional managers who were initially brought in to manage their casinos. "When they get rich and powerful they want to do more things themselves. Anybody who does business with the Indian tribes had better realize their future can be pretty tenuous."
Members of both tribes either will not discuss the issues in the campaigns or will not discuss them for attribution. Outsiders say they think that the rapid growth of the two casinos played more a part in the outcomes of the votes than any tribal governmental issues.
"When you're running to be tribal council chairman, you're also running to manage the casino and the huge revenue stream that it generates, and that's what's really at stake," said Jeff Benedict, author of the new book "Without Reservation" (HarperCollins, $26), which criticizes the process by which the Mashantuckets gained federal recognition. "The change in power at Mashantucket was driven by greed and distrust, and to some extent by racial divisions. This was a tiny tribe that has grown to more than 600 people, and it is filled with newcomers who have their eyes on the money, and the power that comes with it."
The changes continued this month when the Mashantucket Pequots elected two new members to its tribal council, Charlene R. Jones and Fatima C. Dames, who unseated Gary A. Carter, a three-term member, and Antonio M. Beltran, who had served one term.
Officials for both tribes said the leadership changes were simply part of the democratic process and no different than the results of many first selectmen and mayoral races around the state every two years. As time passes, the electorate often seeks new leadership, they said.
"A tribal nation is like any other democratic government, and sometimes that's what happens," said Joseph A. Colebut, a Mashantucket, and the tribe's director of state governmental affairs. "We have elections every year, and the people's voices are heard."
Mark F. Brown, the new tribal chairman for the Mohegans, acknowledged that there was a perception that the elections represented some sort of a coup and said that this notion had to be overcome.
"People get the idea 'This guy has a machine gun and wears a beret' -- it's definitely an issue," Mr. Brown said. "But I think when they see what this is really all about, people will realize it's not a major change in the government at all. Mostly what people need to see is that there are no drastic changes taking place."
Certainly there are financial incentives to being a councilor in both tribes.
The 1,350 Mohegan members receive an annual stipend of $10,000 as well as educational, housing and other benefits. For council members, the stipend is $218,000; the vice chairman receives $318,000; and the chairman gets $408,000.
Though the Mashantuckets have never disclosed stipends to tribal members or councilors, published reports have said the payments are about twice as much as for the Mohegans.
Mr. Hayward, the newly re-elected chairman of the Mashantuckets, who was unavailable for comment, was first elected chairman in 1975, when there were only 33 members on the tribal rolls and he was the only tribal member living on the reservation.
At the time he was clearing trees for housing and trying to entice other members to move back.
Among his earliest economic development efforts included a pizza restaurant, a greenhouse where he raised hydroponic lettuce, and a maple syrup operation. But it wasn't until the tribe had opened a high-stakes bingo hall on the reservation in 1986 that it began to make large amounts of money. The casino opened in February 1992. Membership in the tribe now stands at about 650.
Mr. Reels was no newcomer to the Pequots when he was first elected chairman in 1998. He had worked for the tribe since 1987 and was elected to the seven-member council in 1991.
It was widely recognized by local government officials that Mr. Reels wanted to put the Mashantuckets on a firmer business footing.
One of the first actions of the new council was to close a shipyard in New London that built high-speed ferries; it had been a pet project of Mr. Hayward, a former pipe fitter at the Electric Boat shipyard in Groton, but the shipyard never received enough orders to become profitable.
Mr. Colebut declined to discuss any issues concerning the tribal council race two years ago, however. "I really don't want to get into issues or personalities," Mr. Colebut said. "The main thing is there is a tribal government process, and change is incorporated into that process."
At Mohegan, Mr. Harris, the former chairman, had been involved in the planning of the casino, which opened in 1996, and in a $1.1 billion expansion that is underway and that is to include a new casino, a 10,000 seat arena, 34-story hotel and convention center, and retail shops. He was unavailable for comment.
He and Jayne Fawcett, a former vice chairwoman who is still a member of the tribal council, were the top vote getters in a preliminary round of balloting in early August, when 56 candidates for office were narrowed to 18 candidates for the final ballot later that month.
The Mohegan historian Melissa J. Fawcett, the daughter of Jayne Fawcett, said throughout the tribe's history, which has been documented for hundreds of years, there has been more turnover in the political offices than in some of the more traditional positions, so the election results there should not have come as a surprise.
Since the American Revolution, the Mohegans have only had three medicine women, "but by contrast, we've had a bazillion chiefs and chairmen -- that's the nature of the beast," she said.
"Our belief is that the right person appears at the right time," Ms. Fawcett said. "It's a spiritual belief that the creator is guiding us to who or what we need as a people, as long as we're doing the right thing, as long as we give thanks and maintain our traditions.
"Getting elected doesn't mean you are the best person in the tribe, or the most respected person," she continued. "It just means that that person is what the tribe needs at that time. To say, 'They threw that great guy Roland Harris out' -- and he is a great guy -- is really too simplistic."
Mr. Brown, the winner, said he thought the vote was a response to his campaign promises to maintain communication with the membership.
"This entity was growing very quickly down here, and I think people felt a little isolated from what was going on," Mr. Brown said. "This is their casino, so why shouldn't they feel a part of it?"
"If things never change, you start to get complacent, and you're not going to be doing your job as well as you could," he added. "Change is good, it keeps us on our toes."
Lewis B. Rome, a Hartford lawyer who has represented the tribe for several years, said he thought outsiders have made more of an issue of the election results than tribal members.
"Elections always cause trauma to somebody and raise concerns, but I think over time you're going to see real harmony here," Mr. Rome said. "This is a tribe that sought federal recognition for 18 long years, long before anybody could spell casino. This is not about their economic engine, it's about recreating a nation."
Sometimes when a business undergoes leadership changes, lenders become nervous. And borrowed money has been key to the expansion of both casinos.
But Mr. Roffman, the analyst, said he did not believe that the upheavals would have any effect on the tribe's ability to do business, whether raising funds for their expansion or attracting vendors.
"They are so successful, so profitable, it's hard to conceive of them having any problems like that," Mr. Roffman said. "It would be easier for them to borrow money than for Xerox. They're obviously dealing from a position of considerable strength."
John E. Echohawk, director of the Native American Rights Fund, said he saw nothing unusual about the progression that is taking place at the two Connecticut tribes, because the same thing happens with some regularity at tribes that don't have large casinos.
"Sometimes things change, and sometimes they don't, and you can't always say why," Mr. Echohawk said. "I don't know as it's possible to make any general observations about what happened, other than it's politics."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction continues on the expansion of the Mohegan Sun Casino owned by the Mohegan Indian tribe, which recently replaced many of its leaders, including the longtime chairman, Roland J. Harris. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Mashantucket Pequot Inc.: The Foxwoods casino, which, since it opened in 1992, has made the tribe a financial as well as a political entity. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (91%); CASINOS (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: MASHANTUCKET PEQUOTS (73%); COURTLAND FOWLER (69%); LORETTA ROBERGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



608 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 34; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
When Getting to It Is Part of a Museum's Aesthetic

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
MICHAEL MALTZAN has designed a perfect museum for the work of Ed Ruscha. However, Maltzan's clients, the powers at the Museum of Modern Art, want to use it for paintings by van Gogh, Cezanne, Picasso and Matisse. Well, if they insist.
The MOMA Swingline Building, as this project is now called, is to open in 2002. Housed in a former office supply factory in Long Island City, Queens, it will display works from the permanent collection and changing exhibitions during the expansion of the museum's midtown campus. Reachable by the No. 7 subway line, the Swingline is not far from P.S. 1, the contemporary art venue with which the Modern formed an alliance two years ago. 
 For bicoastal types, the project will recall the Temporary Contemporary in downtown Los Angeles, the converted bus garage used for exhibitions while the nearby Museum of Contemporary Art was under construction. Like the Temporary, it signifies a moment of cultural transition. More than any event in recent decades, the Temporary (now known as the Geffen Contemporary) changed the cultural face of Los Angeles. The Swingline could help reinvent the Museum of Modern Art.
Maltzan, who is based in Los Angeles, has designed a destination logo, a variation on what Robert Venturi once called the "bill-ding board." The building itself is a box, a shed with given dimensions, topped with a roofscape of black and white boxes that spell out the MOMA brand. But the architect's intention is to connect this finite object to the larger cityscape and to the experience of leaving behind the great center of Manhattan. "Those Who Go" and "Those Who Stay," Boccioni's masterpieces of Futurist painting, could be the presiding images for the task of enticing visitors to escape inertia and venture into Outer Borough space.
If you've visited P.S. 1, you know that getting there is integral to the aesthetic experience. Since the publication of Brian O'Doherty's 1976 essay, "Inside the White Cube," context has been a critical factor in modern art. Surroundings for art are psychological as well as visual. They connote different value systems.
To get to P.S. 1, for example, you must first break through the psychological barrier of leaving Manhattan. Moments later, you have a radical change of scene. You shift from the verticality of Manhattan to the horizontality of Queens, from the subway's underground tunnel to its elevated tracks. For a few minutes, you are treated to the aerial, Peter Pan perspective of gliding through streets or just above rooftops. The view from the window is blurred.
Given the emphasis modern artists have placed on found objects, it is not difficult to accept the trip through urban space as part of the architecture of destination. It is an unfolding, processional space, a modern equivalent of the organized exteriors and interiors that lead us into and through Baroque buildings. Over the years, the Modern and other museums have handed us different lenses for viewing this experience: works by Cezanne, Braque, Leger, Feininger, O'Keeffe, Scheeler, Tinguely, Warhol, Grooms and Ruscha, among others. Consider Maltzan's project a pair of designer frames.
The roof of the Swingline MOMA is the building's main facade. It is a composition of black boxes, arrayed across the roof like a sculptural relief. (Some boxes conceal mechanical equipment.) White letters and letter fragments spell out the MOMA logo, a motif many of us associate with the museum's shopping bags and consumer advertising campaigns. The logo becomes fully legible only when you are just in front of the building, or nearly so. Approach it from either side, by train or street, and the boxes read as a blur of abstract shapes.
The facade does more than identify a place. It signifies a shift in mentality. The black surfaces and geometric forms of the boxes recall the Modern's Bauhaus period, or sculptures by Tony Smith, Clement Meadmore or Tony Rosenthal. The lettering, meanwhile, gradually composes itself into the image of a corporate brand. The roofscape changes, as you watch, from art to commerce. I suspect Maltzan intended this to be seen as a subtle critique of the Modern's current expansion into marketing. Are his clients in on the joke?
The street facade is a paint job: a two-tone, horizontal articulation of the two-story space within: white for the ground floor, a steely blue, or perhaps orange (yes!), for the mezzanine level above, the two sections divided by a recessed metal strip. The entrance is a glass box, outfitted with sliding doors, the MOMA logo frosted across them, the letters forming variations on MMoMoMAMAAo as the doors open and close, like the windows of two subways passing. And so the street facade projects the same mordant message as the roof facade. Think color field painting crossed with upscale shopping, Clement Greenberg morphing into Charles Saatchi.
Until now, the Modern has never given us an architecturally ambitious interior. This is one reason the sculpture garden stands out. Maltzan, however, has made up for this with a large, spatially complex lobby unmatched even by Yoshio Taniguchi's design for the midtown expansion. A two-level area occupying nearly a quarter of the building's 140,000 square feet, the lobby is a transitional space between an industrial urban context and exhibition galleries. Within the space are desks for ticketing and information, galleries for artists' projects, lavatories, cloak rooms and such.
BUT the main event here is space: room for looking up, looking down, looking around, just looking. Here, the processional sequence shifts to the dream logic of reversal. The city grid is replaced by diagonals. Sharp angles soften into curves. Space flows freely up and down staircases and ramps, creating multiple pathways within what amounts to an interior landscape: a fixed but flowing garden of sculptural void. As if to compensate for the flat, neutral lobby of the mother institution, this entrance recalls the plastic, expressive spaces of mid-century modern design. It really is a Swingline.
The main exhibition areas are beyond, in a vast, two-story, loftlike box, to be configured with partitions as curatorial needs dictate. Thus the Swingline continues by architectural means the theme of the Modern's current show, "Open Ends," and its belief in the idea that the modern is not a closed historical chapter. That is the continuing contribution to history that the idea of modernity has to make: history is a work in progress. Past, present and future live through us.
Michael Maltzan, too, is a work in progress. Born on Long Island in 1959, he was educated at Harvard and trained in the Cambridge, Mass., office of Machado & Silvetti, architects known for their tightly controlled, not to say rigid, aesthetic. Later, he worked in the office of Frank O. Gehry, where he was project designer for the fabulous Walt Disney Concert Hall, now under construction. Since leaving Gehry's office in 1995, Maltzan has been preoccupied with synthesizing these extremes of the super-rational and the hyper-intuitive. It's an impossible thing to do, of course, but the tension between them could drive Maltzan toward a mature vocabulary of his own. The Swingline project takes a big step in that direction.
The Museum of Modern Art deserves great credit for choosing Maltzan, not just because the choice shows faith in the work of younger architects, or because this particular architect has produced a good design, but because the project displays a greater willingness to reckon with institutional stagnation than the Modern has heretofore indicated.
If you are interested in modern art, then on some level you care about the idea of the "true self." The concept comes from D. W. Winnicott, the British psychoanalyst who specialized in child development. The term signifies a being unburdened by the expectations of others. To unload the burden, it helps to be nurtured by what Winnicott called the "good enough mother": not perfect, but able to sustain a reasonable balance between presence and absence, discipline and play, bonding and separation.
Probably many of us were first drawn to the Museum of Modern Art because it embodied some grown-up version of the good enough mother, an authority figure who could guide us toward our true selves. We could get angry and frustrated with the Modern, but it would be there the next morning, a showcase for artists who knew that something was not being said and discovered it was up to them to say it. The galleries recounted a history of previously unspoken statements. They aroused the desire to be heard, even in those who were far from formulating what needed to be said or in what medium.
The Modern is no longer a good enough mother. It's more like Mommie Dearest: too busy playing MOMA to nurture itself or others. Like other New York cultural institutions, the Modern's idea of success now appears to rest on a solid foundation of comfort with dullness, self-promotion and entitlement. Combined with the museum's aggressive ventures into e-commerce, this comfort with listless programming has produced an identity crisis. Taniguchi's design for the museum's expansion, I fear, is beginning to look like a reincarnation of the old Alexander's store on Third Avenue. It may turn out to be the showroom for a mail order catalog. Pick out your favorite Czech poster, then go online and buy one.
These are the issues Rem Koolhaas was reckoning with in his 1997 design for the museum's expansion. The study model included a tower, labeled "MOMA Inc." The tower was capped with a golden square, called "the aura," in the manner of an Egyptian obelisk. The gesture was meant to signify the museum's awareness of itself as a powerful institution in a global economy that relies increasingly on culture as a form of international currency (think Bilbao). Presented as a study of ideas rather than a formal solution, the project also took a straightforward look at the Modern's place in the contemporary city where culture is rapidly displacing manufacturing in the economic base.
When Koolhaas was rejected as a finalist, the museum let it be known -- to the architect, among others -- that it did not consider the proposal a serious one. The Modern took the position that having convinced himself that he could not win the commission, the architect had decided to send it up. Koolhaas denied this, with good reason. His proposal was neither more nor less cynical than any other design to come out of his studio.
This is the way Koolhaas works. He confronts institutions of power with analytic clarity. It is the basis of his imaginative gifts. Why invite him to the party and expect him to be someone else? Koolhaas was being the good enough mother. He was showing how the reality of the museum's present condition could be creatively transformed into a way of rejuvenating itself. I didn't care who got the commission. What I care about is the Modern's capacity for surprise.
COULD the Swingline project become the reincarnation of the Modern? Looking at this design, I think of the scene in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" in which George and Martha start bickering about their imaginary child, and Martha goes on and on about how "the little bugger" is the one pure, shining thing that hasn't been dragged down by her brutal, drunken wreck of a marriage. Perhaps the Modern, too, wants to be saved from its false self. And its little tot will be real.
It's easy to get to Queens, but not comfortable to imagine going there. That discomfort may be the best thing that the Swingline project has going for it. Like a Ruscha picture, Maltzan's design is a still shot from a motion sequence. Maltzan has described the design as a kind of essay on the experience of getting to the art. Which is kind of a great description for art itself.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Models of three views from which the Modern's building in Long Island City, Queens, might be seen from an elevated train. The museum will show some of its works there while expanding its Manhattan site.; A model of the mezzanine in the new MOMA Swingline Building. (Photographs by Joshua White)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (54%); 

PERSON: ROBERT VENTURI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



609 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2245 words

HEADLINE: The Store They Love and Hate

BYLINE: By DAVID WINZELBERG

DATELINE: HUNTINGTON STATION

 BODY:
RICHARD BALSANO became a customer of the Home Depot long before his baseboard heating pipe picked a bad time to spring a leak. "I had to get stuff to fix it right away," he said. "Where else are you going to go on a Sunday night?"
The Huntington resident and do-it-yourselfer said the convenience of the superstore was its major attraction. "You don't have to go to more than one place," he said. 
 But for Mr. Balsano and other Huntingtonians, that place was no nearer than Farmingdale or Commack or Jericho. That's why there's real excitement over the opening on Thursday of a local Home Depot, right here on New York Avenue in Huntington Station. Not since the Great Pumpkin has something this big and orange been so anxiously awaited.
The Home Depot, a handyman or -woman nirvana, has become part of the suburban landscape. Americans spend more money on home improvements at the Home Depot than anywhere else. Long Island is a major part of the company's success: all 15 of the stores already open on the Island exceed the corporate sales average.
But not everyone is happy about the Home Depot's arrival here. Local government officials may tout the store as a boon to the economy, but homeowners in the neighborhood behind the site are worried about its reputation for noise, traffic congestion and litter. Nearby hardware stores, garden centers and lumber yards may offer better customer service, but they sometimes wither and die when a new Home Depot shows up. The company may be known for great bargains, but many customers are put off by the crowds and heavy-industry ambience.
Bernie Case, a Huntington resident, said he prefers the smaller hardware store. "They still take the time to talk to you and they know you," he said. "Also I'm in and out. I go to Home Depot for big projects, when I have to buy lumber."
Even Mr. Balsano said he wouldn't consider himself a regular customer of the new Home Depot until he has had a chance to shop there. "It will depend on the experience and how much traffic there is," he said. "On certain days it can be pretty rough."
One thing everyone agrees on: a new Home Depot has an impact on the community. Here are how some of the interested parties view the situation in the Huntington Station area.
 
THE MOM AND POPS
Little Guys Wary Of 900-Pound Gorilla
Laurette Prisco was getting low on doughnuts. As a slow stream of customers entered the store her father and uncle built nearly half a century ago, she greeted them by their first names and offered them a late Saturday morning snack.
The doughnuts are a weekend tradition at Lamberta's Hardware, which has been run by Mrs. Prisco, 52, and her husband Charlie, 53, for a quarter century.
"A couple of people have asked me, 'Where's the coffee?' " Mrs. Prisco said. "Maybe I should think about putting in a coffee maker."
There may not be much time. Lamberta's, a 3,000-square-foot store at 160 Depot Road, is less than a mile from the new Home Depot, which is nearly 40 times bigger.
The Priscos sell convenience and service. Their bread and butter is the local customer who needs one box of brads or one can of paint and doesn't want to drive all the way to Farmingdale to spend 10 minutes dodging Home Depot fork trucks just to find the item, followed by 10 minutes in a checkout line.
Mrs. Prisco pointed to a man on his way to his car. "I got that guy out in less than a minute," she said. "That's not going to happen over there."
Some of her customers are in no hurry, lingering to look at the family photos by the cash register or to talk politics or the weather. Mrs. Prisco has time to chat. You won't get that at a Home Depot either.
Mr. Prisco was in the back of the store, delivering the other half of Lamberta's promise. "He's Mr. Fixit," Mrs. Prisco said. "People are always bringing in stuff we don't usually repair. They'll ask him to rewire a lamp or fix a fan. But he doesn't like to turn anyone down, so he tries."
Mr. Prisco acknowledged that when Home Depots opened in Farmingdale and Commack in 1990, Lamberta's suffered, especially in sales of bigger-ticket items like power tools. But it survived, and he said he is cautiously optimistic.
"We're not as worried as when they first came into the area," he said.
Frank Cosentino, the owner of County Line Hardware at 173 West Hills Road, two miles from the Home Depot, said his store is having its best year ever, and he is more concerned with a downturn in the economy than his newest competition.
"We're never going to match them for the variety and breadth of inventory," he said. "But we have a big edge in service. We're on a first-name basis with 90 percent of our customers."
But for many consumers, price is the bottom line. A recent check on some national brand items showed Home Depot prices as much as one-third lower than those at two local independent hardware stores. A 45-gallon Rubbermaid plastic trash can was $27.99 at the independent store and $18.92 at the Home Depot. A quart of Minwax stain was $12.99 at the mom and pop and $8.97 at the Home Depot. One hundred feet of Romex electrical wire, $16.89 at the independent, was $11.00 at the orange superstore.
There were seven hardware stores in downtown Huntington when Harry Bifulco opened Save-On Hardware at 169 New York Avenue 43 years ago. "We're the last of the Mohicans," said the 85-year-old nuts and bolts man. He worried about his son Harry and daughter-in-law Barbara, who will be running the family business, and he is unhappy about the behemoth they now must battle.
Mr. Bifulco said it was unfair that the town gave special treatment to the Home Depot. "They get a tax break and we get summonses for displaying garbage cans in our driveway," he said.
An air of melancholy came over Mr. Bifulco as his eyes made a quick inventory of his store. "We've watched it grow for all these years," he said. But he also said he expected his store to survive. "Do you know why?" he asked, and then pointed to a sign behind the counter that read: "They can't. We do."
 
THE EMPLOYEES
200 in Search Of a Solid Future
After three years at a health care company, where he was in charge of disposing bio-hazardous waste, Robert Antonelli was ready for a fresh start. When he drove by the Home Depot site and saw the big orange and white sign looming high above New York Avenue, he decided to fill out an application. "I was looking for a secure, stable company with growth opportunities," he said. "And it's close by."
The Home Depot will staff its Huntington Station location with about 200 people, most living within a short distance of the store, said its manager, Jim Duffy.
Mr. Antonelli, 32, lives in South Huntington a few miles south of his new job, which began in October. During the weeks preceding the opening he has been taking a course on the hundreds of products for sale throughout the seven aisles of the flooring department.
"You have to know a lot of things, like what kinds of adhesives to use and how to set different types of flooring on different surfaces," Mr. Antonelli said. He will also have to get used to the predawn calisthenics and company cheers that employees perform every morning.
"It's like stretching," said Felicia Tracey, a kitchen designer and transfer from the Commack store. "It gets you up and happy for the day."
Starting wages at the Home Depot are between $11 and $22 an hour, with stock options offered to every employee. Many longtime employees are rich from their stock purchases, and employee loyalty is high.
"I bleed orange," said Jim Devine, a flooring manager. He has been with company for 11 years, working previously in Paramus, N.J., and Freeport.
"Flooring is the most difficult department in the company, both physically and mentally," he said. "There is a lot of heavy merchandise and you have to be good at math."
Fiddling with a tape measure he pulled from the pouch of his orange apron, Mr. Antonelli said he is ready for the challenge. "I'm anxious to get started."
 
THE NEIGHBORS
Worries of Trucks Rattling the Dishes
From his front door, Martin Alvo has an unobstructed view of the new Home Depot garden department and the store's four loading docks. In a few days he will also see customer traffic, and that has him worried.
Horizon Drive, the street that trucks will use to enter the Home Depot, fronts the 22 town houses on Horizon Court and crosses a foot path used by students coming to and from Huntington High School a few hundred yards west of the store on Oakwood Road. Mr. Alvo said he fears a tragedy in the making. "I asked a town official, 'What are you going to do when a kid gets killed crossing the street?' and he told me, 'Kids get killed in traffic accidents every day.' "
As president of the Horizon Court Homeowners Association, Mr. Alvo has been monitoring the Home Depot's preparations for 15 months. He said he is glad to see a revival of the Big H shopping center, where the megastore is opening. "The place was dilapidated," he said. But he believes the planning was flawed.
"It was so easy for them to do it so nobody would be affected," Mr. Alvo said as he spread a large blueprint of the shopping center across his kitchen counter. Horizon Court homeowners are still waiting for the sound-abating fencing and the additional $40,000 of landscaping that was promised by shopping center officials, and is now part of the newly amended site plan.
The Home Depot will be open from 5 a.m. to midnight six days a week and 7 a.m. to midnight on Sundays, but the town has barred truck deliveries to the site from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. to limit noise. Another concession to the neighbors was to build curbs that will direct traffic leaving the store back north on Horizon Drive. Designed to prevent cars and trucks from cutting through the residential streets behind the center, it will also increase traffic in front of the homes on Horizon Court.
"I feel sorry for Marty. He's really got it bad," said Michael Herman, who lives on Panorama Drive behind the new store and has been a persistent thorn in the sides of several town officials. "They don't want to let everyone know what's going on."
Despite having the traffic forced back onto Horizon, Mr. Herman is anticipating more cars and trucks on the streets of his neighborhood. "New York Avenue is the only legitimate access to the shopping center. It should have all been thought out with a legitimate study," he said. "I'm not opposed to Home Depot. I'm opposed to the way they did it."
 
THE DEVELOPMENT
Jobs, Tax Revenues, An Economic Spark
"Prior to Home Depot it was becoming an eyesore and a blight," George Hoffman, a town spokesman, said of the Big H shopping center. "Now, along with Old Navy and the Outback Steakhouse, this will be a vibrant economic center for the area."
RD Management, a New York City company that owns more than 200 shopping centers across the country, bought a 50 percent stake in the Big H in the early 1980's and took full control in 1998, about the same time that the Home Depot was secured as an anchor tenant. A Kmart is being built next door and should open next year.
To grease the wheels, the Town of Huntington has given tax breaks. A town official confirmed that RD Management will receive a tax abatement that cuts the shopping center's $1 million property tax burden to $500,000 now, increasing $50,000 each year for the next 10 years.
The Huntington town supervisor, Frank Petrone, said the Big H's new tenants will be a great boost to the center, which he said had become rundown and "crime infested." A town committee has been interviewing engineering firms to consult on coordinated retail, commercial and residential development for the Huntington Station area.
"We have a jewel here," Mr. Petrone said. "We'd like to build an economic center around the railroad station. The revival of the center is going to open up other possibilities for the area."
(Similar hopes are pinned on the Home Depot that opened in Hempstead in June. "It's one of the best things that have happened to this village," said Mayor James Garner. An Old Navy is scheduled to open there in the spring and Stop and Shop is planning to put a store nearby.)
The Big H renaissance pleases longtime tenants. At the New China restaurant, the owner, Charlie Ching, recalled a few good years from his opening in 1986 until the early 1990's, when the Pathmark supermarket closed and Big H fell on hard times. "The shopping center was quiet," Mr. Ching said. "Everybody moved out. Now I'm so happy. Things are working out. I've been waiting for a long time."
Dennis Portillo, manager of Randazzo's Pizzeria, a Big H tenant since 1992, said: "Before we were having a hard time. Now it will be fantastic."
When he became manager of the Huntington Home Depot on Sept. 1, Mr. Duffy wasn't sure how it would all come together. "I was looking at four walls and a ceiling. It was a little daunting," he said. About five million units of merchandise, more than 40,000 different products, began arriving in mid-October, beginning with kitchen cabinets, faucets and floor tile. The stream of goods will continue to flow into the 114,000-square-foot store right up to the day before the opening, when the Christmas trees will be delivered.
Once the store opens, the manager estimated that 15 truckloads a day will be required to keep the shelves stocked.
"I expect us to be very busy," Mr. Duffy said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers, above, erecting a fence along Horizon Avenue for the new Home Depot; Michael Herman, inset, who objects to an anticipated rise in traffic; Charles and Laurette Prisco, owners of Lamberta's Hardware, who may see a decline in business because of the new superstore. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Town officials hope the Home Depot will spark an economic resurgence in the Huntington Station area.; Robert Antonelli stocking up in the flooring section of the new Home Depot in Huntington Station. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) (pg. 17)
 
Map of Huntington Station, L.I. highlighting site of Home Depot (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOME CENTERS (90%); HARDWARE STORES (87%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); RETAIL LUMBERYARDS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%); 

PERSON: LAURETTE PRISCO (87%); RICHARD BALSANO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



610 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2255 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Can Design In America Avoid The Style Trap?

BYLINE: By PHILIP NOBEL; Philip Nobel's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about the Airstream trailer.

 BODY:
DESIGN is the art that is hidden in plain sight. In the United States, those design disciplines not prefaced by "fashion" have long been the neglected stepchildren of culture and commerce. But unlike fashion, which trades in distant desire, the work of product designers, graphic designers and architects is all around us: sneakers and staplers, trivets and towers, Web sites and Weber grills.
By many measures, design has never been more popular in this country; new magazines line the shelves, design-intensive products turn shoppers' heads. But design has gained its current popularity by aping the devices of its sociable cousin, couture: guru stars, a rolling fashion cycle, collaboration with eager media. Following the success of Wallpaper, which pioneered the design-as-couture formula in the press, mainstream magazines are joining the design trades in overheated boosterism of the field. In March, Time announced "The Rebirth of Design," followed by the portentous sub-head, "Function Is Out, Form Is In"; the cover of the September Playboy featured a playmate cradling a baby blue iBook. 
 Are we witnessing the maturing of American design? Discriminating consumers have long bemoaned the sorry state of design here -- ignored by the majority; ghettoized in a few SoHo shrines -- and designers have often expressed envy for the European scene, where their colleagues are household names and even small towns have stores selling chic wares. America may finally be catching up. Today, shoppers outside of the urban bastions of high design can easily find a celebrated specimen to buy: a Zip drive, the VW Beetle, an OXO Good Grips spoon. Not since the 1950's and 60's, when an optimistic futurism transformed the look of everything from houses to housewares, has there been such a penetration of designerly design into everyday arenas.
At the same time, what exactly is meant by "good design" has never been more vague, and many designers, lacking firmer principles, aspire only to a place in the glamorized design economy. Is good design the perfection of an object for commercial success? For the glory of the designer? For beauty? For glamour? For use?
The first annual National Design Awards, announced in September at the White House and presented earlier this month at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, offer an occasion to examine these unpopular questions. They also beg others. The awards, organized by the Cooper-Hewitt, an arm of the Smithsonian, are timely but tentative. Frank Gehry, the master of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, won the lifetime achievement award; for its effective use of design as a weapon in the marketplace, Apple won the corporate achievement award. The exhibition designer Ralph Appelbaum, the inventor Paul MacCready and the landscape architect Lawrence Halprin were recognized with midcareer awards. A sixth category, American Originals, honored John Hejduk, the mystic architect who died in July, and Morris Lapidus, whose festive modern hotels have been beloved by the public but scorned by critics for most of his 98 years. The jury included the cerebral architect Daniel Libeskind and Martha Stewart, who arrived at the deliberations with a warm blueberry pie.
In some ways the current design vogue is a reprise of the 1980's, when every redone kitchen featured a trophy Alessi teapot. But just as our prosperity -- and decadence? -- has surpassed that era, the glory of design is now more complete. With a new intensity, pop culture has discovered that design can be glamorous and designers have discovered that glamour sells.
But glamour has its limits. Design, tied as it is to life through use, should have larger ambitions than to feed a market hungry for new images of affluence. What is lost when glamour reigns?
One place to look for answers is Lafayette Street in Lower Manhattan, a retail strip that has exploded with the city's economy. In 1994, the street was home to one store selling vintage modern furniture; now there are a dozen, making it a mile-long carnival of laminate amoebas at prices that would have shocked their designers.
The work of Charles and Ray Eames is a Lafayette Street staple. During and after World War II, the Eameses excelled at creating elegant products in the humble new materials of plywood and plastic. They did so with an eye on fashion, but glamour was always secondary to the quotidian problem at hand: a simple chair ($1,500 on Lafayette Street); a splint developed for the Navy ($500).
Much of what is hawked on Lafayette Street is from the family of products endorsed in the 1950's by the Museum of Modern Art's bluntly named Good Design program. That initiative hailed products -- Gerber steak knives, Aalto vases -- that toed the museum's sensual modernist line: clean forms to suggest clean living; no populist politics, please. What was "good" then could be determined by that dogma. But those were simpler times. Since the collapse of the modern movement and its mandarins, it has been an open field. The Postmodern style, too, is long gone, but its critique of modernism -- down with rigor, up with choice -- remains. Everything goes.
This could be a golden age. Designers of all types, with their powerful tools, can and do make everything the market will bear. But, freed from a dominant style, design is faced with the style trap: the limits imposed by glamour.
Nothing could be more American than to reward victory in the marketplace, and the last few years have seen some incredible victories: not just in the iMac, which saved Apple with its fruit-stripe colors, but in more modest products as well. The drugstore toothbrush rack has become a circus of ergonomic grips, flexing heads and prehensile gum-probes -- an entire retail sector transformed by design.
Function is not ignored in these modish redesigns -- of toothbrushes or tennis shoes or kitchen tools -- but they introduce products to a cycle that reduces its importance; when design is glamorized, it begins to solve problems of image first, and problems of use -- living -- second.
The classic Swingline staplers were redesigned last year in see-through iMac hues. The designs were a success; they were featured in the magazines and included in the Cooper-Hewitt's Design Triennial, a sister project to the National Design Awards. Now, having abandoned a design that had gone unchanged since the 1950's, designers will have to re-imagine the staplers every few years to keep their glamour alive. From the moment they hit the shelves, there was a countdown to the next style change: the exact mechanism that triggered the glories and failures of American automobile design, after cars began to be available in colors other than black.
Once in the cycle of forced design and redesign -- the style trap -- it can be hard to escape. Unless it achieves a new iconic status, a tall order in an accelerated market, a newly glamorized product can go from timeless to ephemeral, functional to fabulous, humble to heroic -- and then disappear. One such icon after another might succumb, not because of failed functionality or market appeal, but because it couldn't survive the transplant to the hothouse of prime time design.
To keep from being dazzled, designers need steadier principles, something more lasting than each season's shifting hemline height. They might look to an American tradition that lends itself to design: can-do, make-do problem solving. For every design project starts with a problem, even if it is just how to distinguish one product from the next on a shelf.
A few blocks east of Lafayette Street, in the kitchen supply shops along the Bowery, a collection of enduring American design is on permanent display. It's a world of self-effacing classics that intersect with fashion at their own pace: Revere Ware, Metro shelving, and all the homely accouterments of a Tuesday at the diner: the milk can with the tricky lid, fluted glass sugar dispensers, Pyrex bubble coffee pots.
The same spirit can be found on the Bowery's sidewalks -- and sidewalks all over the country -- in ad hoc, kit-of-parts lampposts. Or on the street: The UPS truck, cobbled from sheet metal, is a rolling testament to enduring design. Its style is accidental, not an image-conscious exercise in the latest mode: the result of solving a problem with the materials at hand.
The grid is not an American invention, but it's a strategy that flowered here, from facades to the mile-square divisions of the Midwest: a perfect market-driven makeshift that became a defining style. Like a skyscraper's steel cage or the standardized wood framing, it evolved to solve a problem -- how to build in America, where the land is vast, the materials are cheap and labor is scarce -- and it left its mark long after that problem was solved. IKEA, a Swedish import, has said it best. When it opened its first stores here in the mid-1990's, in a bid to become the Sears of the design economy, IKEA used this slogan: "It's a big country. Someone's got to furnish it."
This alternative course is much quieter, but more entrenched than design glamour, and as eccentrically homegrown as hot rod culture or jazz. It's a way of working that mints few marketable geniuses, but that hews close to the genius of American material culture: design that is market-driven but media averse.
ARCHITECTURE is still several generations ahead of the other design fields in deploying glamour at the national level, but it may not be profiting from that distinction. Its stars are genuine American celebrities -- Philip Johnson is in the glossies now pitching Absolut vodka -- and this prominence has raised awareness among Americans that architecture exists, that their fellow countrymen are involved in its making and that it can be good. Susan Yelavich, assistant director for public programs at the Cooper-Hewitt, said recently that "Frank Gehry is the sole figure who will change the fact that when you say the word design, people think jeans."
But there is another lesson in Mr. Gehry's work that has been obscured by the hype surrounding his celebrity. Not just that he worked hard, paid his dues and earned the right to indulge in a signature style. But also that, since 1978, when he reclad his own house in Santa Monica, Calif., with corrugated metal and chain link, his free-form designs have been grounded in an intuitive understanding of materials. His Fishdance restaurant in Kobe, Japan, known for the giant chain-link fish sculpture out front, is also a deep meditation on the states that copper can take near the sea. The Guggenheim in Bilbao might be revered less for its petals and lobes than for its innovative titanium skin.
Similarly, the great triumphs of American architecture are not formal -- the shapes that a media-conscious architect might make to get attention or keep it -- but integral to solving problems closely allied with materials and the market. The basic components of American construction, aluminum studs and gypsum wallboard and dropped ceilings (even vinyl siding) are ways to build a lot, cheaply, with expensive labor -- the pragmatic building blocks of a lasting, rooted style.
Those materials might be an obvious place to focus design intelligence, to move the practice forward, to meet life halfway with better buildings, to find purpose and eventually poetry, from the inside out. But, in a cautionary tale that other corners of the design world might heed, the lights of American architecture are engaged elsewhere: chasing glamour.
With everything possible but every form exhausted, rising theorists of a younger generation are designing projects based on seductive, vapid "blobs" -- the hot new shape for 2000. The whole arc of American building has come to this: selfish formalism born from the need to claim space in the fashion show of the design press.
That's fine for brassieres and boas, but shouldn't we ask more from our buildings, the most profound of which still aspire to a public trust? Or from our toasters and teapots and spoons, which might yet serve some private, daily need with quiet dignity? Utility, not vanity, should drive change in design; that's one of the things that distinguishes it from art.
It is interesting that just now, as all restraints save market logic and the temptations of glamour have fallen away, there is an effort to link American design with American Pragmatism, the philosophy that sought to formalize the show-me bedrock of American thought. The Museum of Modern Art recently held a conference, "Things in the Making: Contemporary Architecture and the Pragmist Imagination," that featured heated conversations between star architects, Peter Eisenman and Rem Koolhaas, and star Neo-Pragmatist philosophers, Richard Rorty and Cornell West.
Behind that program there was a hint of subversion: the suggestion that camera-shy Pragmatism, glamorized, might be an acceptably cool intellectual cover for the application of common sense. It could also point to a way around the style trap. Not by encouraging design that is counter to the whims of the market (that would be positively un-American), but by inspiring work that might also thrive in economic down times, when the demand for star dust may abate, but a toothbrush, a stapler and a roof over one's head will still be welcome conveniences. Then, one day, we might yet have that elusive thing: a design culture that reflects the way Americans think and live, not just the way they shop.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The UPS truck, cobbled from sheet metal, is a rolling testament to enduring design.; Toothbrushes like the Aquafresh Flex have help transform racks at the drugstore into a veritable circus of ergonomic grips, flexing heads and prehensile gum-probes.; A classic Swingline stapler was redesigned in see-through iMac hues. The new model was featured at the Cooper-Hewitt's Design Triennial. (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (87%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (79%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (79%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (79%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (79%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



611 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: LINCOLN CENTER;
An Internal Matter

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I agree with Bernard Holland that performers and audiences have been shortchanged by the acoustics and space configurations at Lincoln Center, but turning the complex into a classical Lincstrasse, a la Vienna, as he seems to suggest, won't solve the problem "Let's Rebuild the Sound, Too, Please," Nov. 19 . 
 Better acoustics could be gained by internal restructuring. This has been done elsewhere. Backstage space could be gained, for example, by removing the first 10 to 20 rows of seats and moving the stage forward -- a matter of engineering -- as appalling as the loss of seats might be to economics-minded administrators. Who would ante up the money for razing and rebuilding? Given the present high cost of attending opera and music performances, who would be able to afford tickets in this "new Age of Pericles" that Mr. Holland describes?
 
JANET I. WASSERMAN
Manhattan 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: BERNARD HOLLAND (86%); JANET I WASSERMAN MANHATTAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



612 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES;
Where Westchester and Harlem Meet

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS; E-Mail: Countylines@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN the parking lot, hard by the Hudson River, S.U.V.'s with every conceivable bell and whistle jockey for space with battered gypsy cabs. In the produce section, sugar cane and green plantains are heaped beside shitake mushrooms and edible flowers. At the cash registers, one customer pays with an American Express gold card and the next with food stamps.
This is Fairway at 133rd Street and 12th Avenue, a 35,000-square-foot market, cheaper and more spacious than its Upper West Side cousin, that is as much a social experiment as a grocery store. It is where Westchester County and Harlem meet. 
 Where else but on the subway do the region's most pampered suburbanites meet up with poor, nonwhite fellow New Yorkers? What else but Stilton, nova, baguettes and coffee beans from the world over would bring us to this desolate stretch under the elevated portion of Riverside Drive, shadowy even in daylight and home to bus garages, soda distributors and car detailers?
For those who live on the Hudson River side of the county and drive to work on the Saw Mill River Parkway, this Fairway is a solution to the grocery store woes described in this section a few weeks ago. Weekends it's mayhem, as Upper West Siders with cars join the Monday to Friday crowd, wise to the bargains compared with Zabar's, Citarella and even the original Fairway at Broadway and 74th Street. But on weekday evenings, the store belongs to Harlem families and Westchester commuters.
A quick detour off the West Side Highway at 125th Street leads to an ample parking lot once shared by urban fishermen and prostitutes and now secured by cyclone fencing and a security patrol. These clear wintry nights, the George Washington Bridge twinkles, red on the outbound, white on the inbound.
Whatever talk there once was about the danger of shopping here has been silenced by the Giuliani crime crusade. The only risk that remains is a fender-bender, as drivers play a polite game of "After you Alfonse, after you Gaston," at a tricky intersection, all the while dodging shopping carts.
The store opened in the waning days of 1995, amid a zoning hoo-ha that involved a massive retail space in a manufacturing zone. That dispute is long forgotten. It was always less interesting than the store's unique demographics.
Would shopping there, as a privileged professional, inspire the guilt I'd suffer on Caribbean vacations, passing through shanty-towns on the way to a hotel? Or would it be the pleasing mix-and-match that Manhattan had offered, before I chose to go to sleep to the crickets and wake to the birds?
Sometimes I get that guilty feeling in the rear of the store. Here the industrial racks of olive oil and fancy mustards give way to standard-issue grocery items like Pop Tarts and Campbell soup -- and acres of Goya products. This is the territory of single mothers, trailing noisy children who must come because there is no baby sitter. Their carts are piled high with economy-size packages of chicken wings and sugary cereal.
Cut to the cheese counter, the ecologically correct paper products, the botanical soaps and shampoos, the array of nuts, dried fruits and granolas. In the center of the store, the mothers and children are replaced by yuppie couples with his-and-her cell phones, pin-striped men with expensive shoes, women whose shopping for the holidays is leisurely because a nanny minds the kids.
But sometimes on the way to the Kitty Litter or the Pledge, I venture through the aisles of rice and beans. Or I pass the ham hocks while looking for the skinless and boneless chicken breasts, in the 38-degree meat room. Smiles pass easily between shoppers, who admire one another's children or rescue an item about to topple from someone else's shopping cart.
Ray Venezia, the store's general manager, says his mission is democratic. He points to Earth's Best organic baby food, a steal at 50 cents a jar, popular with mothers, regardless of ZIP code. He says that with Fairway prices, you don't have to be Jewish to want Hebrew National cold cuts or a gourmand to buy ground ostrich at $3.69 a pound.
But the real equalizer, Mr. Venezia says, is the scene around the open buckets of picholines, manzanillas, cornichons, sun-dried tomatoes and balsamic onions. Rich or poor, black or white, urban or suburban, we all sneak a snack when we think no one is looking.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); AMX (LSE) (58%); AMEXP (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); ZONING (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); COUNTIES (74%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (53%); 

PERSON: RAY VENEZIA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



613 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: Ecology Group Becomes Developer Of Hudson Site

BYLINE: By ROBERT WORTH

DATELINE: BEACON

 BODY:
THE abandoned waterfront of this old industrial town, on a grassy peninsula jutting into the Hudson, has spectacular 180-degree views of the river and the Hudson Highlands to the south. The owner of the land plans to develop it, and has drawn up an ambitious list of possible projects that includes a 150-room hotel, a restaurant, even some stores and private homes.
In many towns, the proposals would provoke angry protests from environmentalists. But in Beacon, the developer is an environmental group. 
 Scenic Hudson, based in Poughkeepsie, has been buying property in this struggling town of 14,000 for almost a decade, and now wants to help lead an economic renaissance by developing its premier piece of real estate on the Hudson.
"The waterfront was the lifeblood of the town in the 19th century, and we're hoping it will be the lifeblood again," said Steve Rosenberg, the group's director of land preservation.
The key to the group's unusual role is an effort to guide development in environmentally sensitive ways, rather than merely setting aside certain areas for preservation and letting sprawl overrun the rest, Mr. Rosenberg said. The waterfront project will not interfere with river views or harm the neighboring wetlands, and there will be a civic plaza and promenade to ensure public access to the river.
"For an environmental group to embrace growth and development is something that has been missing in our dialogue on land development for a long time," said John Nolon, the director of the land use law center at Pace University. "It is unprecedented, and one of those brilliant ideas that when it comes along, you say why hasn't somebody done this before."
The decision to develop the waterfront was not an easy one, said Ned Sullivan, Scenic Hudson's executive director. "The board decided it was no longer enough for environmental groups in general and Scenic Hudson in particular to just oppose bad development projects on the Hudson," he said. "It was time for us to proactively work with communities to demonstrate that positive waterfront development is possible."
To that end, Scenic Hudson has become partners with the Manhattan-based Dia Center for the Arts, which announced plans last year to move its collection of contemporary art -- now mostly in storage -- into a 300,000-square-foot abandoned paperboard factory just south and east of the waterfront by 2002.
Together, Dia and Scenic Hudson have worked with town and state officials on a plan to redevelop Beacon as a mecca for art lovers and tourists without damaging its natural beauty or the charm of its 19th-century mills and houses.
The town already has the Tallix Foundry, which has cast the works of many well-known contemporary sculptors. And one developer plans to build a 600-seat theater and museum in another abandoned factory building.
Scenic Hudson began buying property in Beacon, which is 60 miles north of Manhattan in Dutchess County, with more conventional environmental goals.
The group bought and set aside about 2,000 acres of forested land on Fishkill Ridge to the east of the city, including the 1,531-foot Mount Beacon, where on a clear day you can see the World Trade Center to the south and the Catskills to the northwest. It helped arrange the construction and improvement of various walking trails, including one that runs across the waterfront. And it set aside a 12-acre park at the mouth of Fishkill Creek.
But after it bought the waterfront site for $4 million in 1997, the group's leaders held several discussions with town officials and residents to ask them what they wanted to see there.
"We said to them, 'We don't need another park, we need a working waterfront,' " said Clara Lou Gould, who has been mayor of Beacon since 1990. "They, to their credit, listened to the people."
The group made plans to build a promenade, a fishing pier and a civic plaza on about 11 acres of the waterfront, and began seeking proposals for a mixed-use development on the rest of the property.
Like many cities along the Hudson, Beacon was badly in need of an economic boost after the slow loss of its manufacturing jobs and the departure of area companies like I.B.M. By the 1980's, many of the buildings on the city's Main Street were boarded up. One hotel was transformed into low-income housing, and the residents included some drug addicts. "Main Street was not a jolly place," Ms. Gould said.
At first, some residents and business owners were skeptical of Scenic Hudson's involvement, fearing it would simply take more land off the tax rolls, Ms. Gould said.
But the town's businesspeople soon recognized that Scenic Hudson's presence could help them by drawing more tourists, according to Sheila Wicklow, a co-owner of The Pie Shop and president of the Beacon Business Association.
Marc Capichioni grew up outside Poughkeepsie and is now president of Beacon Business Services, which provides temporary employees and computer services. He moved the company to Beacon six months ago. "Beacon always had a bad reputation, but it's turned itself around," he said. "Restoring the waterfront is a great idea and I think it's really helping to repopulate the area."
To many residents, Scenic Hudson's greatest contribution lay in helping broker the deal that brought the Dia Center for the Arts to Beacon.
Although the former factory was donated by its owner, International Paper, state and local economic development and arts programs are providing about $2.8 million of the $20 million cost of renovating the 70-year-old building, with the rest coming from donations.
The center expects 60,000 to 70,000 people a year to visit its collection, which includes a 430-foot-long series of paintings by Andy Warhol and a series of steel shapes weighing 150 tons by the artist Richard Serra, Michael Govan, the center's director, said.
That prospect has already begun to lure developers and Manhattan artists to the town.
"You see a lot more people dressed in black looking around for property," said Doug Berlin, a developer who moved here and began buying property himself three years ago.
One developer, Milton L. Ehrlich Inc., agreed to follow Dia to Beacon and do arts-related projects last year and has already become the town's largest landowner, spending a total of almost $10 million on 20 separate parcels, said Brian Quinn, the company's chief operations officer.
Ehrlich plans to build a 600-seat theater, studios for individual artists and an inn in one of its buildings, a 154,000-square-foot former hat and textile factory on Fishkill Creek. The performance space will be managed by a nonprofit group, as will the small art museum the company plans to build on part of its property.
Ehrlich has also proposed a plan for Scenic Hudson's waterfront property: a hotel and about 100,000 square feet of office buildings. The company, which has set up a separate operation in Beacon called Beacon Terminals Associates, is one of several companies whose proposals Scenic Hudson is now reviewing.
To developers who came earlier to Beacon, the arrival of Scenic Hudson and Dia has been a tremendous vindication, as well as a substantial boost.
When Ron Sauers moved to Beacon from Peekskill in 1989, the east end of Main Street was a row of burned-out brick buildings. He keeps a dated photograph of one block in his office to remind visitors how far the town has come. "When we started, the comments were, 'You're out of your mind,' " Mr. Sauers said. "But the beautiful thing was, it caught on."
Today, the east end of Main Street, where Mr. Sauers has his office, is an elegant row of beautifully restored brownstones, with an antique store, restaurants and a gift shop.
When he finished renovating several one-bedroom apartments over offices he had renovated on Main Street in the mid-1990's, Mr. Sauers said, he could not find anyone to rent them. Today, he has a waiting list.
Mr. Sauers and his partners plan to renovate an old mill at the eastern end of Main Street into a restaurant, inn and art gallery. Built in 1822, the long-abandoned mill sits on the edge of the fast-running Fishkill Creek, which once provided its power.
Standing inside the mill's circular interior, Mr. Sauers gazed up at its high ceiling and the mountains visible through its open windows, and conjured up the restaurant he will build here.
"The way I see it, Beacon is a puzzle, and Scenic Hudson and Dia provided the two most important pieces," he said. "As I say to other builders: we couldn't screw this up if we tried."
 
Unconventional Visions With the Sites to Match
 ALTHOUGH it is based in Manhattan, the Dia Center for the Arts maintains a 20-square-mile ranch in the desert of southwestern New Mexico to display Walter De Maria's "Lightning Field," which consists of 400 stainless steel poles arranged in a grid one mile long and one kilometer wide.
So it is hardly surprising that Dia chose an unconventional setting for its permanent collection: an abandoned factory in Beacon, a depressed Hudson River town 60 miles north of Manhattan.
Dia was established in 1974 by Philippa de Menil and Heiner Friedrich to collect the work of a small number of contemporary artists, and to commission art that would not otherwise be supported by traditional institutions, Michael Govan, the group's director, said. The group's name comes from the Greek word for "through," he added, expressing Dia's role as a conduit for art.
Dia's endowment is $26 million, and since 1995 it has raised $75 million from individuals and foundations, which will help pay the $20 million cost of renovating the building in Beacon, Amy Weisser, a spokeswoman for Dia, said.
Many of the artists Dia has supported, including Andy Warhol, Joseph Beuys, Donald Judd, Dan Flavin and Richard Serra, have had individual shows at Dia's Manhattan headquarters, but the center's permanent collection has never before been viewed in one place.
Mr. Govan first discovered the Beacon site in the early spring of 1998. He was flying up the Hudson in his private plane with a curator and an architect for an aerial view of a building Dia then owned on the river's west bank. "We flew up another 10 miles, and I saw an empty factory," he said.
The group was looking for sites for its permanent collection, and had considered other options, including a collaboration with Mass Moca in North Adams, Mass.
Two weeks later, Mr. Govan drove up to take a look and was sold immediately. "I've often said that we couldn't build a museum that was better suited if we started from scratch," he said. A number of Dia's artists, including Richard Serra and Robert Irwin, are equally enthusiastic and are helping design galleries in the building, he added.
The scale of the building was important, Mr. Govan said. It needed to be large enough to house some of the larger works in Dia's collection, including Andy Warhol's 430-foot-long series of paintings, which will be housed in its own separate 7,000-square-foot room.
The building's location on a magnificent stretch of the Hudson River, a few steps from both the Metro-North train station and Denning's Point State Park, was another attraction.
Dia is also bringing its artistic vision to the renovation of the waterfront that lies beyond its new museum. Dia and Scenic Hudson jointly commissioned George Trakas, a Manhattan-based environmental sculptor, to produce a survey and some proposed designs for the waterfront.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, an old factory in Beacon is being renovated to be the home of the Dia Center for the Arts. At left, the town of Beacon is coming back from economic hard times. At top, Margery D. Groten and Steve Rosenberg of Scenic Hudson, looking south along the Hudson River. (Photographs by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Children walking along railroad tracks near a waterfall, part of the Fishkill Creek in Beacon, above. A bow truss bridge, which is undergoing renovation, left. Buildings in the downtown area of Beacon, below, a struggling town of 14,000 in Dutchess County. (Photographs by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Map of New York highlighting the town of Beacon. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ECOLOGY GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); SCULPTURE (74%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); WETLANDS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%); PAPERBOARD (60%); PAPERBOARD MILLS (60%); 

PERSON: HUDSON HIGHLANDS (94%); CLARA LOU GOULD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



614 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
Parsing the Ethics Of a City's Culture

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
SO here we are, our waistlines thickened by Thanksgiving dinner, our heads fat with ballot counting and legal challenges. And here is Khoren Arisian, who wants New Yorkers to consider the ethics of the election process, instead of the technicalities, and how to address real issues like economic inequality.
Mr. Arisian, 68, a son of Armenian immigrants and a retired Unitarian minister, is the new senior leader of the 125-year-old New York Society for Ethical Culture. 
 Ethical Culture calls itself a humanistic religious and educational movement founded on the belief that moral growth is the basis of spiritual life. Rather than talking about God and dogma, followers see spiritual life as growing out of a search for values and ethics.
Mr. Arisian is a proud agnostic (with a divinity degree). Many of the society's members are agnostics or atheists. As might be expected, members are big on separation of church and state. In place of ritual, they involve themselves in discussions and action on social issues and community events, which can range from marches for prison reform to seminars on the plight of the homeless.
"I don't know how I can get people in the middle class involved," Mr. Arisian said the other day in his book-lined office, considering the challenge of his new position. "People seem turned inward these days."
Call it election fatigue. Or call it recount fatigue. But whatever it is, Mr. Arisian said the real issue is where we are as a nation, given the increasing divisions of region and class. Practically, Mr. Arisian wonders how the country and New Yorkers plan to combat problems like homelessness and the ever-widening gap between rich and poor. He says issues like abortion rights and the death penalty can be seen as moral and ethical problems as much as political ones. And he asks if there are questions that we do not want politicians to decide, given separation of church and state.
These are the kinds of issues he hopes the once-lively Ethical Culture Society, woefully quiet in recent years, can tweak New Yorkers to ponder.
Mr. Arisian is looking at the city and its role in shaping democracy with a fresh eye.
He comes here from his post as co-founder and executive director of the Humanist Center of Minneapolis and emeritus minister of the First Unitarian Society in that city. He sees a New York that is cleaner and richer than when he was last here 20 years ago as a member of the society's board and director of its now-defunct School of Adult Education. He also sees the homeless people living among the newly prosperous, and the working poor who deliver groceries to a comfortable middle class. The old problems of bad schools, slow trains and income inequality are still here, he said.
Both wealth and poverty are more blatant in New York. A few blocks from a line of limousines are homeless people selling old magazines and stuffed animals. More difficult to quantify is how attitudes have hardened against the poor in a city where so many are thriving. This can mean that people fail to see the suffering right before their eyes, or rationalize that there must be some explanation that does not implicate them or society. Laziness? Drug addiction?
"The quest for money has taken over," Mr. Arisian said. "More here than anywhere else."
New York's subway series mentality -- the belief that everything begins and ends here -- can make it a difficult city to engage, Mr. Arisian said.
On the one hand, the city is more liberal, secular and culturally diverse than the rest of the country. It is, he said, the only place where the seemingly oxymoronic concept of a secular religion could have emerged.
On the other hand, because the city is so self-contained, New Yorkers can feel isolated from issues like the rise of the conservative right.
The society had its heyday in the 60's and 70's, when New Yorkers by the hundreds turned up at Ethical Culture events to talk about civil rights, the Vietnam War and impeaching Richard Nixon. There were about 1,500 members then, compared with about 350 now. In its 125 years, the society helped establish the first free kindergarten in the city and the first settlement house in the country, and it helped found organizations that became the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Legal Aid Society.
Most recently, the society supported a march by restaurant workers. Most were immigrants who demanded better wages and working conditions.
Mr. Arisian said he had a sense of urgency about restoring some of the society's luster. He will begin, he said, by posing the hard questions: the meaning of democracy, the place of religion in politics and what an ethical society owes the least among us.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ETHICAL CULTURE SOCIETY (82%); NEW YORK SOCIETY (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: ETHICAL CULTURE SOCIETY (82%); NEW YORK SOCIETY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ETHICS (92%); RELIGION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); THANKSGIVING (73%); CALENDARS (68%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (66%); PRISONS (52%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



615 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Program;
Renovating Bronx Homes

 BODY:
New York City officials and community leaders formally opened a low- and moderate-income building last week at 2001 University Avenue in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx. The building, the largest of six being rehabilitated in the immediate area, was formerly known as a haven for drug dealers. It contains 74 apartments ranging from studios to three-bedroom units.
The rehabilitation of the city-owned buildings is taking place under the Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Program. Administered by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development with the aid of the New York City Housing Partnership, the program aims to return city-foreclosed properties to private ownership. The University Avenue building is to be managed by Peter Magistro of Bronx Pro Real Estate. Tenants are subject to limitations on income, which may not exceed $56,200 a year. 
 "Returning this building to responsible local management will add to community redevelopment, a goal we share with the residents of Morris Heights," said Jerilyn Perine, the city's housing commissioner.
The redevelopment cluster includes buildings at 1978 University Avenue, 1691 Davidson Avenue, 1668 Davidson Avenue, 1696 Nelson Avenue and 30 Buchanan Place. When completed next fall, the project will provide a total of 174 new units of housing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CITIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (69%); 

PERSON: ESTELLE MORRIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



616 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 12; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Diana Schlesinger, Robert Nassau

 BODY:
Diana Laurel Schlesinger, the director of education at the Museum of American Folk Art in New York, and Robert Leon Nassau, a filmmaker, are to be married today. Rabbi David Adelson is to officiate at a house owned by the bridegroom's parents, Adrienne and Stephen Nassau, in Sherwood, Md.
Ms. Schlesinger, 31, is keeping her name. A graduate of Oberlin College, she received a master's degree in art from the University of Wisconsin and another in museum education from the Bank Street College of Education. 
 She is the daughter of Beverly and Murry Schlesinger of New York. The bride's father retired as an assistant principal of the Booker T. Washington School in New York. Her mother is a lawyer in New York for a legal services plan run by District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
Mr. Nassau, 28, has produced and edited a documentary about teenage girls with emotional or drug and alcohol problems who bicycled across the Continental Divide. His mother retired as a senior project manager and financial analyst for the World Bank in Washington. His father is a partner in O'Toole, Rothwell, Nassau & Steinbach, a Washington law firm.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON LAW FIRM LLC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); LAWYERS (69%); COUNTIES (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: SCHLESINGER, DIANA LAUREL; NASSAU, ROBERT LEON ROBERT LEON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



617 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3920 words

HEADLINE: At Crossroads, a Dramatic Pause

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
THEATER season is in full swing here the State Theater's flashing marquee lists a packed schedule of music, dance and drama. Next door, the George Street Playhouse is finishing up its season-opening drama and getting ready for a musical.
But the yellow brick building at the end of the block is silent, except for the two-story banner that flaps in the wind, proclaiming Crossroads Theater's 1999 Tony Award for best regional theater. Inside the darkened lobby, dried leaves dance across the black marble floor, among the only things to have entered the theater since it closed its doors for the season at the end of September. The theater's 310 green felt seats remain flipped up, the director's booth strewn with posters from the theater's glory days. 
 With close to $2 million in debt, a halt in financing from public and private sources, internal disarray and an increasingly wary public, the board of trustees announced on Sept. 30 that Crossroads -- which many consider the country's premier African-American theater -- would not open for the 2000-2001 season in an effort to save it from extinction.
As difficult as the decision was, most now say it was inevitable. Indeed, many were surprised it did not happen sooner, since the theater was chronically in debt and notorious for operating in a perpetual crisis mode, particularly in the last 18 months. And yet, because of the theater's award-winning productions and unfailing commitment to original works, Crossroads has garnered not only the highest praise but also a wide network of support that over the years has been willing to extend resources and patience as the theater has tried to right itself again and again.
With no staff and an entirely new board, Crossroads hopes to ride a wave of sentimental outpouring and community goodwill to resurrect itself in time to put on another season next fall. At issue is $835,000 in state grants that are still being withheld, and a usually charitable community that is taking a wait-and-see attitude before opening its pockets to a theater that was once the envy of all other arts organizations for the lavish financial support it received.
"It was always a struggle," said Ricardo Khan, the co-founder and former artistic director of the Crossroads. "The main problem was working toward a $5 million vision but with only two or three million in cash."
To be sure, many circumstances contributed to Crossroads' downward spiral. Some -- like the growing pains of a successful company, or the inevitable conflict between artistic integrity and the bottom line -- are issues that face many arts organizations. But in this case, the challenges at times shifted from the philosophical to the personal, with egos and divided loyalties often getting in the way of good management and clear decision-making. Other factors, more closely related to the theater's sources of money, raised larger issues about the public's financing of the arts.
While some reasons for the failure of Crossroads to stand on its own are as clear as the voices in a Rogers and Hammerstein musical, others are as murky as the plot of a Pinter play. Indeed, the New Jersey State Council on the Arts more often than not tried to impede a reporter's examination of the theater's troubled history. Nina Stack, the council's communications director, denied repeated requests for grant applications, business plans and even independent audits of the theater.
From its start in 1978, Crossroads was a theater of great ambition, gracing its stage with such stars as Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee, Avery Brooks, Leslie Uggams and Anna Deveare Smith. It introduced works by such award-winning playrights as George C. Wolfe, Rita Dove, Leslie Lee and Ntozake Shange. The goal was always to provide a level of art otherwise unavailable in minority-based theater. Unfortunately, the lofty ambition was not always matched by the resources to back it up.
When Mr. Khan and his co-founder, L. Kenneth Richardson, hit upon the idea for Crossroads soon after graduating from the Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers, the $2 million or $3 million budget that they would eventually work with seemed like a lot of money. Tired of being offered parts as pimps, drug dealers or convicts, the two sat at St. John's Restaurant here one afternoon and scratched out their mission statement on a napkin: "to create a professional environment for artists in black theater to develop and practice their craft" and to "present positive and honest images of who we are as African-Americans."
Under the sponsorship of the George Street Playhouse, Mr. Khan applied for and received a $225,000 federal grant to get started. They found an old sewing factory on Memorial Parkway in a somewhat seedy neighborhood that -- despite a daunting 30-step climb to enter and a Y-beam at center stage that had to be incorporated into every set -- provided a perfect home for the company for the next 13 years.
Within three years, Crossroads was staging original works, and over the years the 132-seat theater would present many world premieres, including Mr. Wolfe's "The Colored Museum," a play Mr. Richardson directed in 1986 that put Crossroads on the national map. With the success of "The Colored Museum," and the urging of the city to find a new home, Mr. Khan and Mr. Richardson began planning a capital campaign to raise funds for a larger theater in New Brunswick's Cultural Center.
But by the time ground was broken at the new Livingston Avenue site in late 1989, Mr. Richardson was already long gone from the company, forced out by the board in a departure that was painful to Mr. Khan and signaling the first pin-prick in the balloon. Mr. Khan and others close to the theater still decline to discuss the personal problems that led to Mr. Richardson's ouster.
Despite this setback, the late 80's was what Mr. Khan now calls "the golden era," when Crossroads introduced plays like Leslie Lee's "Black Eagles," about the Tuskeegee Airmen of World War II, which was later performed for President George Bush at Ford's Theater in Washington, and Mbongeni Ngema's "Sheila's Day," a collaborative effort with black South African and African-American actresses that went on to tour in South Africa.
With $1.5 million from the City of New Brunswick and hundreds of thousands more in corporate and private donations, building the new $4 million theater marched toward completion in 1991. That summer, a call came in from Bill Cosby, who offered to perform a series of benefit shows in October to provide Crossroads with a financial cushion during its first year at the new site. His appearances, sponsored by AT&T -- one show at Crossroads and four at the State Theater -- were a thrilling end to a weeklong celebration that included a parade through downtown, a school holiday and the preparation of a time capsule to be placed in the theater lobby.
But even though Mr. Cosby's performances allowed Crossroads to cut back that season from five plays to four -- thus saving tens of thousands in production costs -- it wasn't long before the theater found itself in financial straits. The new four-story building brought about $200,000 a year in added expenses, including the annual $65,000 rent to be paid to the Cultural Center. A larger company also meant a larger staff, higher salaries and new contractual obligations with the actors' union, which until then had gone easy on the fledgling equity company.
"In the old theater, we had a developmental contract with the union," said Mr. Khan. "They gave us certain concessions. Once we moved to the new theater, we were now the enemy, part of the collective bargaining against the union."
In addition, a recession gripped the state in 1991, and politicians halved the art council's budget. Subsequently, the state financing of all arts organizations supported by the council was trimmed. At Crossroads, the state grant in 1991 went to $302,000 from $604,000, remaining at that level for several years.
Many say the double whammy of unanticipated expenses together with the cut in state financing sent the Crossroads on the downward financial spiral from which it never recovered.
"They lost a huge amount of money from the state, and hadn't yet figured out what they needed to operate in the new space," said Keryl McCord, who would inherit the organization's financial woes when she took over as the theater's managing director in 1997. "It was like they just got a new boat, they haven't even gotten their sea legs yet, and all of a sudden, they've got 'The Perfect Storm.' "
A year after the move, the theater was already about $600,000 in debt; by the mid-1990's, that figure climbed to $1.7 million, close to the level it is today. In 1995, a stabilization campaign -- a combination of fund-raising along with the generosity of banks and vendors willing to excuse some of the debt -- reduced the burden by almost half, to $950,000.
But it was not long before the debt started creeping up again. Ms. McCord, who had previously served with the National Endowment of the Arts and the League of Chicago Theaters, said she was brought in by Mr. Khan in 1997 "to try to turn this huge ship around."
Today, she says she was shocked by what she found -- a $1 million debt, which included an outstanding $200,000 bank loan, $300,000 the theater had drawn down from its cash reserve endowment that had never been paid back, vendors' bills that were more than 90 days past due, as well as other surprisingly lax financial practices.
"In my entire career, I had never worked in a place where I had the ability to sign a check to any amount with no second signature required," said Ms. McCord, who shared that privilege with Mr. Khan.
Peter Harvey, a Morristown lawyer who was president of Crossroads' board of trustees from 1997 to 1999, also questioned many decisions that affected the theater's finances, from the plays that were chosen to how the theater was being marketed.
"It was always an issue of 'Will the financial resources drive the art, or will the art drive the money?' " said Mr. Harvey. "There has to be a balance between artistic merit and audience appeal. We had plays that were very profitable, but there were also years when various plays lost a lot of money. When you're so deeply in debt, you can't afford to have half your shows be losers."
Moreover, he questioned why the box office was not open during performances to sell tickets to future shows, and why audiences were not solicited at the end of a season to renew their subscriptions.
Yet once again, help was on the way. In 1996, Crossroads had been accepted into a grant and loan program called the Working Capital Fund for Minority Cultural Institutions. Financed by the Ford Foundation, which had been a longtime supporter of Crossroads, the Working Capital Fund was designed to create long-term financial stability for troubled minority arts organizations by teaching them how to manage their resources better. Over the next four years, the fund was to provide Crossroads with $220,000 in grants and $696,000 in loans, plus the expertise to develop a business plan to erase the theater's debt in five years.
The new business plan called for Crossroads to reduce its season from five plays to four, re-allocate its staff to focus more on marketing and sales personnel and to develop plays that realistically fit the budget. While the plan was viewed by some as the theater's best chance to get back on its feet, others saw it as a crass business move designed to wrest artistic control from the creative people on the staff. Not surprisingly, it got personal and it got ugly and it got there fast.
"There was a struggle over commitment to the plan," said Mr. Harvey. "It required that you make some very hard choices about the product -- the art -- and personnel. Some people were unable or unwilling to do that because of loss of control, weakening of power and egos."
Mr. Khan said the plan simply "didn't work," citing a lack of "synergy between the board, the production staff and the management staff."
"One of the decisions in the plan was to clean house, to professionalize our administration," he said. "On the one hand, you want to have skilled, trained people. No problem. But on the other side, you had people who loved the theater, who had been with us for 6 or 10 or 13 years, being replaced. Maybe this person didn't quite have the experience, but they worked hard. Many people worried that we were throwing the baby out with the bath water."
Mr. Khan put it this way: "We don't mind a team coming in and changing things, as long as they did a better job than we did. But I never saw that happen."
Yet while internal conflict raged, people outside the theater were optimistic about the business plan as well as the presence of Ms. McCord as business manager. The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation -- which over the years had provided a total of $1.07 million to support Crossroads' season and its Genesis Festival for new plays -- in 1998 directed its $100,000 grant toward implementation of the business plan.
In a letter to the theater, the Dodge Foundation wrote: "Crossroads Theater is in a new place, and much of this has to do with Keryl McCord, who brings leadership to your team in taking the company back to its bare walls."
In addition, the PNC Bank, which had also been a longtime supporter of Crossroads, saw this as a possible turning point and provided capital and debt relief totaling close to $200,000 to help the theater over its financial hurdles.
"They were struggling," said Preston Pinkett, senior vice president of PNC's development bank. "There was very little in terms of financials, and we realized it would be difficult. But it was important to New Jersey, and we wanted to be of assistance. They had a plan, and we had a lot of faith in them and said, 'We'll do what we can to help.' "
Yet while a fresh flow of money was pledged to the theater, there were more ominous undercurrents offstage. In October 1998, the theater's founder, Mr. Khan, told the board he wanted to begin planning for his succession and requested a year's sabbatical, which would begin in late 1999.
"I was burned out and exhausted by 20 years at this, and I honestly did not know the answers anymore," he said recently. "With the tensions between the old staff and the new staff, I felt the company could find its way better without me in the middle."
Most of the staff members were not told of Mr. Khan's pending departure until January 1999, which predictably set into motion a period of anxiety. "Because we didn't have a plan in place, people started to panic," he said. "Everyone was scrambling for whatever they had. Uncertainty affected everything."
Through the spring of 1999, the discord between the business staff and the production staff grew worse, until it came to a head when the door to the business office was kicked in and the furniture was vandalized. In April, Ms. McCord resigned and took a job as vice president at the African Grove Institute, a research and development organization for black theaters. "I felt there was no way I could be as effective as I wanted to be," Ms. McCord said in a recent interview. "The company has a history of art first and my belief is not that art is second, but that you have to manage your resources. There were tough financial decisions that had to be made, and the company wasn't willing to bite the bullet."
At a board meeting a few weeks after Ms. McCord left, more troubling financial news surfaced: $9,000 in bank overdraft charges had accrued, leading the board's controller to institute a new system requiring two or three signatures, depending on the amount of the check. At the same meeting, the board also challenged Mr. Khan's request for a sabbatical in which he would continue to earn his $75,000 annual salary, and it refused to sign off on the 1999-2000 production season without a budget for the shows.
"I declined to consider the matter before we had the anticipated cost of the shows and a projection of the revenues coming from them," said Mr. Harvey, the board president. "It was paramount to act consistent with the business plan; otherwise, you're approving a season in the dark."
Anticipating trouble, some board members who had not attended several previous meetings were urged to show up, and by the end of the session, one of them, Dale Caldwell, was elected to replace Mr. Harvey as board president, leading Mr. Harvey and two other board members to resign.
But like so many other times in Crossroads' history of high-wire acts, the theater's art grabbed the spotlight, placing its financial woes temporarily in the shadows. Its production of Charles Bevel's "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues" would be the theater's first play to move to Broadway in April, and on June 6, Crossroads Theater would make history as the first black theater to receive a Tony Award for outstanding regional theater in America.
The theater's staff, of course, hoped that the Tony Award would help attract new donors and new theatergoers. But because of its severe financial problems and personal discord, the theater was unable to capitalize on its achievement. In July, the Dodge Foundation said its usual $100,000 annual grant to Crossroads -- money the company had been counting on to promote the new season -- would not be forthcoming.
"Here we are with this Tony Award, but we have no money to market it," Mr. Khan said. "For the first time, we had no brochure for the upcoming season."
Janet Rodriguez, program officer for the Dodge Foundation, says today that her organization could not, in good faith, continue to pump money into the troubled organization.
"Between the deficit and the business manager leaving and the flurry of resignations from the board, we couldn't get behind the theater," Ms. Rodriguez said.
As Mr. Pinkett of PNC Bank put it, "That was the first kid screaming that the emperor was without clothes." His institution soon followed suit.
"We became less comfortable that things would work out," he said, "so we sought to remove ourselves from the situation and asked to have the loan returned in full."
Despite Crossroads' report of July 1999 to the state arts council that "the new board president is committed to the business plan, and has vowed to work closely with the other board members and the staff to reach all of the theater's financial goals," the debt continued to grow and the business plan developed with the Working Capital Fund, for all intents and purposes, was shelved. In fact, the theater still owes the fund $331,000 of the $696,000 that it borrowed.
Emmett Carson, president of the group that administers the Working Capital Fund, said the instability of Crossroads prevented the business plan from being viable. "They certainly didn't have the success we would have liked to have seen and they would have liked to have seen," Mr. Carson said. "They didn't get as much out of it as others did."
As summer turned to fall, Crossroads struggled to mount a new season, while keeping publicly quiet about Mr. Khan's imminent departure. Trying to cut corners on production expenses and save money, the staff delayed delivery of costumes for the musical "Play On!" so the first six performances had to be canceled. Then, midway into the run, the play's star, Stephanie Mills, refused to go onstage because of a disagreement over stockings. Because the theater could not even afford understudies, the performance was canceled.
In early December, Crossroads called a news conference to make two major announcements. On a hopeful note, it spoke of plans to consolidate some debt with a $500,000 loan from New Millenium Bank of New Brunswick, backed by a $250,000 guarantee from the New Jersey Redevelopment Authority. But it also disclosed publicly what the theater had been grappling with for more than a year: at the end of the month, Mr. Khan was to begin a yearlong sabbatical (during which he would continue to receive his salary, until the theater closed).
The next series of blows came the following spring -- the theater had begun missing payments on the new loan and the anticipated $335,000 from the New Jersey State Council on the Arts became uncertain.
Over the years, the council had given Crossroads close to $5 million. But by July -- after a less than satisfactory response to its request for more information on the theater's 2001 grant application -- the council did not include Crossroads in its $19 million distribution to arts organizations. After a consultant brought in by the secretary of state took one look at the troubles at Crossroads, another $500,000 in emergency state financing that had been approved by Governor Whitman was also withheld.
So while subscribers continued to send in money for the 2000-2001 season, theater personnel tried to piece together a plan that would allow them to continue despite what was now a $1.7 million debt. Finally, on Sept. 30, the board decided to cancel the season, and the entire staff was let go. As an exclamation point, Mr. Caldwell, who had been board president for little more than a year, announced his resignation the same day, citing personal reasons.
"'Everybody was trying everything possible to put on a traditional season," he said, "but to put on another season would have eliminated any credibility the board would have with funders and would have closed down the theater completely."
In recent weeks, the new board, under the leadership of a temporary president, Rhinold Lamar Ponder, has been scrambling once again, this time to meet the arts council's latest deadline for more information, including the 1999 audit. By last week, Mr. Ponder said that "most of the documents requested by the arts council have been submitted."
The board has also reorganized the theater's business structure, formed a search committee for a new artistic director and begun looking at ways of reducing the debt -- which with mounting interest is close to $2 million. In addition to the money owed to Working Capital Fund and New Millenium Bank, Crossroads owes vendors more than $400,000 and the Internal Revenue Service about $200,000 in unpaid taxes.
In the meantime, the theater's longtime sponsors are waiting to see what the state does before lending financial support again.
"Because they're in New Brunswick, we always felt a certain responsibility to help them," said Michael Bzdak, director of corporate contributions for Johnson & Johnson, which over the years has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to Crossroads. "Right now we just want to get an accurate picture of what their financial situation is. There are a lot of people out there who want to help."
But some believe Crossroads' heavy reliance on government, corporate and foundation grants might have kept the theater from learning to better manage its finances. As Mr. Carson at Working Capital Fund said, "organizations cannot be viable long-term if their primary support is from grant dollars."
Mr. Khan, who these days is looking for work, admits: "If we'd never had grants, we'd be a different company. As we grew, we became accustomed to grants and people saying, 'We want to help.' The new building was built for us not because we were a mediocre company but because we were an excellent company.
"Sure, it would be easier for us to do 'Hello Dolly,' absolutely," he added. "But we wouldn't be serving our audience."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: L. Kenneth Richardson, left, and Ricardo Khan, shown in 1985 at the original theater, started Crossroads to supply black actors with roles beyond drug dealers and pimps. (Larry C. Morris/The New York Times)(pg. 13); Ricardo Khan, above, a co-founder and former artistic director of Crossroads Theater, was granted a sabbatical late last year and is now looking for work. In late September, the board of trustees canceled the entire season. The board, with a new, temporary president, Rhinold Lamar Ponder, top with back to camera, has been working to reorganize the theater's business structure. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times); (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 12); The 310 seats in the Crossroads Theater in New Brunswick are empty since the theater, nearly $2 million in debt and with financing sources drying up, closed its doors for the season in late September. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER (91%); DANCE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); CLOSINGS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); CHARITIES (68%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: RICARDO KHAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



618 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
A Free Trade Battle, by the Turnpike

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

 BODY:
A free trade zone is an area most associated with faraway places like the Panama Canal Zone, or at least an airport shopping concourse. But there have long been free trade zones in New Jersey, and a request for a new one along the turnpike has angered local businesses.
The company behind the application to the State Commerce and Economic Growth Commission, the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation, worked with the state to open the first free trade zone in New Jersey more than 20 years ago. The Rockefeller group is now the administrator (the state actually owns the license) for the Mount Olive Zone, a 684-acre development in Morris County and it wants another one in Cranbury, near Exit 8 on the turnpike. 
 Eugene A. Preston, a vice president with the Rockefeller Group, said the company applied to open an extension of its free trade zone in Cranbury because it was almost out of room for light industrial space and distribution space in the Mount Olive zone. He said Rockefeller planned to purchase 150 acres of a 300-acre parcel owned by the Carter Wallace Corporation. The proposed Free Trade Zone would include the 150-acre Carter Wallace land and the 150 acres developed by Rockefeller.
When Charles Klatskin, a longtime real estate developer and a partner in the Forsgate Industrial Complex, learned that the state had asked the federal government to establish a free trade zone near his own commercial warehouse, he was alarmed.
A free trade zone provides such benefits as decreased or delayed customs fees to companies, making it attractive to importers or to manufacturers that work with foreign-made components.
Worried that the zone could lure away their tenants, Mr. Klatskin and other landlords in the business district started a letter-writing campaign to derail the application, which he called "an artificial competitive advantage" for a newcomer to the area.
"I don't think the state realized what they were doing," Mr. Klatskin said. "It was completely an oversight where they were creating favoritism."
The opposition seems to have taken the State Commerce Commission by surprise. Used to viewing foreign trade zones as a positive if arcane boost to New Jersey's import businesses, the commission had sent the application to the federal Department of Commerce without consulting business owners in Cranbury. Last week, responding to letters from Mr. Klatskin and other landlords as well as from state and local politicians, the Commerce Commission asked the federal government to delay the application until it had the chance to review the opponents' positions. The state has received an extension of its application until early December.
"At the time of the application, we were not aware of this type of concern," said Charles E. Hance, the commission's chief executive. "We would like to figure a way this can be done without causing any damage to local businesses."
Mr. Preston said his company planned to build four structures on the site, which could be used for light manufacturing or shipping. He said the expansion was designed to attract new businesses to the state, and said it would be difficult to take tenants away from other landlords because of the way the trade zone works.
"It is not our intention to take tenants from owners that are down there already," he said.
Mr. Preston said nearby businesses could apply to the federal government as a formality, but mainly to the state, which is actually is the licenseholder of the trade zone, for permission to be included in the plan. He said the neighboring businesses would then have the same benefits as the businesses on the 300-acre parcel. The businesses would have to pay administrative costs, such as the application fee for the free trade zone.
"Any company that can use the free trade zone would be able to apply for a subzone," he said.
Foreign trade zones were established by Congress in the 1930's to help American companies compete with overseas firms. There are several ways companies can benefit from the zones, mainly from decreased customs taxes. For example, if a manufacturer in the zone imports parts to make a finished product, the company pays customs fees based on the finished goods rather than the individual components. These fees are usually considerably lower than the duties on parts. Also, companies do not have to pay customs duties until the imported goods enter the United States market, which means that if the goods are shipped from the zone to another foreign country, the company pays no customs fees at all.
There are 240 free trade zones in the country, five of which are in New Jersey. Typically, the zones are controlled by state or local government; sometimes authorities like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey apply for them. The zone closest to Cranbury is at the Mercer County Airport in Ewing, and officials there have told the federal Commerce Department they would not oppose the Cranbury application
Both sides of the fight in Cranbury have political support. Opponents of the zone point to letters written to federal commerce officials by local politicians from neighboring towns and by state politicians. Joseph Azzolina, chairman of the Assembly commerce committee and a Republican from Middletown, wrote opposing the zone "unless it is expanded to include existing businesses in the area."
Supporters have their own letters. Representative Rush Holt and Alan Danser, the mayor of Cranbury, both wrote the federal Commerce Department in favor of the project, which Mr. Holt said would help "the retention of existing industries and the attraction of new industries into the Middlesex County area."
Harvey Moskowitz, the Cranbury town planner, said the town was treating the project like any other large business development. The area of town, on the eastern side of Cranbury, is zoned for light industrial use and the project meets requirements for zoning and land development, he said.
The section of Cranbury clustered around Exit 8A of the Turnpike has been a hot development area because it is relatively flat and well drained and offers easy access to New York and Philadelphia. Mr. Moskowitz said most of the available land in the area had already been developed or is owned by development companies. "The 8A area has largely been played out in terms of available land," he said.
Mr. Moskowitz said the question of whether a free trade zone would affect existing businesses was not something the town planners could consider when deciding whether to grant a permit. He said businesses typically opposed any new development if it posed a threat of new competition.
"Every time a new building comes on line, that is a concern of the existing owners," he said. "The question of whether or not it is going to take business away is not something we can consider."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eugene Preston of the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation, which operates in a free trade zone in Mount Olive, above, wants to extend the designation to a property in Cranbury. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER GROUP DEVELOPMENT CORP (84%); STATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX INCENTIVES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); POLITICS (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (67%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (58%); 

PERSON: CHARLES KLATSKIN (71%); EUGENE A PRESTON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



619 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS;
What Do You Call the, Uh . . . ?

BYLINE: By SUSAN HODARA

 BODY:
WHEN Gabe Hakvaag was a graduate student in Boston a decade ago, he supported himself by what he called "nannying," working for a couple with a 6-year-old son. It was, he acknowledged, an unorthodox job for a 25-year-old man, and the arrangement was equally unprecedented for his employers, who never quite knew what to call him.
"When they introduced me," said Mr. Hakvaag, a theater director who lives in Inwood, "they'd say: 'This is Gabe. He helps around.' I'd have to interject, 'No, I'm the nanny.' " 
 As baby boomers settle into middle age, a language problem of the moment is not how to refer to a live-in boyfriend or a gay partner but what to call the person who cares for the children. The options are numerous, each with its own connotations: the teenage baby sitter, the Swedish au pair, the trusted housekeeper, the energetic mother's helper, the buttoned-up governess, and, most recently, the beloved nanny.
Increasingly, the term has come into wider use, especially in New York. A search of the archives of The New York Times revealed a significant increase in occurrences, from 11 in 1980 to 175 in 1999. Classified ads in The Irish Echo, a weekly newspaper that is a major source of information for New Yorkers seeking child care and child care positions, promise "the best nanny in the world," an assortment of "loving, reliable" nannies, "loyal' and "honest" nannies and a host of "wonderful" nannies.
The growing popularity of the term reveals a great deal about changing attitudes toward child care, both the people who use it and those who provide it.
The word goes back to 19th-century England, where Mr. Hakvaag would have been an unlikely candidate for the job. There, a nanny was invariably a woman, the Mary Poppins of our shared consciousness, who lived with the family and cared for the children. The term evokes a gamut of associations, drawn from English royalty and the memorable public television series "Upstairs, Downstairs."
"The word nanny is very English," said Helen Freedman, founder and editor of Big Apple Parent, a New York monthly newspaper. "It connotes a tradition and a level of professionalism that just doesn't exist in this country. There, if your daughter tells you, 'I want to be a nanny,' you'd be pleased. She'd enroll in a nanny school and get specialized training."
But starting in the mid-80's, several social and economic forces came together to make the word increasingly popular -- in some cases, almost required -- among New York families.
"First, more college-educated women were living in the city and working in full-time, professional jobs," said Denyse Kapelus, founder and director of Professional Nannies Institute, established in 1986 and now one of the leading child-care referral agencies in New York. "As they started families, they became very serious about what they called their caregiver, and 'baby sitter' sounded too generic, suggesting that anyone at all could care for their child. 'Nanny' signified a more professional, permanent and trained person."
Perhaps in response there was a surge in the number of nanny schools. A dash of elitism fueled the trend.
"These often high-profile working mothers needed to find a term that didn't sound like they were leaving their children with a custodial caregiver," Ms. Kapelus said. "They wanted a word that reflected a different kind of status.
Robin Kellner, founder of Robin Kellner Agency, a Manhattan agency that was established in 1986 as a nanny placement firm and now offers a broader range of services, added: "The term nanny is a more professional term for child care, whereas the term baby sitter suggests a passive watcher. 'Nanny' implies experience, a legitimate position with salary and benefits, as well a certain level of status. It is an upgrade, a way of legitimizing child care."
Predictably, parents come down firmly on both sides of the language divide.
When Stephanie Palewski, an editor at "60 Minutes," had two young children at home, she and her husband, Will Brumbach, an owner of an Internet company, employed a combination of child care people. But Rebecca Knights was their only full-time person, and the only one they called nanny.
"She was more than a baby sitter," said Ms. Palewski, who lives in the Flatiron district. "She was support staff for both the children and us. She was the mother, father, grandparent and any other relative who couldn't be there. She was a teacher, a shoulder, a chef, a housekeeper, an entertainer. An angel.
"I think the word nanny is a very respectful term reserved for the caregiver who is also a teacher and guide to the wonders of life," Ms. Palewski added. "I wouldn't think of calling any of our other caregivers nanny, only Rebecca."
For others, the word is an elitist term that sticks in the throat. To these parents, the term smacks of class consciousness, regardless of how high their child care expectations are.
"We need child care from breakfast till dinner, and we split the job between two people, neither of whom lives with us," said Richard Lyon, a composer and writer who lives on the Upper East Side with his wife, Valerie, a physician, and their two children.
 BOTH are loving, responsible, generous, intelligent, all the things you want in a nanny," Mr. Lyon said. "But we'd never think of calling them that. It seems somehow anachronistic and pretentious in 21st-century New York. I call them our child care people. Val calls them our baby sitters. We've tried to come up with a useful alternative, but we're stumped.
"When I was a kid," Mr. Lyon added, "my family had someone we called a governess. She was the antithesis of Julie Andrews, whom I still picture when I hear the word nanny. If we ever do hire someone with that perfect face and accent, who sings like a bird and can teach our kids to fly, then maybe I'll relent and call her our nanny."
The choice of terminology can also be a function of economics.
"When I think of a nanny," said Danielle Evans, a research assistant in a direct marketing agency, who lives in Inwood with her husband, Gregory, a freelance musician, and their two children, 4 and 2, "I think of an older, loving woman who would dedicate herself to my children.
"But I also think of someone we could never afford to hire," Ms. Evans added.
For now, she remains in "babysitterdom," using part-time child care to fill the gaps in her and her husband's schedules, the world of nannies still an elusive dream.
Caretakers also have their opinions.
For a year, Julie Pettinelli, an Upper East Sider who works in the human resources department at Time Inc., has agonized about what to call Pat Erwin, the woman who cares for her baby daughter. But for Ms. Erwin, the issue is simple. "I prefer to be called by my name," she said. "My name is Patricia, and I like to be called either Pat or Patty."
And what about the term nanny?
"That's O.K., too," Ms. Erwin said. "It's really not a big deal.'
Mavis Roberts has been working as a nanny in Manhattan and Westchester County for more than 16 years, though she doesn't refer to herself as such.
"I'm a caregiver," she said, "a child care giver." She is uncomfortable describing herself as a nanny.
"Somehow, a nanny is different," she said. "I am black, and to me, a nanny is white, so I wouldn't call myself that."
Meanwhile, the search continues for a more suitable job title.
"The term nanny gained popularity in this country about 15 years ago," said Joy Shelton, chairwoman of the American Council of Nanny Schools, a coalition of 15 accredited schools across the country. "But if we had it to do over again, we might have chosen a different name, one that reflects more what a nanny does here and now.
"We've tried 'in-home child care provider,' " she said. "But it's just too much of a mouthful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations Sean Kelly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILD CARE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); WOMEN (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (69%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); THEATER (56%); BABY BOOMERS (54%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: GABE HAKVAAG (81%); STEPHANIE PALEWSKI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



620 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2627 words

HEADLINE: The Unlit Stove

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY

 BODY:
NOT long ago, Debra Birnbaum came home to find an unusual letter tucked inside her utility bill. It was from Con Edison, wondering why she wasn't using any gas in her West Village apartment.
"They asked if anything was wrong," said Ms. Birnbaum, a senior editor at George magazine. "And they offered to send over a technician to check on the problem." 
 But there was no problem. Her gas worked perfectly.
"It was pretty humiliating," Ms. Birnbaum acknowledged. "Because the only thing I use my stove for is making popcorn. What was I going to do, call and say: 'Hi. I'm a single girl, and I don't cook?' "
Ms. Birnbaum is hardly alone. The home-cooked meal in New York houses and apartments is decidedly on the wane. This is not simply because New Yorkers eat out so much, but because so many are so reluctant to cook and, when they eat in, they are increasingly able to select from an array of epicurean options available for takeout or delivery to anyone with a phone, fax or modem.
There are no exact figures on how many, or how few, New Yorkers cook, and how much prepared food they consume. But there are telling indicators: On a good night a popular place like Tuscan Square in Rockefeller Center sells more than $400 in takeout dinners, and Tavern on the Green sells some $2,200 worth.
Those tabs may only get larger. In a feverish economy, more New Yorkers are working longer hours than ever, and their numbers include a growing population of mothers who used to stay home and tend the stove. Combine that with the soaring incomes, minuscule kitchens and a passion for all things quick and convenient that are distinctively New York, and it's easy to see why so many residents, especially in Manhattan, are addicted to home meal replacements, or H.M.R.'s, as they're called in the food service industry.
Seth Bookey, an Upper East Sider who edits a trade publication called Vision Monday, tells of the time an English friend came to visit and was shocked by the number of people lined up for takeout late at night.
"She said, 'Do all New Yorkers do this every night?' " Mr. Bookey remembered. "And I said: 'Of course not. Half the time we have food delivered.' "
Of course, some New Yorkers are passionate cooks. But while a certain segment of the population can be found fingering the whisks at Williams-Sonoma, prowling the produce aisles of Fairway, brushing up on Indonesian cooking and watching, enraptured, as the Iron Chef hacks away on the Food Network, a countertrend is at work.
"Here, cooking is a spectator sport," said Carol A. Butler, a psychotherapist whose downtown clientele includes many people more likely to stop at the gym than the supermarket after work. "It's something you watch and think you might someday try."
 
A No-Brainer: The Stove or the Phone
If New Yorkers are addicts, the city is the great enabler. Sure, you could always get Chinese and diner food to go, but in the last five years the options have become staggering, much like the explosion in dot-com start-ups, a related phenomenon. Pizzaman still delivers, but so does the chic French bistro on the corner. Nearly every ethnic restaurant will dispatch fresh, hot food to your door in minutes, and a surprisingly large number of upscale places, like the "21" Club, offer food to go.
The phenomenon has transformed the sights, sounds and smells of the city. Every evening at dinner time, the streets are flooded with delivery men on bicycles, heavy chains clanking in the night as the drivers lock their bikes (illegally) to trees. Halls and elevators of apartment buildings once suffused with homey aromas flowing from warm ovens become redolent with the pungent scent of kung-pao chicken and pizza topped with goat cheese.
"There's more food delivery options in New York than anywhere," said Paul Westra, a former analyst at Salomon Brothers, and now vice president of business development at food.com, a Web site that offers online ordering from 300 New York restaurants. "In New York, time is the most valuable component of a cooked-meal experience. And dining out means investing the whole evening, not just the money. So, many New Yorkers choose delivery.
"When it comes to ordering out," he added, "New York is 10 years ahead of the nation."
The proof is in the proverbial pudding, packaged, preferably, in a reheatable polyurethane container. New York may be the "biggest restaurant market on the planet," according to the 2000 Zagat Restaurant Survey, but it isn't the place people dine out the most. That honor belongs to Houston, where respondents ate out 4.9 times weekly, excluding breakfast, compared with just 3.2 meals a week for New Yorkers, who lagged behind the national average of 3.8.
In the realm of takeout, however, nobody can hold a warming bag to New Yorkers. Those responding to the Zagat survey ate restaurant food at home 3.8 times weekly, more often than in any of 32 cities studied and well above the national average. And New Yorkers cook less than anyone. Just 4.8 homemade meals weekly, compared with 5.6 nationwide and 6.3 in the biggest home-cooking town of all, Baltimore.
One explanation for this trend is the rise of the cyberclass, or, as Sam Sifton, a senior editor at Talk magazine, calls them, the "yetties" (young entrepreneurial technocrats).
"I spent a year among them, documenting their habits, including their food," said Mr. Sifton, whose book, "A Field Guide to the Yettie: America's Young, Entrepreneurial Technocrats," will be published this month by Talk-Miramax Books. "The yuppies as we understood them disappeared after the '87 stock market crash. But their ethos lived on, partly in the notion of nonstop corporate-card delivery and takeout."
In the lofts of Silicon Alley, still humming despite a slowing of the city's dot-com economy, "It's all about takeout," Mr. Sifton said.
"For the yettie, life is work and work is life," he added. "They're at the office 18 hours a day. At some point, the sushi man is going to come."
Sushi, sleek, elegant and low-cal, is mother's milk to higher-echelon techies. Those further down the electronic food chain, like programmers and coders, prefer copious quantities of Chinese takeout. "They are much more the General Tso's chicken type," Mr. Sifton said.
"I doubt many of them are interested in cooking," he continued. "But if Nasdaq rebounds, and there's a second wave of I.P.O.'s and instant gagillionaires, they're going to buy bigger places. And for the first time, some 30-year-old will be staring down the barrel of a Viking stove. And what do you do at that point? Well, you look at it for six months, and then maybe you boil an egg."
 
Guilt and the Mothers Of Convention
For all the "I can order anything any time" bravado, a sense of guilt is sometimes at work, a sneaking suspicion that, as plastic and foil containers pile up in the garbage, maybe all this takeout is taking its toll on home and hearth, not to mention pocketbook and waistline.
This sentiment is particularly prevalent among mothers, who sometimes, but not always, lament the fact that the fridge is stocked with little more than packets of ketchup and plum sauce. Is it possible, they wonder, not totally tongue in cheek, that they are producing a generation of children who will refuse to eat anything that does not come in a small white carton with an aluminum handle?
There is also a fear that delivered dinners feed isolationism in families, especially when each member orders an individual item, then retreats into a bedroom. Some parents put their foot down.
"We used to order from different restaurants," said one busy public relations executive. "But now I insist on one check." This woman, who lives on the Upper West Side, never cooks and says she knows no one who does.
But, she added: "At least I have friends in fast food. My mother had a close relationship with the butcher. I have a close relationship with the sushi place. I call to order, give them my phone number, and they say, 'Oh, it's the yellowtail scallion inside-out lady.' "
Delivered dinners can also offer an overlooked advantage. Patrons with enough charm, not to mention chutzpah, can often coax a delivery person into picking up a few extra items along the way.
Lisa Albanese, 29, a marketing executive for a clothing company, is a master of this strategy. Ms. Albanese and her husband, Augustin Jakovac, a producer at VH1, live in a "cozy" exposed-brick one-bedroom in an Upper West Side brownstone. The kitchen is little more than a counter, and they order out a lot.
"The restaurant guys always recognize her and say: 'Hey, Lisa! What's up?' " Mr. Jakovac said. "And she orders the bagels, or whatever, and then adds: 'I'm really kind of desperate. We don't have any toilet paper, and I know that two doors down from you there's a discount store. Do you think you could pick up a four-pack of Charmin for me and put it on the bill?' And they do."
They also bring newspapers, magazines and Tylenol.
"I can't believe she has the gall to even ask," Mr. Jakovac said. "But she asks very nicely: 'Do you think you could, perhaps, maybe? If I gave you a good tip?"' Ms. Albanese became so adept at this approach she even persuaded the pizza place near her old apartment to send up single slices.
 
How to Remove All Temptation to Cook
In some New York households, not only the home-cooked meal has disappeared. The appliance used to prepare the food has disappeared along with it. Isaac Kolhberg, until recently an administrator at New York University Medical Center, and his companion, Na'an Nadar, an interior designer, were so certain they would never cook in their Washington Square Village apartment, they had the oven and range removed. A woman comes once a week to stock the freezer with entrees that can be warmed in the microwave oven.
"I know we should probably be doing some cooking ourselves," Mr. Nadar said. "But we honestly can't figure out why."
Carol Zack, a calligrapher who lives on West 74th Street, went an entire year without a working oven. After it broke for the third time, she never bothered to have it fixed. When her daughter teased her about the situation, Ms. Zack pointed out that the family did own a microwave, although she admitted she had no idea how to use it.
She, too, has developed coping strategies. She adores the thin-crust pizza at a local parlor, but the pizzeria delivers only as far south as 75th Street. So, like Elaine on "Seinfeld," Mrs. Zack devised an ingenious solution.
"I called and ordered and gave them an address on 75th Street," she said. "Then I walked one block north, and when the man on a bicycle arrived, I paid him and took the pizza home." A doorman witnessing the transaction was so moved by her plight, he gave her the telephone number of the lobby, for use with future pies.
Bill Diggins and Jennifer Bandier Diggins, an Upper East Side couple who manage pop bands like TLC, found themselves in a situation so typically New York, it could have inspired an entire episode of "Seinfeld." Ms. Bandier Diggins orders in everything, even coffee. But one day, overcome with an odd feeling of boredom and curiosity, she decided to bake cookies.
"I became obsessed," she said, "and called the store and had $300 worth of ingredients sent over, put the oven on, and began mixing." A half-hour later, the apartment was filled with toxic fumes. It turned out the housekeeper had converted the oven into a closet for storing Tupperware, which melted into a single blob. "She never imagined it would be used for anything like baking," Ms. Bandier Diggins said.
 
Beyond Pizza and Chinese: Four-Star Delivery
The cognoscenti have always known how to have upscale cuisine delivered to their doorstep. Places like "21" have been doing it for decades. In "Rear Window," Grace Kelly ordered a four-star dinner for a wheelchair-bound Jimmy Stewart, complete with a waiter in tails. But the range of haute cuisine that can routinely be delivered grows more impressive by the week. Options, some for takeout but many for delivery, include Swedish gravlax from Aquavit, veal Romana from Campagnola and chicken Kiev from the Russian Tea Room, among countless choices.
New Yorkers who live near Peccavi, an Italian Mediterranean restaurant on East 26th Street, can enjoy dinner delivered the Old World way, arranged on fine bone china on big trays borne by uniformed waiters dodging traffic. (People living further away get a busboy with a beribboned, multicolored paper bag.)
"We didn't plan to do any delivery, but we started getting many calls for it," said Kana Brinckerhoff, an owner of the five-month-old restaurant. "And not just the occasional fried calamari. People want rib steak and pomegranate-glazed quail."
Because orders to be delivered can easily come to $80 or $90, she added an extra touch.
"I felt like we were cheating people out of a fine dining experience," Ms. Brinckerhoff said, "so we put everything in reusable Tupperware-like containers and a nice bag. We're trying to justify, saying: 'O.K., here's your $90 takeout. Isn't that a cute bag?' "
Another option is e-menus. These include sites like nydelivery.com, gotham2go.com and food.com, which connect mostly to pizza and fast-food places, as well as more specialized sites like tossed.com, which calls itself "the world's first online salad bar," and redwinewithfish.com, "preparing and delivering civilized dinners to civilized New Yorkers." Health fanatics may patronize a site called zonetoyourhome.com, which will send three meals daily, based on the Zone diet, for $24.95.
The almost-personal chef, once the preserve of the superrich, has become an increasingly familiar presence even in middle-class families. The many choices include Joan's Personal Chef Service, which will prepare a week's worth of dinners, including snacks, for a family of four, for $50 a dinner, and the Natural, which will deliver four complete meals with an emphasis on natural foods for $100. Thirty-one New York businesses are listed on the Web site of the United States Personal Chef Association.
 
Takeout Trend: Threat or Menace?
Is the decline of the home-cooked dinner yet another indication that civilization is teetering on the brink, or is it simply a not-so-sinister sign of the times?
Whatever the answer, it is clearly no deterrent when it comes to dinner parties.
"New Yorkers can never agree on anything," said Ms. Birnbaum, explaining why she gave a touch-tone dinner party not long ago. "Everyone has their own little rules. This one's vegetarian. That one won't eat Chinese. This one is gluten-intolerant." And so, having prepared her guests for an evening of takeout, she simply tossed some menus on the table alongside her credit card and announced: "Dinner is served. Pick one."
And while the image of a family devouring a meal prepared by loving hands is appealing, it is debatable whether intangible emotional benefits have been lost.
"I hear stories about family meals that were disastrous," said Ms. Butler, the psychotherapist. "Even as adults, plenty of folks dread going home for the family dinner experience. It wasn't a universally warm and fuzzy experience."
Others disagree.
"Nothing fixes somebody's bad day more than having their favorite dish made by someone they care about," said Sara Moulton, an executive chef at Gourmet magazine and host of the Food Network's "Cooking Live."
"It's like mom's meatballs. In New York, everyone's rushing around, talking into cell phones, barking at each other. Home cooking, though, is much more conducive to sitting down, talking.
"It may sound corny," Ms. Moulton added, "but there's something to sharing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Victor Juhasz)(pg. 1,15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (60%); 

PERSON: DEBRA BIRNBAUM (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



621 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ECONOMY;
CONSTRUCTION OUTLOOK

BYLINE: By Karen Demasters

 BODY:
Construction in New Jersey should continue to boom during the next two years, according to an annual projection by the Alliance for Action released last week. The alliance predicts $20 billion in new construction during 2001 and 2002. This is a 24 percent increase over the prediction last year for the years 2000 and 2001 and the largest dollar amount predicted since the alliance began making its annual forecasts 16 years ago. The numbers are based on the plans of 25 public and private organizations involved in construction. Projected school construction of $3.1 billion over the next two years represented the largest single area. The State Transportation Trust Fund projects $975 million in construction spending over the two years. For the private sector, the New Jersey Chapter of the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties estimated $2.6 billion in new construction for the two years and New Jersey utility companies said $2.1 billion in construction work would be done. Last year the alliance predicted $16.7 billion in new construction in 2000 and 2001. Karen DeMasters
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



622 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 3; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

These Truths Are Portable
WEDNESDAY -- A dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria will raise money to display a 1776 copy of the Declaration of Independence at libraries and public schools across the country. The event is organized by People for the American Way, the civic, policy and lobbying group. Nickolas Davatzes, the president and chief executive of the A&E Television Networks, will be honored. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $600, from (212) 245-6570. 

For 'Greener' Buildings
WEDNESDAY -- A dinner at the Racquet and Tennis Club, 370 Park Avenue (52nd Street), will honor Ralph Gibson, a photographer, for his work on the New York urban environment. The evening, which begins with drinks and a silent auction at 7, will benefit the Design Trust for Public Space, which gives fellowships to architects, landscape artists and urban planners to encourage environmentally sound building projects and the development of playgrounds and other public open space. Bruce Ferguson, the dean of the Columbia University School of the Arts, will speak. Tickets, $250, from (212) 695-2432, ext. 10.
 
Angel Ball
THURSDAY -- Marc Anthony, Natalie Cole, Sister Sledge and 'N Sync will be among those performing at a dinner at the New York Marriott Marquis for the G&P Foundation for Cancer Research. The event will also honor Queen Noor of Jordan, Mikhail Gorbachev and Paul McCartney, each of whom has lost a spouse to cancer. The black-tie evening begins with drinks at 6:30; dinner and the show follow at 7:30. Tickets, $1,250, from (212) 614-0400.
 
A Century of Aid
THURSDAY -- The Xavier Society for the Blind, which celebrated its 100th anniversary this year, will raise money for its programs, including its publication, The Catholic Review, at a cocktail party at the Southgate Tower Suite Hotel, 371 Seventh Avenue (31st Street). The organization provides people who are blind or have limited vision with spiritual and inspirational reading materials and operates a free lending library of works in large print and Braille and on audiocassettes. The evening begins at 6. Tickets, $100, from (212) 473-7800.
 
Affordable New York
THURSDAY -- Edward I. Koch will be among those honored for their efforts in support of New York neighborhoods at a dinner at Cipriani 42nd Street, 110 East 42nd Street. The black-tie event will raise money for programs of the Phipps Community Development Corporation, which builds affordable housing in New York and provides social services to the residents. Jane Hanson, an anchor on WNBC-TV, will be the evening's host. Drinks at 6:30, and dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $600, from (212) 675-9474.
 
For Peace and Human Rights
THURSDAY -- The New Israel Fund will raise money for its social programs in Israel, which include efforts on behalf of civil and human rights, women, and Jewish-Arab equality and coexistence. It will hold a cocktail party, buffet dinner and dance at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place (East 15th Street). The evening begins at 8 with cocktails. Tickets, $125, from (212) 750-2333, or $150 at the door.
 
Reaching for the Sky
THURSDAY -- A cocktail party at the Four Seasons will raise money for Trees New York, an organization that teaches children and adults to plant and care for trees on the streets of the city. Among those to be honored are Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a New York Democrat. The event begins at 5:30 p.m. Tickets, $125, from (212) 227-1887.
 
Fulbright Dinner
THURSDAY -- Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers will speak at a dinner at the Plaza to raise money for the Institute of International Education, which administers the Fulbright scholarship program. Mr. Summers will be honored for his work on global economic policy, and Douglas Daft, the chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company, will be honored for his company's work in in the countries where it operates. The black-tie evening begins at 6:30 with cocktails; dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 685-1095.
 
Helping Build Schools
THURSDAY -- A cocktail reception at the Hudson Hotel, 356 East 58th Street, will raise money for the School House Foundation, which helps arrange financing for the construction of public schools in New York. The event begins at 6:30 p.m. Tickets, $2,500, from (212) 981-5281.
 
AIDS Concert
FRIDAY -- The B-52's, Cyndi Lauper, Rufus Wainwright and the Girls Choir of Harlem will be among the performers at a concert beginning at 8 p.m. at Carnegie Hall to raise money for the social service and education programs of Gay Men's Health Crisis, the AIDS service organization. Sandra Bernhard will be the host, and Phil Donahue will be among those honored. A reception with the honorees and the artists will be held at Brasserie 8 1/2, 9 West 57th Street, just after the concert. Tickets, $250, from (212) 367-1531, or $35 to $75 for the concert alone, from (212) 247-7800.
 
Dining to Gershwin
FRIDAY -- The pianist Christopher Johnson, who will play Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue," will be among those performing at a benefit dinner for the Bar Harbor Music Festival. The black-tie evening will be at the Liederkranz Club, 6 East 87th Street. The organization gives artists opportunities to perform and presents free concerts and artist-in-residence programs in American schools and colleges. Cocktails at 6:45. The event will include dancing to Viennese waltzes performed by members of the Bar Harbor Festival String Orchestra. Tickets, $175, from (212) 222-1026.
 
SoHo Masquerade
SATURDAY -- A masquerade party at SoHo Studios, 13-17 Laight Street, will raise money for Gen Art, a producer of events for new artists including fashion shows, film festivals and art exhibitions. Photographs by Jared Collins and Amber Gray will be on display. The evening begins at 9 with cocktails, hors d'oeuvres and a silent auction of masks. Tickets, $75, from (212) 290-0312.
 
Fashion Rescue
SATURDAY -- The UJA-Federation will open its annual Fashion Rescue boutique, a weeklong sale of donated items including designer clothing, jewelry and accessories at the Expo Center in Madison Square Garden, 32nd Street and Seventh Avenue. The sale will raise money for programs that the organization supports for people with AIDS and breast and ovarian cancer, and victims of domestic violence, poverty and drug addiction. The opening-night event begins at 6:30. The sale continues daily through Dec. 10. Tickets on Saturday and Sunday, $10, or $6 thereafter, from (212) 465-6741.
 
For Hospice Care
NEXT SUNDAY -- The Metropolitan Hospice of Greater New York, which provides care and help for terminally ill patients and their families, will hold a fund-raiser that includes a matinee performance of "Aida" by Elton John and Tim Rice. The event begins with the show at 3 p.m. at the Palace Theater. Afterward, there will be a champagne and cocktail reception at the Crowne Plaza Manhattan Hotel. Tickets, $180, or $120 for the show alone, from (718) 851-5973.
 
Wobegone to Peterborough
DEC. 4 -- Garrison Keillor, Anne Jackson and James Naughton will be some of those performing at the University Club, 1 West 54th Street, to raise money for programs for composers, novelists, playwrights, artists, architects and filmmakers at the MacDowell Colony, the artists' program in Peterborough, N.H. Robert MacNeil, the former news anchor and now chairman of the board of the organization, will be the master of ceremonies for the black-tie evening, which begins with a cocktail reception at 7. Tickets, $750, from (212) 535-9690.
 
Back to School
DEC. 4 -- Bill Cosby will be the host at an evening of performances by alumni and students of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University. The black-tie event at Avery Fisher Hall will raise money for scholarships and programs at the school, which is celebrating its 35th anniversary, and will begin with cocktails at 6:30. The performance begins at 7:30, and supper will follow immediately after the show. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 685-1095, or $35 or $100 for the reception and show alone, from (212) 875-5030.
 
Dancing Against Illness
DEC. 4 -- An evening of dancing at Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, will benefit the Design Industries Foundation Fighting AIDS, which supports H.I.V. and AIDS services and education. Guests will gather at 9:30 for dessert and dancing, and there will be an exhibition of cosmetics, fashion designs and tabletop items by designers and artists. There will also be a silent auction of works by photographers including Steven Meisel, Annie Leibovitz and Patrick Demarchelier. Tickets, $50, from (212) 727-3100.
 
Scholarship Dinner
DEC. 4 -- The Inner-City Scholarship Fund of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York will benefit from a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. Proceeds will provide tuition aid for poor children attending the 118 schools operated by the archdiocese. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Black tie. Tickets, $750, from (212) 753-8583.
 
Main Event
DEC. 5 -- The New York premiere of David Mamet's "State and Main," a film whose stars include Alec Baldwin, William H. Macy and Sarah Jessica Parker, will raise money for the City Parks Foundation. The evening begins with the screening at 6:30 at the Loews Lincoln Square Theater, Broadway at 68th Street. Dinner at the Museum of Natural History will follow immediately, with guests entering from Central Park West. Transportation to the dinner will be provided. Tickets, $600, from (212) 360-1399. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: A & E TELEVISION NETWORKS LLC (57%); PEOPLE FOR THE AMERICAN WAY (58%); PEOPLE FOR THE AMERICAN WAY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE AMERICAN WAY (58%); PEOPLE FOR THE AMERICAN WAY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); LIBRARIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); GREEN BUILDING (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); AUCTIONS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); BLINDNESS (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (67%); CANCER (65%); ONCOLOGY (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); LOBBYING (57%); 

PERSON: PAUL MCCARTNEY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



623 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS WORLD;
Capitalism, One Student At a Time, In Vietnam

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam

 BODY:
OF all the radical free-market concepts that American teachers are pounding into their students at a small Harvard-run economics institute here, the most fundamental may be elbow grease.
"I hear the complaint, 'You make them work too hard; you don't give them time to contemplate,' " said Brian Quinn, until recently the institute's director, as he headed down a busy two-lane highway dotted with the small new factories that form the first ripple of Vietnam's slowly emerging market economy. 
 One Vietnamese economist, said Lora L. Sabin, the institute's academic director, told her quite seriously, "Vietnamese officials prefer to work in a low-intensity environment."
Changing that attitude is one of the goals of the Fulbright Economics Teaching Program, founded in 1994 and administered by the Center for Business and Government at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. At a cool and sun-dappled complex in the city center, the institute is working to prepare middle-level mangers in provincial governments and state and private enterprises to do battle in the fast-moving market economy that Vietnam must master if it is to compete in the world.
"Things now move so quickly that it is impossible for any group of bureaucrats to make the right decisions even half the time," Mr. Quinn said.
The institute's efforts have become more important as pressure on Vietnam has intensified to loosen its centrally planned economy. President Clinton repeatedly emphasized the themes of speedier and more open economic development in Vietnam during his three-day visit to the country that ended last Sunday. Many American corporations, like Boeing, Caterpillar, Corning, Motorola and Oracle, are eager to start or expand their presence here, but the business climate remains difficult.
IN its one-year programs, the institute drills an average of 200 or more students in basic economic concepts and analytic skills, offering courses on subjects like applied statistics, managerial accounting, principles of management and appraisal of development expenditures.
"I found something of a shock when I came here," said Hung Quan, 35, a student who is an official at the regulatory agency for Vietnam's new stock exchange. "When we learned about central planning we learned how to manage and control the economy following the plan. In the new economy we are learning here how to use scarce resources efficiently. It is a very, very different point of view. There is some difficulty in adapting our learning from our old way of life. We are learning how to change."
People of his generation in Vietnam -- the people who make the economy run on a day-to-day level -- were trained in the principles of a command economy where the ethos was a rote fulfillment of government plans and goals.
"Now I think we will see changes," said another student, Bich Ha, an import-export manager for a private company. "People realize that if they don't change, if they don't hurry up, they will be left behind."
The institute, sponsored by the United States Information Agency with the cooperation of the Vietnamese government, anticipates the direction of Vietnamese economic development by shifting the focus from the central government to the provincial and local level.
"Economic reform is really going to be a process of decentralization of decision-making authority," Mr. Quinn said. "More and more decisions are going to be devolved to the provincial level, and as this happens it is important for these people to have the ability to make rational decisions.
"They will be designing programs, designing tax structures, designing government policy. It's unfair to require them to make policy and not give them the skills they need to do that."
Heading south through the rice fields of the northern Mekong Delta, where small factories have expanded the outskirts of Vietnam's economic hub, Ho Chi Minh City, Mr. Quinn stopped at the Long An Textile Company, a struggling state-owned enterprise that produces synthetic fabrics.
A recent graduate, Le Van Bich, was given the job of deputy director in charge of business development here in the hope that his new expertise would help make the factory more competitive.
"This company was established under central planning and we are still trying to find a way into the market economy," said Mr. Bich, who is in his mid-40's. "We make a lot of mistakes, for example not taking into account the impact of exchange rates on the costs of equipment."
Some of the old guard resist his innovations of style, he said. "But mostly we don't have a problem with employees because they realize there is no other way to go," he added. "If you don't go this way you can't last."
A little farther down the highway, Mr. Quinn stopped to talk with another graduate, Nguyen Thi Thu, 43, vice chairwoman for the management of industrial zones in Long An province.
"Before, we trained with a Soviet model," she said. "Most of the officials here understand the words and basic ideas of the new system so they can say the right things, but they don't really understand them. So when I explain things, they listen to me."
Curiously, the concept of independent thinking seems to be catching on precisely because it is the new policy of the central government -- the new central plan.
"The government and the party have a new line now and this line is markets," she said. "So if you can use market reasoning people agree with you. They don't argue against you because they know it is the line."
She added: "We have a new way of working since I came back from the course that everyone has to adapt to. It is much faster and more rigorous. Before, we worked much more slowly."
One of the most useful skills she learned at the institute, she said, was project appraisal -- the analysis of economic and financial risk and the balancing of gains and losses involved in a proposed project.
"In Vietnam today, analysis of investments is usually more emotional than rational," Mr. Quinn said. " 'We need a steel plant because every industrialized country has a steel plant.' We want them to be able rationally to try to understand whether it is more urgent, with their scarce resources, to build a bridge, a school or a new office building. What's the return on investment, what are the risks, how do you identify the benefits and losses in a rational way?"
At the institute, each student is asked to bring a real example from his or her home province for analysis by the class. Should the province build one big bridge or two small ones? What is the projected growth of traffic flow?
"The old way of thinking was to say, 'Oh, we think it will grow 10 percent,' but it's very hard to establish demand," said Ms. Sabin, who teaches the project appraisal course. "We want to expose them to the way we think about problems. The real world is filled with uncertainty, and that's the world they'll be working in when they go back to their own provinces."
STUDENTS are also taught to think not only about the enterprise and its immediate profits but also about the consumer, the ultimate arbiter in a market economy.
"Under the old system, the growth of output of shoes was set by the government at a certain level," Mr. Quinn said. "But it turned out that Vietnam was an attractive place to produce shoes and demand grew, and the government plan ignored that."
One of the most pervasive problems that foreign investors have found in Vietnam is an us-versus-them mentality. The concept of a win-win outcome is rare here.
"Their usual assumption is, if you win, I lose," Ms. Sabin said, "and the only way to make sure I win is for you to lose. It's like a war strategy.
"But of course, if you keep doing this in business, your partners are not going to come back."
Mr. Quinn agreed, "That's one of the things they have to learn about trade: that everyone can win."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Fulbright Economics Teaching Program, administered by Harvard, helps students navigate Vietnam's emerging economy. (Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); VIETNAM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); VIETNAM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); ACCOUNTING (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



624 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: THE AGE OF DISSONANCE;
Neurosis in the City: It Goes Way Back

BYLINE: By Bob Morris

 BODY:
DOES it mean you're on the ball or neurotic when you're the first summer renter to resurface in East Hampton?
Two weeks ago, before the weather had turned cold and even before holiday season anxieties had surfaced, my friend Steven and I revisited the place, which we hadn't seen since late August. Rental prices had jumped, according to our Sotheby's broker, and many properties had been sold during the economic blush of fall. 
 Still, with summer a mere seven or eight months away, it was time to begin the hunt. With the focus of sea gulls devouring delicacies from the trash, we plowed through several homes, dismissing them as too this or too that and turning up nothing that suited our Platonic Hamptonian ideal.
As I drove home, my agitation was exacerbated by traffic on the Southern State Parkway, almost as bad as traffic in August. The weird thing was that something about all this -- the traffic's making me late for the theater, the daunting cost of the distant summer and the challenge of finding a sufficient number of attractive, low-key friends able to afford such steep rent -- felt so familiar, so right.
I guess I'm just your average neurotic with Newyorkitis.
Newyorkitis is not a term of my own invention. It was coined in 1901, when one Dr. James Girdner published a book by the same name. According to Dr. Girdner, the symptoms of Newyorkitis include "haste, rudeness, restlessness, arrogance, contemptuousness, excitability, anxiety, pursuit of novelty and of grandeur, pretensions of omniscience, and therefore prescience, which of course undermines any pleasure taken in novelty."
Dr. Girdner wrote this book at a time when neurasthenia was big -- a disorder in mental functioning that, according to Freud, includes lassitude, irritability, worry and hypochondria. These days, neurasthenia and Newyorkitis may be arcane terms, but that doesn't mean neurosis doesn't thrive in the city that never sleeps, at least not without Ambien, melatonin or a discussion about which to take during upgraded air travel. "When you're neurotic in New York, it means you have a link to being an intellectual," said Sondra Farganis, a sociology professor at the New School for Social Research. "And it also often means there's a charm and depth to your feelings."
Indeed, this would help explain the appeal of Woody Allen, Jerry Seinfeld, Candace Bushnell and the Broadway comedy hit "The Allergist's Wife," not only to New Yorkers but to the rest of the country, too, including telephone solicitors, who view us as a kind of demographic viper pit.
Still, it takes a certain fortitude to be charmed by life at such a heightened pitch, where every move, outfit and accessory is stridently scrutinized. A friend who teaches kindergarten in TriBeCa, for instance, has to face germ-obsessed parents who want no child's hand to touch the floor, and who would also like a video camera installed in the bathroom to see that everyone washes properly.
She becomes neurotic hearing her students talk about their country houses and lavish vacations. I can relate. "Are you looking to rent or buy?" is all someone had to ask about my Hamptons house hunt at a cocktail party the other night and I collapsed into myself. Money! New York magazine's recent cover story about how much New Yorkers make suggested that if we were all more open about money, it would actually make us nicer.
I'm not sure knowing that Tommy Hilfiger made $26.9 million last year makes me any nicer. But it certainly makes me more knowing, for better or worse.
Are we all so knowing as a defense against all the things we can't know -- like if the Poland Springs water we just drank was tainted, or if that mosquito bite will infect us with the West Nile virus or if we'll ever get a cab without having to fight for it? I don't know. But in a quest for amusement as much as for an answer, I attended a recent New School seminar called "Neuroses and the Culture of the City."
It was packed. I learned a lot, too: that the moderator, first of all, used to be a heroin addict, and that the term "ambient fear" describes the low-level hum of anxiety we live with daily.
I also learned that long before Walt Whitman called New York a "passionate and mettlesome city," Horace and Juvenal deplored the clamor of ancient Rome; and that when the automobile first appeared in New York, it was considered dangerous because it was so much quieter than clattering carriages. Most surprising, I learned that two big polls taken in 1954 and 1969 showed that New Yorkers weren't more neurotic than other Americans, and that they actually had lower suicide rates and fewer psychiatric problems.
"Neurosis involves issues of style, not substance," declared Hillel Schwartz, a panelist, before a rapt crowd. "It's a kind of escapism for the well-off individualist."
Being neurotic, after all, at least in the way we think of it around here, is really a privilege, an affliction that lacks any real political or medical urgency. In fact, the neurosis seminar at the New School was nothing if not a crowd pleaser.
The Thanksgiving Day parade a week later was another matter. At a viewing party on a friend's balcony on Central Park West, we were all watching the parade in our own particular way. I, for instance, was pleased to see that none of the marching bands freezing their lips off were local, and wondered if the Mickey or Barney or Rugrats balloon floating past us in the wind at eye level might do the kind of damage that would result in more lawsuits by injured onlookers.
Nearby, two guests surveyed a shivering Texan flag team. "They should have color-coordinated their ski hats or at least done them in all neutral colors," said one. "I hate parades," said another, who then watched intently until the whole thing was over.
I should probably learn to hate parades, too, and the Hamptons as well.
But first, I've got to get a summer rental.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Martin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUCTIONS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); TELEMARKETING (50%); 

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



625 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Initial Offerings: Once Hot, but Now Hot Potatoes

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
IF your holiday wish list includes shares of the hottest new stock, you are likely to be disappointed. With the way things are going in the stock market, you might find more value in a Pets.com sock puppet or a William Shatner CD.
Several companies have had such dismal debuts that there may not be many more offerings this year -- hot, cold or lukewarm. 
 The heady days of February and early March, when the typical initial public offering doubled in price in its first day of trading, are a warm and increasingly fuzzy memory. Back then, I.P.O. seemed to stand for immediate profit opportunity. Now, investors appear to have a different interpretation: it's probably overpriced.
All four of last week's offerings stumbled out of the gate, losing as much as 18 percent in a day. Rigel Pharmaceuticals, a member of the fast-cooling biotechnology sector, reduced its rescheduled offering in size and price, then postponed it. Since Oct. 1, some 58 offerings have been withdrawn or postponed and 49 have been sold, said Richard Peterson, an analyst at Thomson Financial/ Securities Data in Newark.
Those are troubling results for the one set of products that Wall Street tries to underprice. To keep companies coming to market and investors eager to buy their stocks, investment bankers price initial offerings so that they will rise, at least a little. A quick gain of 10 percent to 15 percent was considered ideal before the Internet stock craze bubbled up and shares routinely doubled or tripled on Day One.
Prospects for new stocks have not looked this bleak since the fall of 1998, when the market skidded to a halt in the wake of the Russian financial crisis. Back then, some very profitable companies, including the Goldman Sachs Group, shelved their initial offerings while they waited for the market to recover. By late November, investors had resumed gobbling up new stocks, and that stall turned out to be a hiccup.
This one may require a Heimlich. "Normally at this time of year we should be getting rocked," said Irv DeGraw, a finance professor at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla., who studies the market for new stocks. "It's usually a pretty hectic market from Thanksgiving until mid-December."
Last year, there were about 45 initial offerings after Thanksgiving, Mr. Peterson said. This year, there may not be half that many, he said.
What went wrong? Mr. DeGraw, also research director at WorldFinanceNet.com, which tracks stock offerings, said that the initial-offering market had been sagging for several weeks but that its weakness was masked by enduring demand for biotechnology, optical networking and alternative energy stocks. "Unfortunately, all three of those pillars collapsed," Mr. DeGraw said.
Trapped in the rubble was Alliance Fiber Optic Products, a company that Merrill Lynch took public on Tuesday, after reducing the number of shares for sale by 28 percent. The shares, offered at $11, ended their first day down 87.5 cents, or 8 percent, and dropped on their second to $8.50.
That was not even the worst performance by a Merrill-led initial offering last week. Imagic TV fell from its $11 offering price to $6.75, or 39 percent, in its first two days of trading.
Surely, some of those who rushed to sell at a loss had been recipients of "friends and family" stock, shares doled out to people associated with executives or underwriters of the company being offered. Until the Nasdaq index crashed through the atmosphere last spring, insiders' shares in a technology company were equated with manna from heaven.
Now that investors have little appetite for new stocks, people with connections to the next hot offering may be left wondering: With friends and family like these, who needs enemies?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Lower Returns"
First-day percentage gain for initial public offerings.
Graph tracks gains made from January to November

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); AFOP (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (60%); SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); ALLIANCE FIBER OPTIC PRODUCTS INC (60%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); FLORIDA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



626 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Argentina And Canada: Two Sides of Uncertainty

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
'STABILITY might not be everything," Karl Schiller, the former West German economics minister, once remarked, "but without stability, everything is nothing."
The global landscape is littered with the debris of strong national economies that were undermined by the uncertainty of political crises, fiscal emergencies and other catalysts of instability. Right now, the currencies of two countries at opposite ends of the Americas -- Canada and Argentina -- show both the strength of certainty and the withering danger of uncertainty. 
 The exchange rate for the Canadian dollar is set by the market. Argentina's peso has been pegged one-to-one with the United States dollar since 1991. Although Canada's economy is far more developed than Argentina's, their populations are similar in size. Commodities are important to both economies, and both depend heavily on large, competitive neighbors.
When it comes to the currencies, however, Argentina's peso is strong, while its economy is weak. Canada's dollar is weak, but its economy is consistently strong.
The reasons for this seeming contradiction are complex, but they come down to stability, and the confidence that supports it.
Some economists blame the dollar peg for Argentina's recent problems, in part because a strong American dollar translates into a strong peso, which hurts Argentine exports. But the recent loss of investor confidence may be far more damaging, said Steve H. Hanke, a professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins University. His defense of the dollar peg is not surprising since he helped Argentina adopt it. "The problems in Argentina have nothing to do with the currency board," which controls the dollar peg, he said. Argentina really needs to bolster investor confidence, he said.
Soon after taking over last December, the coalition government led by Fernando de la Rua tried to climb out of a recession set off by Brazil's currency devaluation in early 1999. The plan was to reduce the budget deficit by raising taxes. It backfired, raising fears of default or devaluation.
A few weeks ago, the government introduced austerity measures that appeared to satisfy some foreign investors and the International Monetary Fund. But the belt-tightening set off a huge general strike by three major trade unions -- a situation that can only further dampen investor confidence.
Guillermo A. Calvo, director of the Center for International Economics at the University of Maryland, and other economists worry that just forcing Argentina to shape up fiscally will not restore confidence.
Professor Hanke contends that Argentina should abandon the peso and adopt the American dollar as its legal currency. Professor Calvo says the I.M.F. should offer more than the $7 billion credit line it has set aside for Argentina. A larger contingency fund, he said, "would make a big difference in preventing a collapse in 2001."
But another devaluation in Brazil would cause havoc, leading Professor Calvo to suggest it may be time for Brazil and Argentina to consider a common currency.
Some academics say a similar moment may have arrived for Canada and the United States. The two economies are substantially integrated, and when the Federal Reserve Board decided recently against decreasing interest rates, the Canadian dollar -- sometimes called the loonie because of the water bird depicted on $1 coins -- was pummeled. It dropped to its lowest mark in two years, worth just 65 American cents.
Despite the limping loonie, Canada is enjoying "a continuing stream of good economic news," said Karim Basta, director of global debt strategy at Merrill Lynch. Taxes and unemployment are declining, job creation is vigorous and the Toronto Stock Exchange is outpacing United States markets.
Theoretically, Canada allows the value of its dollar to float, meaning that the market determines what a loonie is worth against the United States dollar. In reality, many economists say, the loonie is consistently undervalued. When it drops too low, Canada's central bank defends it by intervening in the market and buying the currency.
Professor Calvo said such interventions "prevent the currency from doing its job," which is to respond to whatever the market will bear. As a result, Canada has neither the responsiveness of a completely free floating exchange rate nor the predictability of a fixed rate set by a currency board.
But what does it matter if the nation remains stable? Canada's economy is cushioned against doubt, so much so that even with closely contested federal elections tomorrow, it is the character of the candidates, not the condition of the currency, that is likely to determine the outcome.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart:
Canadian dollar in U.S. dollars
Graph tracks the monthly exchange rate from 1990 to 2000
 
Canada's G.D.P.
Graph tracks the annual rate, reported quarterly, from 1990 to 2000
 
(Source: BMO Nesbitt Burns Economic Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (99%); CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GUILLERMO A CALVO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



627 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
A Way Around Air Rage: The Charter Flight

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
JOHN MYERS, an advertising executive from Chicago, often dreaded business trips. He had to deal with traffic gridlock on the way to the airport, frequent flight delays or cancellations, and tight space once aboard the plane.
But Mr. Myers and a growing number of other disgruntled travelers, flying for both business and pleasure, have found an alternative in charter flights. Aside from having fewer delays, smaller crowds and often roomier aircraft, charters sometimes offer ticket prices that are competitive with those of commercial airlines. 
 Once the realm of Hollywood moguls or the corporate elite, charter flights are becoming more accessible for everyday travelers. Many air-charter services have sprung up in recent years, some with large corporate backing, and the Internet has made it easier to find and book a flight, either by chartering an entire plane or buying a seat on one. Charter-jet flight hours rose nearly 13 percent in the 12 months ended in July 2000, according to the Air Charter Guide of Cambridge, Mass., which tracks the industry.
"The kinds of people who were chartering planes in my first 10 or 12 years of business were from Fortune 50 or Fortune 100 companies; now we see companies we've never heard of," said Jane F. McBride, chairwoman of FlightTime.com, which has been in the air charter business for 15 years.
Mr. Myers, 49, president of the Trade Marketing Group, has become a frequent customer of Indigo, a unit of NewWorldAir Holdings of Chicago, which has offered charter flights on eight-seat Dassault Falcon 20 aircraft since late August. Like many other charter services, Indigo runs flights from smaller, less-crowded airports -- it now flies only between Midway in Chicago and Teterboro in New Jersey, about 10 miles from Manhattan. The company plans to expand service from Midway to airports in White Plains, Minneapolis, Washington and Atlanta next year.
One major reason that Mr. Myers turned to Indigo was the United Airlines labor dispute with its pilots over the summer. United, the nation's largest airline, was forced to cancel many flights, stranding thousands of travelers. "In the summer of discontent with United, it seemed to be an extremely viable option," he said.
Industry analysts predict that more passengers will choose charter services, especially as commercial business air fares continue to climb and as primary airports become more congested. Just this month, United raised its unrestricted business fares by more than 10 percent, and several other big airlines followed suit. Many industry experts say flight delays, which have risen nearly 50 percent over the last five years, will become worse. The Federal Aviation Administration predicts that by 2010, the number of airline passengers will rise almost 60 percent.
And because the economy remains strong, more companies can afford to charter jets, not only for top executives but also for middle-management teams. "As it takes longer and costs more to do business travel, businesses will increasingly look for viable alternatives to, or substitutes for, traditional scheduled service," said Samuel C. Buttrick, an airline analyst at UBS Warburg.
Sensing an opportunity, several big companies have decided in recent months to invest in charter businesses. American Express has an 11 percent stake in Indigo, while McKinsey & Company holds 1.5 percent. CSFB Private Equity, the private investment arm of the Credit Suisse Group, injected $10 million in eBizJets during the summer, while Bombardier, the Canadian aircraft maker, bought Skyjet.
With the exception of Indigo, which operates private jets through a sister company, AirServ, charter companies basically sell the services of a large group of air charter operators. Paul Takemoto, a spokesman for the F.A.A., says the agency regulates the operators, not the brokers.
The charter brokers with the longest track records are FlightTime, based in Waltham, Mass., and Air Partner P.L.C. of Britain, which has been selling charters for nearly two decades. Its American subsidiary, Air Partner Inc., is based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Both companies arrange charter flights on demand; FlightTime offers them online. Also selling via the Internet are eBizJets and Skyjet, both three years old, and eJets.com and CharterHub.com, which have started in the last six months.
Other types of charters are variations on the concept of fractional ownership of corporate aircraft -- basically a time-share arrangement for those who want access to a corporate jet but do not wish to buy one. Instead, they buy shares of a plane and pay monthly maintenance fees, as well as hourly usage fees when they fly.
FlightTime and eBizJets each offer their own versions of fractional ownership. For a midsize business jet, like a Hawker 800 or Citation III, FlightTime's plan requires the purchase of at least 25 hours of flight time, at $58,000, plus a $1,650 hourly fee. At eBizJets, the midsize business jet plan requires the purchase of at least $100,000 in charter services, the equivalent of 40 hours of flying.
Some charter services capitalize on the fact that many charter planes fly home empty after delivering a customer to a destination. Skyjet, for example, lets charter operators post empty flights online, where travelers can bid for them. Alternatively, travelers can post their desired itineraries on the site and request prices from operators. MyJets.com, which started this month, permits travelers planning to use commercial airlines to post their itineraries on its Web site 72 hours before their departure. If a charter operator is flying an empty plane on any of the travelers' routes, MyJets can sell them seats.
PRICES can vary greatly. Indigo and MyJets have rates that essentially match or even undercut scheduled airlines' unrestricted full coach air fares. For example, Indigo's one-way Midway-Teterboro fare is $635, compared with United's unrestricted one-way coach fare of $879 from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago to La Guardia Airport in New York.
Other brokers' rates are based on the type of aircraft chartered, the number of hours flown and whether the itinerary is one-way or round trip. Air Partner charges $800 to $900 a flight hour for a King Air 200 turboprop, while Skyjet charges around $750. For a larger Gulfstream V, Air Partner charges $6,000 to $7,000 an hour, while Skyjet charges around $5,000 an hour.
For a large group traveling together, chartering a plane can still be cheaper than a last-minute trip on a scheduled commercial flight.
Some charter customers say the benefits far outweigh any extra expense. Marc Herring, 40, chief executive of the Herring Media Group, a marketing and advertising company in Sausalito, Calif., sees a charter jet as a traveling office. He has used FlightTime's services seven times this year to fly staff members and clients to conferences and meetings in the United States and overseas. The aircraft are configured to suit his communications needs; he uses telephones already on the planes and brings along his own networked computers, printers and other equipment.
John Thibault, 46, president of Convergent Networks, a telecommunications company in Lowell, Mass., uses eBizJets' services. He says chartering lets him meet his customers at their convenience. "If they're available at 3:15 and I can't find a commercial flight that accommodates their schedule, I can use a private aircraft," he said.
But charters are not used only for corporate travel. Michael Carpenter, 34, an account executive at Keynote Systems in San Mateo, Calif., along with 21 friends, chartered a plane from eJets in August to attend a weekend bachelor party in Las Vegas. "It was $600 per person, only a few hundred dollars more than if we had bought airline tickets at the last minute," he said.
David Catalano, 35, chief executive of Midwest Bankers, a commercial finance company based in Indianapolis, chartered a plane from Skyjet in July to take his family on vacation to Atlantic City. Although the charter cost $14,000 -- more than double what he would have paid had they traveled first class on a commercial airline -- he said it was worth every penny.
At the end of the vacation, Mr. Catalano became stuck in traffic on the way to the airport. If the family had had tickets on a commercial airline, "we would have been toast," he said. "But they were waiting for us," he added of the charter. "With chartering, you're basically buying your way out of stress."
 
Have Jet, Will Travel: Some of the Services
 
HERE are a few key players in the air-charter services business:
* Air Partner Inc. of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 954-359-4300 or 212-252-1002
(www.airpartner.com).
* CharterHub.com of Toronto, 877-819-5040 (www.charterhub.com).
* EBizJets Inc. of Hingham, Mass., 888-393-2853 (www.ebizjets.com).
* EJets.com of Aliso Viejo, Calif., 877-463-5387 (www.ejets.com).
* FlightTime.com of Waltham, Mass., 888-242-7837 (www.flightime.com).
* Indigo of Chicago, 877-446-3446 (www.flyindigo.com).
* MyJets.com of Memphis, 877-669-5387 (www.myjets.com).
* Skyjet of Washington, 888-275-9538 (www.skyjet.com).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc Herring, a marketing and advertising executive, has used a charter service seven times this year for his employees and clients. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIR CHARTER SERVICES (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIR FARES (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: JOHN T MYERS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



628 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Chrysler PT Cruiser;
'Le Jimmy Cagney Car' Makes a Big Bang in France

BYLINE: By KEITH MARTIN

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
JUST outside the cathedral at Mont-St.-Michel on the Normandy coast, a school bus pulled up. Elementary school children rushed en masse to the windows, pressed faces to the glass and shouted enthusiastically, "Le Pe-e-e-e Te-e-e-e! C'est magnifique!"
It wasn't the first time that happened during a family trip through France in a Chrysler PT Cruiser -- nor would it be the last. Attracting curious onlookers was a regular occurrence. 
 Americans tend to think of France as having good wines and bad cars, enjoying the Bordeaux and Burgundies, but viewing vintage Peugeots, Citroens and Renaults with a frisson of distaste. No new French cars have been sold in the United States since Peugeot left in 1991, undone by Gallic refusal to cater to Yankee whims and an insouciant approach to mechanical reliability.
Conversely, of course, the French profess disdain for many things American. We eat too much and dress too badly, and don't fully appreciate Mickey Rourke or Jerry Lewis. But the French love Detroit cars, providing they have tailfins and were built before 1961.
It was thus particularly gratifying to find, as an American in Paris, that such tough critics considered the PT Cruiser to be tres bon. Even amid demonstrations against McDonald's and attempts to strip English words from the French lexicon, most of the people we encountered embraced the PT's pugnacious design and its thoroughly American flair.
In the United States, the car is viewed by many as a cute, practical minivan, with little attention paid to its performance. "You're going to go to Europe to drive a rebodied Neon?" a friend who owns a Porsche said with a sniff, recycling a common but largely incorrect assumption about the car's origin. "Be careful you're not blown off the road by all the Mercedeses and BMW's."
True, most American cars fall flat on their tires on the Continent. They are too big for medieval streets, and, thanks to suspensions tuned for straight and level American freeways, lack the precise handling and agility that Europeans expect. And they gulp too much fuel in countries where gasoline costs up to $5 a gallon.
But over the course of 10 days and 1,500 miles, the PT Cruiser defied those stereotypes. Europeans greeted it enthusiastically, a good sign for DaimlerChrysler as it tries to sell the car overseas. While the PT was originally designed for both domestic and export markets, foreign distribution is being held back by a lack of production capacity in Mexico, where all PT's are built, coupled with strong demand in North America.
Our first test car was waiting at Charles de Gaulle airport; equipped with an automatic transmission, it lacked the verve that one would like in heavy Parisian traffic. Two days later, we got a second car that proved much more capable, an upscale Touring Edition with an engine that is not available in American PT's: a 2-liter, 140-horsepower, dual-overhead-cam four cylinder. (Cars sold in the United States come with a 162-horsepower, 2.4-liter engine.) The second car, with its five-speed manual transmission, held its own in Paris, where every roundabout becomes a Nascar-style circle-track event, cars bobbing and weaving for position.
The dark-green Touring Edition had four-wheel
antilock disc brakes, flashy alloy wheels and fat 16-inch tires. Dealer-installed accessories included a Becker navigation system ($2,150) and a parking sensor ($285).
The base price for the Touring Edition, in France, was 129,900 francs, about $16,600 at current exchange rates. With the options, the price of the test car was about $19,000.
I had not had much luck with navigation devices in the United States, finding them cumbersome to use. But the Becker system was a masterpiece of simplicity. It made finding our destinations in Europe, often an exercise in frustration, painless.
In addition, we had acquired a cellular phone compatible with European standards, so that if friends dialed our home number in Oregon, the phone rang in France. We learned to turn it off at night. ("Hello. Oh, you're in Paris and it's 3 a.m. there? Sorry.")
The navigation system and the cell phone proved useful from the start. In Paris, we plunged right into the helter-skelter of roundabouts and confusingly labeled streets, as we tried to find the home of friends on Avenue President Woodrow Wilson. Forty-five minutes after entering the street address into the computer, we arrived, having made only a few unnecessary passes around the Arc de Triomphe.
The PT Cruiser is the right size for Europeans, a midsized vehicle by their standards, although it seems huge next to the diminutive Smart cars that now visually punctuate the streets of European cities. Our friends had just bought a Smart, and insisted, in a manner appropriate for expatriates, that we have a drag race down the Champs-Elysees. (The PT won.)
From Paris we headed to the D-Day beaches of Normandy, following the A-13 Autoroute, a freeway on which the PT cruised comfortably at 140 to 160 kilometers an hour -- about 85 to 95 m.p.h. The posted limit was 130 k.p.h., but no one paid heed. Indeed, we saw the motorcycle-riding freeway police just once, a group of six near a toll booth. (Were they having, in lieu of coffee and doughnuts, their morning espresso and croissants?)
There is a pecking order on European highways. Cars that are tiny or tinny (or both), bearing names like Renault Clio, VW Lupo and Citroen 2CV, plod along in the slow lane; larger cars like the Audi A6 and Lancia Thema occupy the middle; and rarely seen German luxury cars zoom by on the left. The PT alternated between the middle and left lanes, motoring effortlessly at 90 m.p.h. but moving over when a rocket -- usually black and wearing BMW or Mercedes logos -- rushed up from behind with headlamps flashing.
The fuel economy was decent enough; we averaged 24 m.p.g. We added a quart of oil, expensive at $10.25. All told, gas and oil for the trip cost about $300.
The PT Cruiser's big tires and protruding nose gave the car a slightly menacing look; at the Grand Hotel in Dinard, when the doorman saw the car he immediately imitated a Prohibition-era gangster with a tommy gun, delightedly proclaiming: "Le Jimmy Cagney car! Bang bang bang bang." Then, he whipped out his cell phone and invited his friends over to take a look.
After Dinard, we made a stop in the walled city of St.-Malo. Parking the PT was no problem, as it fit easily into the small European spaces. But moving through the crowds that surrounded the car took some time.
Our next stop was a 15th-century chateau in Marcay, not far from Chinon (where Joan of Arc encouraged the dauphin, who later became King Charles VII, to reclaim France from the English). Leaving St.-Malo, we entered Marcay into the navigation system; four hours later, at the end of a winding, one-lane road, we arrived.
In a country that loves style, the PT was a hit. It was immediately recognized, having recently made the cover of several magazines. Everyone wanted to see inside and to sit behind the wheel. We were asked questions about its fuel economy and the size of its gas tank. (At 15 gallons, Europeans said it could be larger.)
The interior proved efficient. There were nooks and crannies everywhere to stick the odd bits of paraphernalia that one accumulates on vacation; brochures, unused maps, empty pop cans and so on. My 9-year-old daughter, Alexandra, a child of the cup holder generation (GenCup?) had some complaints: in the back seat, she couldn't reach her drink, resting in a holder in the back of the center console, without unbuckling her belt, and she had to operate the power window switches, also on the back of the console, with her toes.
When it comes to luggage, I, my daughter and my wife, Cindy, travel like Hannibal crossing the Alps. We arrived with four bags, each large enough for a week's worth of costumes for a member of the New York City Ballet on tour. That luggage fit snugly in the car, with the entire back seat still upright.
By the end of our two weeks, after we had stopped at the equivalent of Wal-Mart to buy two more suitcases, we had to fold down part of the rear seat to make room for them. Our bags swelled with necessary souvenirs like the bottle of 1989 Chateau Mouton-Rothschild that we found at a weekend market for $200.
The bellman who helped us load the car at Chateau de Marcay could not hide his amazement at the amount of luggage we had. I am sure he checked our room to make sure we weren't taking the bedding and a nightstand or two back to America.
On the last day, we made a 300-mile dash to Brussels. Again, we entered the destination, and six hours later arrived at the airport hotel, tired from the trip but not weary from trying to read foreign maps. The simple, straightforward navigation system simply removed one of the great challenges of driving abroad: figuring out where you are and where you are going.
The PT is a good car in America, and it is an even better car in Europe. The roads and traffic patterns allow it to make use of its extremely competent engine and suspension, cruising at speeds that would give you a lifetime of speeding tickets in the United States. The engine likes to be worked, and develops much of its power above 4,000 r.p.m. In America, most driving is done below that, as we putter around town or cruise at 65 m.p.h.
We had expected the PT's styling to create a small spectacle wherever we went -- and it did. But we hadn't expected its mechanical components to hold their own so well in Europe, where cars are driven aggressively, with their brakes and suspensions getting a serious workout every day. The competence of the PT Cruiser's underlying platform was a surprise. In this case, beauty was more than skin deep.
 
INSIDE TRACK: C'est Americain! C'est formidable!
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Keith Martin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UGB (BXS) (90%); UGB (BRU) (90%); UG (PAR) (90%); PEU (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NORMANDY, FRANCE (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: PEUGEOT SA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); GASOLINE (60%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: MICKEY ROURKE (55%); JERRY LEWIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



629 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: The World;
How to Commit the Perfect Dictatorship

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN

 BODY:
THE Southeast Asian country formerly known as Burma may not be a perfect dictatorship, but it's as close to perfection as is humanly (or perhaps inhumanly) possible at the beginning of the 21st century.
Myanmar is more insulated from outside pressure than North Korea because it can almost always feed its own people. It attracts far less international criticism than Iraq because it is not so anvil-headed as to invade its neighbors or go to war with a superpower. And it's much less likely than China to be destabilized from within by the growing pains of high-tech prosperity. That's because it allows almost none of its citizens to prosper and the Internet is against the law. 
 There are a number of useful, if ugly, lessons to be learned by examining four decades of repression in Myanmar -- a reign of fear, poverty and isolation that, so far, shows no signs of coming to an end.
Outstanding achievement in the field of dictatorial misrule demands more than merely a willingness to commit murder to stay in power. This isn't to suggest that the generals who run Myanmar shy away from murder. Their troops killed at least several hundred pro-democracy demonstrators in 1988. According to the State Department, soldiers have since executed people unwilling or unable to work in forced labor gangs.
What separates the Burmese generals from lesser (and in many cases, former or dead) dictators is their thoroughness and creativity.
"They have effectively destroyed civil society," said Robert Helvey, a retired United States Army colonel who since 1992 has run training seminars in nonviolent resistance along the Thai-Myanmar border. "Burmese society has been atomized. People cannot come together for any purpose because all the organizations have been destroyed."
Whether it's being a Boy Scout or allowing a foreigner into your home, sending an unauthorized e-mail or gathering outdoors in groups larger than five, it is illegal in Myanmar and punishable by a long prison term.
Yet the generals are exceptionally flexible when it helps them hang onto power or attract foreign currency into the country's anemic economy. They have made a series of sovereignty-sharing deals with armed ethnic minority groups on the country's borders. These cease-fires have ended decades of war and freed the regime to focus its repressive talents -- and most of its 400,000 troops -- on the unarmed majority.
Since making all this carefully calculated peace, the generals have welcomed investment capital from ethnic minority groups that specialize in the sale of heroin and amphetamines. Many of the buildings erected in the country in recent years have been built with laundered drug money, according to the American embassy there.
The proven fragility of authoritarian leaders -- most recently in Serbia, but going back to the henchmen of apartheid in South Africa and to Eastern Europe's Communist bosses -- suggests that even the most repressive governments are vulnerable to mass democratic opposition.
"In general, the rule of thumb is the more brutal, the more brittle," said Dr. Peter Ackerman, an expert on nonviolent resistance and the principal content advisor to "A Force More Powerful," a recent PBS series on the triumphs of nonviolence in the 20th century.
But that rule of thumb doesn't seem to matter in Myanmar, at least for moment. "You have to distribute resistance to all strata of society and the Burmese people have not yet figured out a way to do this," Dr. Ackerman said. "Nonviolent resistance is a strategy that doesn't always work. I think the Burmese dictatorship is doing a good job at doing a bad job."
For purposes of comparison, it's worth noting that the failed regime of Slobodan Milosevic did a bad job at doing a bad job. In the run-up to the October election that Mr. Milosevic lost and then failed to steal, his regime seem to fall asleep at the dictatorial switch. It allowed opposition groups to organize and distribute literature in the smallest towns and villages in Serbia.
IN a display of half-hearted authoritarianism that would never pass muster in Myanmar, Mr. Milosevic ignored the power of the Internet to mobilize his opponents. He tolerated independent media outlets in the Serbian capital and in many other cities. He allowed foreign journalists to roam all over, sniffing out news that filtered back into Serbia via the Internet and independent news media.
Burmese generals know better. If they don't control it, they ban it. And the foreign press is kept out (unless they sneak in as tourists, as I did).
The generals in Myanmar have perfected a style of governance that limits information, sows distrust and prevents private misery from snowballing into mass political action. "The individual who walks out of his house in Burma in the morning is confronted with the overpowering control of the state," said Mr. Helvey, who periodically trains Burmese to go back inside their country and try to organize nonviolent action against the government. "People do not have a place to go to talk to each other because they know that there are informers everywhere."
The country, of course, has an immensely popular, articulate and internationally acclaimed opposition leader. But that leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, a winner of the Noble Peace Prize, is under house arrest, as she has been for more than 6 of the past 12 years. Nearly all the leaders of her opposition party are also locked up.
Locking up "the lady," as she is widely known in Myanmar, has all but paralyzed serious opposition to the generals, according to Mr. Helvey, who served as military attache in the 1980's at the American Embassy in Myanmar. Some of his current pro-democracy work is funded by the Albert Einstein Foundation, a Boston-based nonprofit group that supports nonviolent activism around the world. "Politics in Burma have always been personalized and Aung San Suu Kyi is the symbol of the entire pro-democracy movement," said Mr. Helvey. "Without her, the movement has not demonstrated the ability to take on a strategic struggle."
The dictators in Myanmar are also geographically lucky. Positioned between China and India, two huge and antagonistic neighbors, the regime has been able to play on their mutual suspicions to acquire cheap arms and make favorable trade deals.
More than anything else, though, it seems to be single-mindedness that allows the generals to remain at the top of their game.
In the mid-1990's, they flirted with the Chinese model of combining openness to technology and foreign investment with continued political repression. That experiment, though, gave substantial economic power to people who had no loyalty to the regime.
"The generals decided, 'Uh-oh, we can't tolerate this,' " said Mr. Helvey. "They seem to be going back to isolation. They aren't trying to have it both ways."
In the past two years, the military has taken over scores of profitable foreign-owned companies and hundreds of businessmen have fled the country. In a perfect dictatorship, things are getting back to normal.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Refugees in a bomb shelter in 1998 after guerillas allied with Myanmar's government shelled their camp. (Associated Press); A young rebel from the Karen National Union insurgent army near the Thai border last January. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: PERFECTION AS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MURDER (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ARMIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); MONEY LAUNDERING (61%); ETHNICITY (60%); HEROIN (60%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



630 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: The Election;
Trying to Escape the Purgatory of Parity

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
BACK in headier times when George W. Bush was first stepping onto the stage as the Republican Party's putative savior from the southwest, Karl Rove, the Texas governor's chief strategist, liked to draw grand parallels with William McKinley and prophesy that the 2000 election would be as historically significant as the election of 1896.
Like Newt Gingrich before him, Mr. Rove, a history buff, was fascinated by how McKinley and the political king maker, Mark Hanna, produced a new and enduring Republican majority by recognizing that the Civil War issues that had dominated politics were no longer relevant to a rapidly industrializing nation entering a new century. 
 McKinley assembled a new political coalition that included both the new industrialists and their workers, the millions of immigrants pouring into the nation. As a result the Republican Party went on to dominate the Presidency for most of the next three decades. Similarly, Mr. Rove liked to say, his candidate would prove the McKinley of the new century, expanding the Republican Party base by drawing in Hispanics, suburbanites and independents.
Of course, as every poisonously partisan new day of the presidential standoff makes clear, Mr. Rove and Mr. Bush failed to create that commanding new majority. And in their failure they are in good company.
Eight years ago when he defeated Mr. Bush's father, President Clinton thought his New Democratic promises of a third-way politics, neither conservative nor liberal, could effect such a grand realignment. Two years later his party lost control of Congress and he was left scrambling further to the right.
Next came Mr. Gingrich, the man who brought House Republicans into power. He promoted his own brand of New Age conservatism, which he said would ensure American supremacy in the global economy by cutting government bureaucracy while upholding traditional cultural values. But he and his allies also overplayed their hand. Bill Clinton was re-elected. And Mr. Gingrich was repudiated in the fires of Mr. Clinton's impeachment.
Now, with both parties at this extraordinary impasse, pollsters, intellectuals and party professionals are engaged in a desperate search for a way to get beyond parity. The old order, they say, is crumbling.
"I think what happened is that we have come to the end of the politics of the industrial age," said Al From, the head of the Democratic Leadership Council, the incubator of Democratic centrism. "The old New Deal alignment is finally gone, but as we come into the information age the new lines are not yet settled."
Perhaps the new political order cannot be forged without the pain of cultural dislocation. "I think historians generally say it takes some great crisis of one kind or another to break a political impasse in the parties, the Civil War being one of them," said Eric Foner, a Columbia University historian who studies Reconstruction.
"The 1890's is another example," Mr. Foner said, referring to the McKinley era. "In 1893 there began a big economic depression which really shifted votes very markedly to the Republican Party." He also cited the Great Depression, when Franklin D. Roosevelt began an era of Democratic rule.
Indeed, some politicians believe that the new alignments of the information age will be formed in recession and the backlash it might cause against the global economy. "If you have a downturn, the New Economy will find out who its friends are," said Representative Thomas M. Davis III, the moderate Virginia Republican who heads the House Republicans' re-election committee.
MR. Davis argues that it is his party, with its emphasis on free trade, small government, laissez-faire economics and distrust of organized labor, that will win the allegiance of technology entrepreneurs, small businessmen of all races, and suburban wired workers to create a ruling majority. "You get a cataclysmic event when the lines get drawn and the Democrats will go with their labor base and their underclass," he said.
MR. FROM contends, rather, that it's the New Democrats, with their emphasis on social tolerance, activist but limited government, global economics and more portable benefits, that will become the ruling majority for a nation growing more affluent and better educated. "I really think Clintonism or the third way is the formula for the information age," he said, arguing that Mr. Clinton's ideas never got a fair test because of the Lewinsky scandal.
Then again, not everyone thinks the global economy will be the main agent of change. At the New America Foundation, a Washington group dedicated to bringing new ideas to politics, Michael Lind, a senior fellow, said that the fiscal strain on the Medicare and Social Security systems and the dividing lines over how to deal with it might turn out to be the crisis that changes the political order. "The big question is, What kind of social safety net do we have?" Mr. Lind said. "How is it financed? How much of the economy does it take up? And right now each of the two parties have bits and pieces of the answer. To see a real realignment on this issue there would be a showdown over the question and my guess is Social Security or Medicare will drive it."
With so much uncertainty in the air, the first order of business may be to settle who controls each major party. Those internecine brawls are just beginning. New Democrats accuse Mr. Gore of abandoning them for old-style populism unsuited to the times, while liberals continue to bristle at the New Democrats' fiscal conservatism.
Among Republicans, conservatives are arguing that Mr. Bush should have relied more on energizing the party's conservative base. But others, including Mr. Gingrich, say the party has to work harder to reach Latinos, African-Americans and the young.
Which side will seize the future, and through what issues? No one knows. After this dead-heat election, politicians and voters alike find themselves, uncomfortably, "Wandering between two worlds," as Matthew Arnold once wrote, "One dead, the other powerless to be born."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: With no new president and no dominant party in Congress, Washington is a good place these days to meditate on life's vicissitudes. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); NEW AMERICA FOUNDATION (86%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW AMERICA FOUNDATION (86%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HISTORY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); KARL ROVE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



631 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Two Views of a Marked-Down Market

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE silver lining in the market sell-off this fall is that those worrisome -- yet often ignored -- high stock valuations have come down sharply. But have they fallen enough to warrant tossing whatever cash you have back into stocks?
According to Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the market, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, has not been this cheap since either the end of 1998 or the beginning of 1999, depending on the valuation measure. That is enticing, given that the Nasdaq composite index, heavy with technology, is down to 2,904, 42 percent below its record high in March. 
 One valuation measure, designed by Peter J. Canelo, a United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, shows that valuations have not been this low since October 1998, when the S.& P. 500 hit bottom after Russia defaulted on its foreign debt and the giant Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund collapsed. The second gauge, designed by Byron R. Wien, Morgan Stanley's other United States investment strategist, shows that valuations have not been at this level since January 1999, although they were lower in October 1998.
"The market, ostensibly, looks very, very cheap," Mr. Canelo said. "Instead of selling, people should be buying."
But there are reasons for pause. Mr. Canelo's gauge says the stock market is now about 22 percent undervalued while Mr. Wien's measure says the market is still about 12 percent overvalued. In other words, one gauge says the market is much cheaper and attractive while the other says the market is cheaper but not that attractive.
The main reason for the difference is in the gauges' assumptions for operating earnings growth over the next five years for the S.& P. 500 companies. Mr. Canelo assumes that earnings growth will average 12.5 percent; Mr. Wien assumes 9.8 percent, just above the 10-year average of 8.8 percent for the stocks that have been in the index.
Mr. Canelo says he chose the higher growth rate because the nearly 200 major changes in the components of the S.& P. 500 index over the last several years have increased its earnings potential. Based on the current index, he said, the prospective five-year earnings growth rate would be 14.8 percent. But partly because the 10-year average earnings growth rate for the 500 stocks now in the S.& P. is only 11.2 percent, he cut his prospective five-year rate to 12.5 percent.
The earnings outlook right now is even slower. According to First Call/Thomson Financial, which collects Wall Street earnings forecasts, the projected fourth-quarter growth rate for the S.& P. 500 has plunged to 10.7 percent from 15.6 percent on Oct. 1. The forecast for technology earnings has dropped to 16 percent from 29 percent. For next year, the overall forecast is down to 11.8 percent from 14.8 percent. Morgan Stanley's 2001 projection is at 10.4 percent.
And the economic environment is not as positive as it was in October 1998. By Nov. 17, 1998, the Federal Reserve, trying to ward off a financial crisis, had cut its benchmark interest rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 4.75 percent. The price of crude oil was below $12 a barrel and the Consumer Price Index was on a pace to climb just 1.6 percent that year.
Today, crude oil costs more than $35 a barrel. And the Fed, at its November policy meeting, indicated that rate cuts would wait until it was assured that inflation, at 3.4 percent in the last 12 months, was in check.
INVESTORS also have more reason to worry that the economy is in for a jarring hard landing, instead of the gentle one they want. Last week, the government reported that the trade deficit widened to a record in September -- a signal that the economy grew much more slowly than expected in the third quarter, according to Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company. Mr. Barbera expects third-quarter growth to be reduced to 1.7 percent, at an annual rate, from the 2.7 percent reported initially.
So the earnings outlook is likely to worsen, and the best valuation reading is between Mr. Canelo's and Mr. Wien's.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Cheaper, Yes, but Cheap Enough?"
The high stock valuations that have worried many investors recently have come down sharply, as shown by two measures using different earnings projections. But it still may be too early to jump back in.
 
Graph tracks the percent overvalued, percent undervalued, slower earnings growth model, and faster earnings growth model from 1990 through 2000
(Source: Morgan Stanley Dean Witter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (93%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); 

PERSON: PETER J CANELO (91%); BYRON R WIEN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



632 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Bittersweet Tasks in Cereal City

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BATTLE CREEK, Mich.

 BODY:
CARLOS M. GUTIERREZ, the chief executive of the Kellogg Company, knows something about risk.
His family fled Cuba in 1960 during the Communist revolution. He got early business training during an economic crisis in Mexico. And one of his first tasks as the top man at Kellogg early last year was to shut down a plant here in "Cereal City." 
 His biggest risk, however, may have come in orchestrating Kellogg's decision last month to spend $3.8 billion in cash to acquire the snack maker Keebler Foods in the hopes of remaking Kellogg as a diversified food company.
Mr. Gutierrez, who is trying to strengthen a company stung in recent years by slumping cereal sales and an eroding market share, said investors had to expect such risky ventures during difficult times.
"I don't think we have a choice," he said in an interview at his headquarters office here. "We have to find growth and we have to find it quickly, and that almost has to entail risk."
So Mr. Gutierrez, who took office 18 months ago, is bulking up Kellogg's snack and convenience food business, reshuffling management and reaching out to consumers by, among other things, stalking supermarket aisles.
"He goes to the grocery store to see how people shop," said Tim O'Day, a longtime friend and an executive at the Leo Burnett Company, Kellogg's advertising agency. "He wants to know what's happening in stores, what people are responding to."
Indeed, Wall Street analysts say Mr. Gutierrez, 47, has brought a fresh and open approach to Kellogg that had been lacking at the company.
"During the 1990's, Kellogg may have been the worst-managed packaged foods company I followed," said John McMillin, who studies the food industry for Prudential Securities. "I think Gutierrez is a major uptick from past management."
Friends and colleagues, who describe Mr. Gutierrez as quiet and reflective, said his management style was to soothe rather than to scold.
He is unpretentious, they say. During an interview at his office a few weeks ago, Mr. Gutierrez was dressed casually and spoke in even tones about returning to Cuba someday, about one of his corporate heroes (the late Robert C. Goizueta, the Coca-Cola chief and another Cuban refugee) and about the future of Kellogg.
Calling the Keebler deal "transformational," he discussed plans for innovative new products like Snack 'Ums, cereal-flavored snacks in canisters, and efforts to use the Internet to promote more traditional brands, like Frosted Flakes, Raisin Bran and Pop Tarts.
Mr. Gutierrez was born into a wealthy Havana family.
In the 1950's, his father owned a flourishing pineapple export company. But in 1960, after Fidel Castro came to power, everything changed. His father was jailed after arguing with Che Guevara, Mr. Castro's minister of industries.
"I recall the day he was taken," Mr. Gutierrez said. "I'll never forget the olive-green uniforms coming to the door and taking my father to the car."
Several hours later, after his father had been released, the family was ordered out of Cuba. They fled with $8,000 and 25 suitcases for Miami Beach, where, Mr. Gutierrez said, he began to learn English from a hotel bellhop.
"At the time, my father thought it would be over in a matter of weeks," he said.
But the Gutierrez family never returned to Cuba. His father steered the family through Florida, New York, Mexico and Florida again, all by the time Carlos was 17. "My father worked for 20 to 25 years trying to recreate Cuba and recreate his business there, and he was never able to do it," Mr. Gutierrez said.
In the early 1970's, when his father went to Mexico to start a business, he went along and taught English before finding a job at Kellogg's Mexican unit. He took business courses at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and married a young Mexican named Edilla. (They now have three children.) He was transferred to Battle Creek, where he began his corporate ascent.
William Lamothe, a former chief executive at Kellogg, recalled how Mr. Gutierrez, in his 30's, returned to Mexico in the mid-1980's and helped turn around a struggling plant.
"He was a young man when we took a chance," Mr. Lamothe said. "Basically we didn't have anyone else to put in Mexico. The products there were rated low," he added. "But he really turned that situation around."
Mr. Gutierrez was named executive vice president of Kellogg's Asian-Pacific operations in 1994, just weeks after his father died. Mr. Gutierrez said his father would have been proud.
"He was my confidant throughout my life," Mr. Gutierrez said.
He returned to Battle Creek in 1996 and was named president and chief operating officer in 1998. Six months later, with the shares of Kellogg plummeting, the company's board called a special meeting to appoint Mr. Gutierrez as chief executive, succeeding Arnold G. Langbo, who stepped down under shareholder pressure.
Rising to the top spot was bittersweet, Mr. Gutierrez said, because one of his first orders of business was to shutter some Kellogg factories and refocus its energies in a downsizing effort.
Kellogg had been upset by slumping cereal sales and evidence that consumers had turned toward private-label cereals and convenient breakfast foods like bagels and muffins.
Shares of Kellogg shot up, though, after Mr. Gutierrez was named chief executive. Many see him as approachable and accessible. (He does not play golf and is "a rabid Yankees fan," one colleague said.)
Of course, some Wall Street analysts say the honeymoon is now over, and they wonder about profits that remain lackluster.
"He's very personable and he understands foreign markets," Mr. McMillin said. "But he hasn't yet knocked the cover off the ball; they still haven't stopped losing global market share."
Mr. Gutierrez, though, points to the acquisitions of Worthington Foods, a maker of vegetarian fare, and Keebler, the No. 2 snack maker in the United States behind Nabisco, as bold moves. Cereal now accounts for 75 percent of the company's revenue; the goal is to get that down to 40 percent by 2004.
"Keebler gets us there," Mr. Gutierrez said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos M. Gutierrez faced difficulties when he took over at Kellogg. With cereal sales slumping along with stock prices, one of his first acts was to shut down a plant in Battle Creek, Mich. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: K (NYSE) (96%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (96%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (96%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (96%); LEO BURNETT CO INC (66%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SNACK FOODS (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (78%); SNACK FOOD MFG (76%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (75%); PACKAGED GOODS (75%); FOOD MFG (75%); MARKET SHARE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



633 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
I.B.M. Hews to Its Vision, Even as Growth Slows

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
THERE was a special guest star at I.B.M.'s annual fall meeting with analysts early this month in New York -- none other than Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the company's chairman and chief executive.
Mr. Gerstner, who usually meets with analysts only each spring, said he wanted to steal a few minutes to support his new senior management team before turning over the meeting to Samuel J. Palmisano, whom he promoted to president and chief operating officer -- and heir apparent -- in a shake-up last July. 
 Analysts figured that Mr. Gerstner knew he had some explaining to do. In the first six years after Mr. Gerstner took over, in the spring of 1993, I.B.M.'s stock was stellar, climbing from a low of $10.25 that summer to a peak of $137.88 in July 1999. Since then, though, disappointments had accumulated, on sales growth most of all.
When third-quarter revenue fell short of expectations this year, the stock slid below $100, closing at $99.75 Friday. I.B.M. was in the embarrassing position of reporting that net sales of $62.8 billion for the first nine months were actually down $600 million, or 1 percent, from the period in 1999.
It was not enough that I.B.M. continued its string of double-digit earnings gains in the quarter, despite its sales problems. No one questions that Mr. Gerstner, a former McKinsey consultant, has been a brilliant financial engineer since he arrived on the scene to pull I.B.M. back from the brink of collapse and disintegration.
But improving efficiency and spending billions on stock buybacks do little to convince Wall Street that I.B.M. has a sustainable strategy for exploiting its technological prowess and marketing power.
"He hasn't been able to move the revenue up and at the end of the day, that's what you've got to do," said Ulric Weil, a technology strategist at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company who has followed I.B.M. for 25 years. "If you can't grow revenue at double digits in the technology sector, investors worry about the future."
MR. GERSTNER'S few minutes at the meeting stretched out to more than 20, and he later participated in the question period. Combative as ever, he argued that I.B.M. was well on its way to global leadership in a huge, fast-growing e-business world. Only shortsighted analysts would pay much attention to the revenue shortfalls, he said, adding, "In my opinion, it has been a very good year for I.B.M."
For contrast, Mr. Gerstner turned to the recent trend of crashing dot-com companies. In a quick, I-told-you-so recap, he reminded analysts that 18 months ago, he described high-flying dot-com ventures as "fireflies before the storm."
He said I.B.M., meanwhile, had continued introducing products, expanding services and adding production capacity as part of a transition that began in 1993 to exploit the $1 trillion market for e-business software, hardware and services. Inevitably, he said, the e-business winners would be established institutions and companies that had long been I.B.M.'s core customers. "There is no new economy," he said of the Internet. "The wars haven't changed; it's just that somebody's invented gunpowder, and the one who uses it first will win the next battle."
Perhaps Mr. Gerstner's fervor was heightened by knowing that I.B.M.'s slide would soon cost him millions of dollars. The week after the meeting, he sold 700,000 shares, or about 9 percent of his holdings, for a total of $59.6 million as part of what I.B.M. called a regular program of tax planning and diversification.
Most analysts agree with much of Mr. Gerstner's assessment of where the company is headed and the steps it must take. Some doubt that I.B.M.'s lineup of servers for the Internet market is as strong as I.B.M. contends, in comparison with companies like Sun Microsystems and Hewlett-Packard. But they say the challenges are not comparable to those faced by giants like AT&T and WorldCom, which are talking about radically transforming themselves through divestitures and spin-offs -- or by I.B.M. itself in 1993, when John F. Akers, Mr. Gerstner's predecessor, hired Morgan Stanley to study similar steps.
"There's no question about the direction," said John B. Jones Jr., who follows I.B.M. at Salomon Smith Barney. "Pace is the issue."
The pace of growth is almost certain to pick up in the near term, if only because sales and earnings in future quarters will be compared to the sluggish results of this year. Mr. Gerstner is projecting "high single digits" revenue growth, not far under the overall information technology average of 10 percent to 11 percent. Some analysts expect the stock to bounce back to the $120-to-$130 range in 12 to 18 months.
It is not a unanimous view, of course. There are firm skeptics, like Bob Djurdjevic of Annex Research in Phoenix, who calls I.B.M.'s belief that customers will value its plumbing -- new hardware and software -- over that of competitors a major mistake. "They still think of themselves as a technology company, but no one cares about technology today," Mr. Djurdjevic said.
All that customers want, Mr. Djurdjevic contended, are the services that technology makes possible, like better handling of production and sales data. In his view, although I.B.M. is the world's largest computer services company, its culture has diverted it from a more focused, full-throttle attack on that market and has clouded its future. While slower-growing hardware and software businesses at I.B.M. generate the cash that allows Mr. Gerstner to keep buying shares and finance capital investment, the effort to maintain them is a threat to I.B.M.'s prosperity, Mr. Djurdjevic said.
Even those who endorse Mr. Gerstner's basic strategy worry that growth will falter. They point to I.B.M.'s serious problems in recent years in translating its strategy into business. "Poor execution has been upsetting Lou's projections too regularly," said Gary Helmig, an analyst at Wit SoundView.
I.B.M. has had unanticipated delays in closing software sales and pushed back by nine months its target for introducing features needed to make its new Shark data storage products useful for networked computers. Turning even good news into a mishap, it underestimated demand for its innovative microchips so badly that it ended up well short of capacity to meet orders. As a result, I.B.M.'s server group has had to wait in line behind some outside customers to get components needed to ship its newest large server computers, the zSeries 900.
"All the nails were committed to building other people's houses," Mr. Helmig said.
Henceforth, the primary responsibility for cutting down on such execution errors will be falling on Mr. Palmisano, 48. Stephen Dube, who follows the company for Wasserstein Perella Securities, said Mr. Palmisano's promotion by Mr. Gerstner, 58, had been 75 percent a matter of getting operations under control and 25 percent a selection of a potential successor.
Without shedding most of its traditional businesses, I.B.M. is too big to ever grow at a 20 percent clip again. But analysts say revenue growth can still creep past the industry average, into the low teens, without undermining earnings, assuming that Mr. Palmisano meets his mandate.
"We should be grateful for the consistency of the bottom line," said Laura Conigliaro of Goldman Sachs, adding that reliable profits made I.B.M. the closest thing to a good defensive stock in the technology sector now. "It's not broken. But the company has to show us revenue growth if it is going to be important in the future."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Samuel J. Palmisano, president and chief operating officer at I.B.M., will be responsible for ensuring that the company executes its strategy successfully. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Bright Future for Big Blue?"
Despite sluggish sales and the slump of I.B.M.'s stock price this year, analysts say the company can recover and show improved revenue growth.
 
REVENUE BREAKDOWN
HARDWARE '98: $36.1 billion
HARDWARE '99: $37.9 billion
HARDWARE '00*: $38.1 billion
HARDWARE '01*: $42.0 billion
 
GLOBAL SERVICES '98: 28.9
GLOBAL SERVICES '99: 32.2
GLOBAL SERVICES '00*: 33.4
GLOBAL SERVICES '01*: 37.5
 
SOFTWARE '98: 11.9
SOFTWARE '99: 12.7
SOFTWARE '00*: 12.7
SOFTWARE '01*: 14.3
 
OTHER '98: 4.8
OTHER '99: 4.8
OTHER '00*: 4.8
OTHER '01*: 4.8
 
TOTAL '98: $81.7
TOTAL '99: 87.5
TOTAL '00*: 89.1
TOTAL '01*: 98.6
*Projections
 
Graphs track the stock price of weekly sales and earnings per share from 1993 to 2000
(Source: Salomon Smith Barney; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AI (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (66%); ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); 

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



634 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2708 words

HEADLINE: New Retail Chiefs Face Ghosts of Profits Past

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
IT'S never easy being the new kid on the block. If it is Christmas and you are a retail executive, it's worse. Every move you make is scrutinized, tallied, weighed against your future.
Whether selling gold-sequined pants, plain microwaves or hot new MP3 phones, the nation's merchants have always seen the holidays season as a do-or-die time. The six weeks from Thanksgiving to Christmas bring in some 50 percent of most stores' revenue, and as much as 60 percent of profits, according to Jeffrey Feiner, a retail stock analyst at Lehman Brothers. 
 The 2000 holiday shopping season is shaping up to be the biggest pressure cooker in a decade. With the American economy flying high for the last decade, the holiday season has been all rum punch and mistletoe for retailers: sales have grown at 4 to 5 percent a year since the mid-1990's. But the dawn of the millennium has been rough: the stock market is volatile, gasoline prices have soared, interest rates are higher and consumers' appetite seems largely sated by earlier buying binges. And concern about the undecided presidential election is distracting shoppers just as the holiday season starts to peak.
Dan Barry, the chief retail economist at Merrill Lynch, is predicting "the worst Christmas for sales and profits since 1995" and the worst Christmas sales since at least 1990. In his latest holiday report, Mr. Barry predicted that comparable store sales at major retailing chains this Christmas season would rise only "a paltry 2.5 percent," half as much as they did last year.
Ouch. In recent months, the largest national retailers -- from Target to Gap Inc. to even the usually invincible Wal-Mart Stores -- warned that sales growth was slowing going into the fourth quarter. Consumers could scent a whiff of desperation in the air as some stores, trying to rev up spending, put up holiday decorations as early as September or offered early, aggressive promotions through coupons or other discounts.
In this turbulent year of all years, executive turnover at the top of the nation's retailers has been particularly high. Among those appointing new chief executives or chief operating officers were Wal-Mart, the country's largest retailer, and Wal-Mart.com; Sears, Roebuck, the largest department store chain; Kmart, the second-largest discounter; J. C. Penney, the second-largest department store chain; Toys "R" Us; Nordstrom; Lord & Taylor, a division of the May Company; Polo Ralph Lauren; and the Victoria's Secret catalog unit, a division of Intimate Brands.
"It is really unusual to have so many major, major broadline retailers with new C.E.O.'s," said George Strachan, retail analyst at Goldman Sachs.
Each new boss faces a very different task. H. Lee Scott Jr.'s responsibility, to stay on top of the well-oiled Wal-Mart colossus, is hardly the staggering challenge facing Charles C. Conaway as he moves to halt a slow sinking at Kmart. Each new executive brings a different range of experience and confidence to the task, and each has had a different amount of time to try to shape the holiday season.
Alan J. Lacy was a six-year veteran of Sears who had already tackled some of the company's worst financial messes before moving up to become chief executive on Oct. 1, but Roger Farah arrived at Polo Ralph Lauren after spending six years hawking sportswear at the former Woolworth, now Venator. Jeanne Jackson left Gap Inc. to become the chief at Wal-Mart.com last April, but Allen Questrom, formerly of Barneys, took the helm at Penney only in mid-September.
Whatever their backgrounds, the executives face a common challenge: Whether the expectation is fair or not, they have to make this Christmas a success.
"The financial market has a very short memory in terms of how long people are in their jobs," said Robert Kerson, president of the global retail practice at Korn Ferry, who conducted the recent searches that led to the hiring of Jane Elfers at Lord & Taylor and John Eyler at Toys "R" Us. "They've got to show improvement. They've got to build some momentum. They are going to be judged to some degree by the performance of this last quarter."
The difficulty is this: Everyone in the business knows that a new chief executive can do very little to improve sales at Christmas, especially if she or he arrives just weeks or months earlier. The vast bulk of merchandise is bought months in advance. The merchandising strategies, the advertising buys and the schedule for putting key products on sale are already choreographed.
They are all dealing with "inherited plans," said Herbert Mines, chairman of Herbert Mines Associates, an executive recruiting firm that specializes in retailing. "So the trick with Christmas is to make sure that the stores are well manned, that day-to-day advertising is good, that the merchandise gets into the stores. It's the execution part of the job."
Still, it would be folly not to take some sort of stand. So when four of these newly initiated executives were asked about their plans for making a difference this holiday season, they had answers. Surprisingly, perhaps, they were almost completely different.
 
Nordstrom
Reinvigorating Customer Service
In September, at a moment of crisis, Blake Nordstrom stepped to the presidency of the company that bears his name. Despite the boom in retailing, the company, based in Seattle and once a model of merchandising and service, has been struggling with disappointing sales and earnings. Its previous management team, the first to contain no family members, had taken many steps toward refashioning the stores -- from modernizing the clothing assortment to updating the computer system to allowing for centralized inventory and purchasing.
But the rapid moves created unrest among the chain's rank-and-file, who felt left out of the decisions in a system that increasingly concentrated decisions at headquarters.
While Mr. Nordstrom, representing the fourth generation of his family to run the business, thought that the company had perhaps gone too far out on fashion statements, alienating longtime customers, he also felt that re-energizing the sales force should be his No. 1 task.
In the days after his ascension, Mr. Nordstrom toured stores, meeting with some 4,000 employees in 10 days. Nordstrom's longstanding reputation -- for service and the personal relationship that its clerks are encouraged to develop with customers -- is a key point of differentiation in the market, he explained.
"If our people don't feel positive, customers are going to feel it immediately," he said. "You can't edict a smile or excellent service."
Mr. Nordstrom had been one of six company co-presidents until February, then president of the Nordstrom rack group, a major division. In his short tenure as chief, he has enacted or is considering changes both large and small, many of them in response to suggestions from his 10-day staff tour. He said, for example, that he intends to introduce soon a package that could increase compensation as well as incentives for sales associates.
Beyond that, he said, he is using the resources of headquarters "to remove barriers, real or perceived, between sales people and customers."
In response to complaints by employees that the worst way to hurt a customer relationship is to be out of stock on a desired item, Nordstrom is testing an Intranet service in two regions. It will allow sales staff at one store to post needed items on a central computerized list that all stores can check -- eliminating the need to call stores one at a time. "This is a Band-Aid to help out sales people until we have a system that is more appropriate," Mr. Nordstrom said. In contrast to the practice of previous years, clerks receive additional compensation when they find the product in another store and make a sale.
In another change, customers no longer have to pay delivery charges when items are out of stock in one store and available for purchase from another.
Last month, the stores also made consumer-friendly changes to a credit certificate program. Originally, customers could accumulate points by making purchases through the Nordstrom credit card, eventually earning a gift certificate that could be redeemed only for merchandise. Now, the customer can use the certificates against a credit-card account balance. "These are all small changes," Mr. Nordstrom said, "but when you add them they signal a 100 percent commitment to the customer."
 
Wal-Mart.com
It All Comes Down To Fundamentals
The leviathan of the retail world has not led a charmed life online. Started in 1996, Wal-Mart.com lagged behind other virtual powerhouses like Amazon.com and eToys.com in attracting customers and building a significant revenue stream. In the summer of 1999, Wal-Mart.com announced that it was undergoing a major overhaul for the holidays; in fact, it did not get its revamped version up and running until January 2000. But soon after, Wal-Mart, determined to tackle the problem more systematically, spun off the site into an independent entity with venture capital backing. In April, it brought in Ms. Jackson, a well-respected retailer, who most recently had been running Banana Republic and Gap Online, to be chief executive of its online arm.
Ms. Jackson found that some of her long-term goals were at odds with her holiday wish list. In October, she shut down Wal-Mart.com for almost a month while it switched to a new technology platform; the timing of the move caused worried murmuring among analysts.
Acknowledging that it was "risky" to close up shop for a month during the run-up to the holidays, she said that the costs of operating the old Web site while she worked to start the new one were prohibitive. "It was just better business to devote 100 percent of staff effort to the new system," she said.
But knowing full well the importance of the Christmas season, she set out to improve her site accordingly. Last holiday season, on-time delivery and customer responsiveness had been a trip wire for the site. Yet while Wal-Mart.com broke ground on a new fully automated fulfillment center this summer, it will not be nearly ready this December. So Ms. Jackson hired a team to work with the third-party contractors that handled the order-taking and package delivery.
"We have to make sure that when the customer orders something, that order gets sent to the distribution center immediately," she said. "And we had to make sure the mechanisms were in place that, in case that did not happen, we caught it."
Another big push involved visibility. "I do not think we hit the customer's radar screen," she said of previous holiday seasons. To remedy that, she focused on promoting the hot products, like scooters, that she knew consumers would want this year. The scooters have been featured prominently in store circulars, television advertising and online marketing programs.
Wal-Mart's November circular, distributed to roughly 90 million people, advertised that certain key products were available at Wal-Mart.com as well as in the stores. The move paid off when pool tables, for example, priced at $188, sold out quickly at the stores but were still available online.
"This is all nuts and bolts," Ms. Jackson said, "but there was not enough focus on it last year."
 
Sears, Roebuck
An Energy Boost At a Fashion Show
A week ago Wednesday, barely six weeks into the job, Alan J. Lacy stood before 3,500 Sears employees and received an unexpectedly thunderous ovation. For the last five years, Sears had invited its employees to preview its Christmas advertising campaign. But Mr. Lacy, who took the helm of the enormous chain on Oct. 1, wanted to make a splashier effort to rally the troops.
So he staged a 45-minute runway show to the throbbing beat of Christina Aguilera, the teen pop sensation. To showcase the products that the company expects to be hot, Sears hired 18 model-dancers to prance down the aisle, displaying everything from negligees and boxer shorts to Craftsman screwdrivers -- the company expects to sell some 15 million of the tools in the fourth quarter. The audience went wild, showing an energy that Sears executives said they had not seen in years.
In many ways, Mr. Lacy faces the toughest job among the new retailing chief executives. For years, the venerable Sears has been slowly losing market share to aggressive discounters like Target and to fast-growing merchants like Kohl's. His predecessor, Arthur C. Martinez, started to clean up the company's dowdy fashion image, moved deeper into the hot home furnishings and appliance market and took several other obvious steps to help put the retailer back on track.
It is up to Mr. Lacy, who made his reputation by stopping losses in Sears's credit card business, to engineer new ways to make the vast chain leaner and more cost-efficient.
Stepping up to the chief's job as late as he did, Mr. Lacy said he knew he could only tinker around the edges with the programs in place, which he said pleased him.
That he has done. In response to the decision by Circuit City last summer to pull out of the appliances market, Mr. Lacy ordered new commercials to emphasize that Sears, which makes the popular Kenmore brand, should be the choice for shoppers.
Mr. Lacy also says he has been focusing on keeping the wheels of the Sears operation well-greased. "We have to make sure we really execute very well programs in place," he said. To do that, he is keeping a close eye on plans to keep the sales floors well-staffed, always a huge concern during the bustling holiday season, and the seasonal help well-trained.
Then there was that fashion show/ pep rally. "People are working day and night at headquarters to make sure things happen properly," he said. "We wanted to get people fully engaged in what is going to happen at the store level and also to go back to their desks happy."
 
Lord & Taylor
Making Big Bets On Best Sellers
From the moment that Jane Elfers became president of Lord & Taylor on June 1, "the holiday season was my first and foremost focus." she said. Despite the short time frame, she added, "you can have, I think I did have, an effect."
Lord & Taylor, the venerable chain with headquarters on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, has been struggling to remain hip and relevant in an overcrowded retail environment. While its peers boomed in recent years, Lord & Taylor saw its sales per square foot drop from $237 in 1997 to $218 in 1999.
Ms. Elfers is determined to turn around the trend quickly. As a veteran merchant, she has chosen to put all of her energies into the goods on the store shelves.
She assembled her team of buyers early last summer and asked them to predict what products would be big for the holidays. Then she bet big. When everyone agreed that leather was going to be a runaway hit for the season, she went department to department, asking how her stores could be bigger than ever in leather goods.
The answer was not only to expand coats and boots into color, but also to offer leather hats, leather scarves and leather accessories.
Animal hide was not exactly a secret this season, but Ms. Elfers said her team got behind other merchandise that other stores will not receive until spring, like flower pins and chain belts.
"Many manufacturers were not on the trend," she recalled of the shiny belts. "It is not like they were sitting around with this stuff. And we said, 'What can you do for us?' We placed huge orders, and it is doing wonderfully for us on the accessory floor."
Ms. Elfers said that once the key products were selected, the store followed up with promotions. "We made a lot more out of big items instead of doing a lot on many little items," she said. Leather is featured on the cover of the seasonal catalog and has been displayed prominently in direct mail promotions and print advertising.
"Every store chooses key products," she conceded. "But this year the difference for us was the intenseness of the focus. We were very, very intense." In a telephone interview, in fact, she sounded very, very intense -- and hopeful.
"I am very optimistic about the season," she said. "We are already seeing some nice results."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As sales growth slows, retailers' new chief executives see this holiday season as especially challenging. Shoppers checked a display at Saks Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The 2000 holiday season is shaping up as the biggest battle in a decade for retailers. At the front lines, shoppers waited at the glove counter in Saks. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times); A New Set of Faces, Minding the Store -- Unusually high turnover has left many of the nation's big retailers with new chief executives; Alan J. Lacy, Sears, Roebuck.; Charles C. Conaway, Kmart.; Allen Questrom,. J.C. Penney.; Blake Nordstrom, Nordstrom.; Jane Elfers, Lord & Taylor. (Philip Greenburg for The New York Times); John Eyler, Toys "R" Us.; Jeanne Jackson, Wal-Mart.com. (Associated Press)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "A Blue Christmas?"
After years of big gains during the holiday season (November and December), sales growth at department and general merchandise stores is slowing.
Graph tracks gains from 1990 to 2000
(Source: Merrill Lynch)(pg. 12)
 
"Falling Prospects"
Retail stocks have generally been falling since April this year.
Graph tracks Standard & Poor's Retail Stores Composite Index from Jan to Nov
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (81%); WMT (NYSE) (67%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (67%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (51%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GAP INC (81%); WAL-MART STORES INC (67%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); TOYS 'R' US INC (51%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRISTMAS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); THANKSGIVING (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); OIL & GAS PRICES (52%); GASOLINE PRICES (52%); 

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (79%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); BLAKE W NORDSTROM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



635 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Reed G. Bender;
Bender Growth Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
WHAT'S a growth manager to do when the market favors value stocks? Stick to his guns, said Reed G. Bender, lead manager of the $78.7 million Bender Growth fund.
"Managers get in trouble when they try to shift investing styles to take advantage of market momentum," Mr. Bender said from his office in Pasadena, Calif. As for the current value slant of the market, he added: "I don't think that the rotation will last. When the market calms down, it will come back to technology because that's where the growth is." 
 About 50 percent of the fund's holdings are in technology, a relatively steady stake since the fund began in 1996. The fund is part of the Santa Barbara Group of Mutual Funds.
The approach has paid off. The fund's Class C shares, which carry no upfront charges but relatively high expenses, returned 49 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Nov. 21, compared with 21.2 percent for its peers in the midcap growth category, according to Morningstar Inc. Since the Nasdaq peaked on March 10, the fund dropped 25 percent, compared with 27.8 percent for the group.
In trolling for growth among the 10,000 companies whose stocks are traded in the United States, Mr. Bender, 32, receives advice from his father, Robert L. Bender, 63, who owns the investment advisory firm that steers the fund. The list is trimmed to 2,000 by zeroing in on companies that the younger Mr. Bender expects to have revenue and earnings-per-share growth of at least 20 percent a year over the next five to seven years.
Next, he looks for the fastest-growing areas of the economy. His two current themes are corporate outsourcing and Internet infrastructure, including networking, data storage and online security.
"We think the existing network is inadequate for data transmission, and will not scale to the greater speeds that businesses will demand in the future," Mr. Bender said. "Selected companies involved in the buildout have a large opportunity ahead as they replace the network."
He spends the rest of his time looking for the two best companies -- generally, the market leaders in sales and profitability -- in each high-growth industry. Information is gleaned by visiting companies, attending growth-stock conferences and speaking to company managers, competitors and suppliers.
High valuations do not scare him away. "Because most of the industries we look at are growing 40 to 50 percent a year," he said, "we think the market leaders should sell at a premium" on a price-to-earnings basis. Over all, the companies in the portfolio sell for about 40 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with a multiple of 26 for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
He aims to hold stocks for five to seven years, an eternity for many highflying technology issues. Turnover averages a measly 12 percent a year, versus more than 100 percent, on average, for diversified United States stock funds.
The long holding periods give him an edge, he added. "Wall Street has had a hard time valuing companies that grow that quickly for that long," Mr. Bender said, explaining that analysts tend to undervalue potential earning power. "I think that's the case for many high-quality technology companies in the market today."
Even so, he stays away from companies that he says are "priced for perfection," with price-to-earnings multiples that are not justified by their growth. "If earnings per share slip at all in the next couple of years, you'll see the multiple compress significantly," he said.
Mr. Bender may sell a stock when he figures that the company cannot consistently grow 20 percent annually. That may be because of an eroding market for its products, industrywide problems or the company's own deteriorating financial performance.
AMONG Internet infrastructure companies, one of his favorites is Check Point Software Technologies, of Redwood City, Calif., which designs and makes Internet security software. "We think Internet security will become a bigger issue as more companies do business online," he said. He expects the company to grow 50 percent a year in the next three years.
The company is a market leader in firewalls, software that prevents unauthorized computer access, and in virtual private networking, which lets companies connect remote locations securely. Checkpoint is also a bet on the growth of Internet connections like D.S.L. and cable modems, which are more vulnerable because users are always connected to the Internet. The fund bought shares in December 1996 at a split-adjusted price of $5.21. On Friday, they closed at $116.63.
Mr. Bender expects another Internet infrastructure holding, Qualcomm, to have annual growth of 50 percent over three years, driven partly by its proprietary C.D.M.A. technology, for code division multiple access, used by wireless telecommunications companies. "We believe C.D.M.A. will eventually become the dominant standard for transmitting wireless data," he said.
The fund bought Qualcomm stock at a split-adjusted price of $38.86 in August 1999; it is now at $84.50.
Mr. Bender also likes outsourcing investments, like Paychex of Rochester. He figures that the company, which provides payroll services like check-writing and administration, can grow 28 percent a year over the next three years.
"We're in an environment where companies have very little room to raise prices, so they're looking to become more productive by outsourcing," he said. As for Paychex, he added, "they're the leader in the business, and they're using their strong cash flow to cross-sell services to their existing customers." His fund bought shares in January 1997 at a split-adjusted price of $10.67. On Friday, the stock closed at $58.94.
The fund's expenses are relatively high -- 2.98 percent a year for Class C shares that carry no upfront sales charge, or load, but have a 1 percent charge for sales within a year. Class A shares, with an upfront charge of 5.75 percent, have annual expenses of 1.85 percent. Mr. Bender says the fund's expenses are falling as it grows.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reed G. Bender, right, manager of Bender Growth, with his father, Robert, at Bed, Bath and Beyond. The fund owns stock in the chain. (Ed Carreon for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Bender Growth"
Category: Midcap growth
Net assets: $78.7 million
Inception: December 1996
Manager: Reed G. Bender since inception
Minimum purchase: $2,500 ($1,000 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 12%
3-year annualized return through Nov. 22 (Class C shares): 49.0%
Category average: 21.2%
 
Sector breakdown
Retail: 18.2%
Health care: 17.7%
Services: 13.4%
Technology: 49.4%
Energy: 1.3%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: 1%
12b-1 fee: 1%
Expense ratio: 2.98%
 
Note: Class A shares carry 5.75% front-end load, with 1.85% expense ratio.
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (62%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (62%); 

PERSON: ROBERT L BENDER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



636 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Help Us on Tuition

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Universities have reaped numerous benefits by investing their endowments (news article, Nov. 19). The enormous stock returns of the last few years have allowed the purchase of new equipment, the hiring of faculties and the construction of buildings at schools around the country. At the same time, however, the cost of college tuition has jumped at a rate greater than that of general inflation. 
 Has it ever occurred to these colleges to pass some of their new-found billions directly on to the students they are there to serve? Students appreciate the expensive programs and equipment, but what we really could use is a financial break.
 
LINDSAY ENDERS
Richmond, Ind., Nov. 20, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); STUDENT EXPENSES (88%); CONSTRUCTION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



637 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Who Pays the Payroll Tax?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In "A Retirement Plan That Wall Street Likes" (Economic View, Nov. 12), Louis Uchitelle suggested that an increase in the payroll tax -- now paid by employers and employees in equal amounts -- could help keep Social Security solvent in its current form for 75 years. Employers could pick up most of the increase, he said, if low-wage workers could not afford the extra burden. 
 However, economists across the spectrum believe that most if not all of the employer-paid portion of the payroll tax is shifted backward to labor, in the form of lower wages. So while a tax increase addresses the revenue side of the problem, it does so at the risk of exacerbating rather than redressing distortions and inequities found in the present system.
 
JULIUS CHANG
New York City, Nov. 13 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); 

PERSON: LOUIS UCHITELLE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



638 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Preparing Now To Fight Rural Wildfires

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho

 BODY:
Flush with $1.8 billion in new financing approved by Congress, five federal agencies are making efforts to better protect rural communities from wildfires like the ones that devastated Western states this summer.
"This is the first time in many years, perhaps ever, that the federal firefighting agencies have been fully funded," said Don Smurthwaite, fire information specialist at the National Interagency Fire Center here. 
 The money will allow the five agencies, including the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park Service, to buy more fire engines, helicopters and tanker planes, and hire more firefighters, smoke jumpers and support workers.
Money will also be used to increase prescribed burning and tree thinning to reduce hazardous fuels around rural communities in the West. Some of the money will be spent on environmental restoration. And local fire departments will be able to apply for federal grants to buy more engines, hoses and radios to improve firefighting efforts in remote areas.
"There were huge concerns in the West last summer when fires were burning really close to communities and we lost a lot of structures," said Jack Sept, chief of external affairs for the Bureau of Land Management at the fire center. "Our people are trained to fight wildland fire and they end up trying to save structures, and the local fire departments are trained to protect structures and they're out there trying to fight wildfire."
Under the new plan, federal fire officials will form partnerships with small communities that are deemed by state fire marshals to be the most threatened by wildfires. Federal authorities will help train local firefighters and help fire districts apply for grants to buy extra equipment.
"There's a large need for those funds," said Brian Shiplett, Idaho's chief of fire management. "Some of those small fire departments have to raise money through a bake sale to buy a new fire hose."
Stan Davis, the mayor of Salmon, Idaho, said he was relieved to see more money for firefighting. "It was a miserable summer," said Mr. Davis, whose community endured 53 days of heavy smoke, with the threat of the nation's largest wildfire, the 195,000-acre Clear Creek blaze, burning in the mountains above town.
"I will feel safer, and the community will feel safer, knowing there will be more resources available for fighting fire," he said. "The economic side of it could be positive, too, if they provide new jobs."
Mr. Sept said the bureau would add 500 firefighters, converting 400 temporary fire-season jobs to full-time year-round jobs, hiring new 20-person crews in Colorado, Idaho, Nevada and Utah, and adding 20 new smoke jumpers at the fire center.
The Forest Service will add more crews as well, but the exact numbers were not available.
New fire crews and equipment will help ease the strain on the nation's firefighting resources during heavy fire seasons, Mr. Sept said. Last summer, all federal fire workers -- about 25,000 people -- were assigned to fires in August, and there were times when new fires erupted but no extra crews were available.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wildfires like this one in Montana's Bitterroot Valley hit much of the West this summer. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (61%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); FIRES (92%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (91%); FOREST FIRES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); WILDERNESS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); LAND RECLAMATION (71%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (69%); HELICOPTERS (55%); 

PERSON: JACK SEPT (77%); STAN DAVIS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



639 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: As Closets Bulge, Americans' Taste in Gifts Often Turns Toward the Taste Buds

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: TYSON'S CORNER, Va., Nov. 25

 BODY:
Ask the holiday shoppers who are already pouring through the malls that serve prosperity-enriched America what they want for gifts, and many just groan. Their closets, drawers, attics and garages are bursting with the bounty of affluence, they say, and except for the young, they have just one locale left. That is their stomachs.
"What are you going to do?" asked Julie Biggs, 45, a legal secretary who was pausing for coffee at the Tyson's Corner Center mall, the largest serving the nation's capital and its thriving suburbs in Maryland and Northern Virginia. "Not give you presents because you've got too much stuff?" Food might work, she said, adding: "My husband wants to know what I want. I don't know. I've already got a stack of handbags." 
 The economy may finally have slowed, the stock market may have plunged, and more than 11 percent of the population remains mired in poverty. But with wages still rising and nearly all who want to work working, most consumers have met their basic needs and have something extra to spend. In areas like this, many in the largest group of consumers, the baby boomers, have amassed all they can use, so they ask for gifts they can use up, like candles, flowers, lotions and, above all, food.
Danny Doyle, 47, a plumbing supply salesman from Staunton, Va., was sipping a cup of designer coffee at the mall while his wife and 21-year-old daughter browsed through Nordstrom's. "I don't need shirts," he said. "I don't need sweaters. I don't need shoes. Teas, coffee, a bottle of wine, a gift certificate to eat out. Something you can use, get a little enjoyment out of it and get rid of it."
At an adjacent table, Peter Kolar, a retired Foreign Service officer, said he was baffled about what to give and wary of what he would get. "I have a drawer full of wallets," he said. "I have 15 sweaters and two I wear." He likes books, but after looking around the mall's new specialty food stores, he said, "maybe one of those baskets with some cheese and some sausage."
There is no way to measure how much of the nation's food, candy, wine and liquor is bought for gifts, but there is little doubt of a holiday-driven surge in demand. "Many people, if certainly not all, have more disposable income," said David Hodess, president and chief executive of Cooking.com, a 2-year-old Internet company in Santa Monica, Calif., that sells kitchenware and 1,500 food items, including truffle oil and saffron.
"People have a lot of stuff already, and they are looking for an alternative," Mr. Hodess said.
Lori Iventosch-James, economic research director for Harris Interactive, a market research company that conducts the Harris Poll, said that after a rise in Internet food and wine sales last year, "I think we'll see a substantial increase again this year."
To respond, many malls' newest stores, like the 90 that Harry & David, the old fruit-of-the month catalog company of Medford, Ore., has opened in recent years, carry vastly expanded lines of food.
Karen Ponciano, manager of the company's 3-month-old outlet at Tyson's Corner, said her best sellers were five-pound boxes of pears, for $24.95, and boxes of 24 chocolate truffles, for $19.95. "In this area," she said, "there's quite a lot of expendable income and not a lot of price resistance."
Through catalogs, stores and the Internet, 83-year-old Omaha Steaks, long a supplier of nothing but beef, now carries crab cakes, chicken and lamb. More lines have meant more sales, from $180 million in 1997 to $254 million last year, said Sharon Bargas, a company spokeswoman. "We're for those who are hard to buy for, as well as those who have everything," she said.
Many other companies, most identified with other goods, have started or expanded sidelines of food. Most of a wall of the new two-story L.L. Bean outlet at Tyson's Corner is stocked with food, like garlic tortilla chips and blueberry sour cream coffee cake, in addition to old standbys like pancake mix and maple syrup.
Crate and Barrel, the home furnishings chain with outlets at other malls, now sells pesto, apple pie filling, salad dressing and balsamic vinegar. Plow and Hearth, a catalog company in Madison, Va., has introduced a $79.95 mushroom kit, which produces three months of shimeji, shiitake and oyster mushrooms.
Williams-Sonoma, which has long carried a sideline of food with its pots and pans, toasters and blenders, has renamed some of its biggest, newest stores Williams-Sonoma Grand Cuisine. In them, food products occupy as much floor space as the gear used to prepare them.
Crabtree & Evelyn, the British supplier of lotions and soap, has introduced apricot-orange relish and chocolate-covered ginger shortbread. Routinely, said Karen Paone, a supervisor of the company's outlet at Tyson's, customers complain that the people they shop for have all they need. "We always say," she said, " 'Well, have you thought about giving them tea or cookies?' "
The Internet is fanning the trend. Older stores and catalog companies have opened Web sites, joining an explosion of exclusively Internet retailers like Wine.com, Cooking .com, Gourmet Market, Gourmet Resource and Fultonstreet.com. Wine.com in Napa, Calif., packs $20 to $60 holiday baskets of wine with cheese, fruit and stress-relief bath salts.
Chestnut Direct, a catalog and Internet debutante in Essex Junction, Vt., sells fully cooked, irresistible-looking meals under a Home Bistro label, most for prices below those of big-city restaurants.
An 18-ounce meal of New York strip steak with ginger-garlic sauce, sliced red potatoes and carrot puree is $15.95, and a 13-ounce meal of poached salmon fillet with asparagus, spinach fettuccine and a red pepper sauce is $11.95.
Chestnut Direct has staked its prospects on breakthroughs in packaging technology: it ships the meals in vacuum-sealed, flash-frozen packages, wrapped in dry ice, that the customer heats in simmering water. Most customers, said David Thompson, president of Chestnut Direct, order eight meals at a time, and 25 percent of the orders are gifts.
Other retailers have emerged to exploit the market for people who have everything, including the high toll of calories. For $25.95, Blessed Nutrition.com sells a 200-capsule bottle of an antidote called a "super fat burner." For $2.59, or 60 for $143.40, CarbSmart Inc. sells a two-ounce sack of "lean protein sour cream 'n' onion zero carb" chips.
For companies like Williams-Sonoma and Cooking.com, the business of selling food is a natural extension of selling pots and pans to increasingly affluent customers.
"People get more specialized," said Mr. Hodess of Cooking.com. "They might not have a fajita pan. They might have their basic cutlery, but nothing does the job on a tomato like a tomato knife."
At the extreme, there's Neiman Marcus, the upscale apparel chain that has long carried a sideline of holiday snacks. To serve the 250 grams of beluga caviar it sells for $139, it offers a $1,500 "presentoir." This is a 10-inch-diameter silver-plated bowl "supported," according to the catalog, "by a base of graceful sturgeons."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Retailers are increasingly promoting the idea for food as holiday gifts. Karen Ponciano, left, manager of the Harry & David Outlet at Tyson's Corner Center mall in Virginia, handed out samples of chocolate last week. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (66%); COOKING.COM (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (65%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



640 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 57; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Ruth Dyk, Champion of Women's Suffrage, Dies at 99

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Ruth Belcher Dyk, one of the last surviving participants in the women's suffrage movement, died in her apartment in Rochester on Nov. 18. She was 99.
In a life that included working with delinquent girls, writing three books on psychology and producing anthropological studies of Navajo Indians with her husband, she never lost her fierce commitment to equality. 
 Only the protests of family members prevented her from going door to door in her wheelchair to canvass for Hillary Rodham Clinton's senatorial campaign in New York this fall. "If I have learned one thing, New York needs a woman's touch," she said at rally for Mrs. Clinton on Aug. 22.
"My mother was a suffragette," she said in the opening line of the Ken Burns documentary on the suffragists, "Not for Ourselves Alone: The Story of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony," which was shown last year on the Public Broadcasting System. Her choice of word was surprising, said her daughter, Penelope Carter, of Rochester.
"The word suffragette reminded her of the Rockettes," Ms. Carter said. "She was a suffragist."
Mrs. Dyk's deepest inspiration was her mother, Annie Manson Belcher. She was one of the first women admitted to Tufts Medical School in the late 19th century, but school officials made her drop out when she married, Ms. Carter said. The free spirit of Mrs. Belcher, who by then was married to Arthur Fuller Belcher, a lawyer, is suggested by a family story of borrowing a minister's house for a Maine vacation. When a a house of ill repute next door burned down, Mrs. Belcher graciously invited the prostitutes to stay in the minister's house, engendering a local scandal.
Mrs. Dyk and her mother walked side by side down Beacon Avenue in Boston to demand the vote. Both were overjoyed when the 19th Amendment became part of the Constitution on Aug. 26, 1920.
"We had worked so long," Mrs. Dyk said in the documentary. "If you had worked years to do it, if you believed in it, if you thought great things were going to come out of it -- great in terms of the position of women in our culture, position of women in jobs, position of women everywhere -- and this was going to improve that . . . I mean lives would be changed."
Later in the documentary, she said she feared that women's lives "haven't changed as much as we hoped for." She told friends and family members that if women had voted as a bloc, they could have effected more change. "I don't know if we did enough with it," she said.
Mrs. Clinton, however, lauded her contributions in a statement after her death. "Her devotion to her family, her profession and her work in both the local and global community is an example for women everywhere," the first lady said.
Mrs. Dyk was born in Portland, Me., on March 25, 1901. She was proud to say that her pedigree included several families from the Mayflower, including Myles Standish. She grew up in Newton Center, Mass., and, like her mother, attended Wellesley College in Wellesley, Mass. She earned a master's degree in economics from Simmons College in Boston, and did further graduate work at the University of Wisconsin and the University of California at Berkeley.
She worked as a psychiatric social worker with delinquent girls in upstate New York, where, among other things, she taught her clients to play pool. She worked as a researcher at what was then called the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York in Brooklyn, and was co-author of three books: "Anxiety in Pregnancy and Childbirth" (Hoeber, 1950); "Psychological Differentiation" (Wiley, 1962); and "Left Handed" (Columbia University Press, 1980).
She completed the last volume with her husband, Walter Dyk, an anthropologist who studied Navajo Indians. His principal work, called "a revelation of the real life of the tribe" by The New Yorker, was in the form of an autobiography of one man, "Son of Old Man Hat," (Harcourt Brace, 1938).
After his death in 1972, Mrs. Dyk took transcripts of taped conversations and other research and wrote "Left Handed," a continuation of the first book.
Ms. Carter said her mother's strong will was evident when Mr. Dyk was suffering from Parkinson's disease and cancer and she was juggling two jobs and raising two children in the 1950's and 1960's. "What choice did I have? I did what I had to do," she said.
But when she had choices, she took an unconventional approach. "One of my earliest memories was her looking me in the eye and saying with just a bit of venom, 'Don't be so good,' " Ms. Carter said. "She meant you've to have some spirit, go against the grain."
Mrs. Dyk emphasized to her daughter that it was not necessary to marry, and that it was important to get the education that would allow her to live independently. When Ms. Carter began smoking, Mrs. Dyk said it was fine with her. With nothing to rebel against, the girl quit the next day.
In addition to Ms. Carter, Mrs. Dyk is survived by her son, Timothy, of Washington, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Dyk smoked into her 80's, drove into her 90's and voted in the recent election. She recalled how she felt when she was among the first women to vote.
"I was terribly frightened that I would push the wrong lever," she said. "I still go into that booth with the same feeling -- what if I voted Republican?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruth Dyk with Hillary Rodham Clinton in Rochester on Aug. 22. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); BOSTON, MA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); FAMILY (89%); WOMEN (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



641 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
A Month's Rent and a Bridge Out of Crisis

BYLINE: By AARON DONOVAN

 BODY:
It was 21 degrees on the morning of Dec. 28, 1999. Pierre Blain, 26, turned on Channel 4 to check the temperature, then put on two pairs of socks and thermal boots to help stave off the cold. He thought he had the flu, but he reported to his job at a Jersey City furniture warehouse anyway because he needed the $67 that he would make that day.
That evening, as Mr. Blain walked to the bus stop to catch a bus home, he collapsed on the frigid sidewalk. 
 Mr. Blain assumes a passer-by stopped to see if he needed help. He remembers only that he woke up briefly at the Jersey City Medical Center, where a doctor told him that he had severe frostbite in his feet, and that both would have to be amputated. When he awoke the next morning, his feet were gone.
Almost a year later, Mr. Blain is virtually confined to his one-bedroom apartment near Prospect Park in Brooklyn. He has only his sister, Careen, 25, and his turtle, Tobias, to help him pass the days.
Mr. Blain is one of thousands of people a year who are helped by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which provides money to seven of New York's oldest and most respected social service agencies. The fund was created in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, then publisher of The Times, after he was inspired by a chance encounter with a shabby beggar on Christmas Day 1911.
Mr. Ochs gave the man a few dollars and offered him a job at the newspaper. He was left with a keen awareness of the needy, and wondered if shining a light on the problems of the poor would inspire a city's good will. The next year, he sent a reporter to the city's orphanages and poorhouses to chronicle those most in need, and the Neediest Cases Fund, which today begins its 89th annual appeal for donations, was born.
"Giving to the Neediest Cases Fund is a profound statement at a time when many of us want to support our own institutions, our church, our synagogue, our school," said John Ruskay, chief executive of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven local charities the fund supports. "It also says we will support those that are left behind, those who may not be in view, but for whom we have a responsibility."
Mr. Blain depends on $818 a month in Social Security Disability Income, which covers his $735 monthly rent but little else, and on the income his sister gets from working as a baby sitter. But Mr. Blain did not have medical insurance, and the mounting medical costs associated with his legs have caused him to pay his utility bills every other month and lag behind in his rent payments.
"My landlord, he's a businessman," he said. "People have to make their money; I don't hate him for that."
When he was on the verge of being evicted from his apartment, Mr. Blain turned to the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens for help. Catholic Charities wrote a check for a month's rent and gave him $193.12 for a Con Edison bill. Catholic Charities, one of the seven local charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, used money from the fund to pay for those expenses.
"It saved my tail," Mr. Blain said. "I was getting drained. My rent is $735, and I've got the phone bill -- I've got to have a phone. And, I've got to eat."
The use of Neediest Cases Fund money to keep a man from being evicted is an example of what Thomas A. DeStefano, executive director of Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, calls bridge money -- money that comes to an individual or family at a time of desperate need and helps them back to stability.
"All resources are limited," Mr. DeStefano said. "We use the Neediest Cases money for people who have had the opportunity to be independent, who basically run into a crisis. At other times family is able to step in, but when you work with families who have had limited resources over the years, they're not able to provide that bridge."
Mr. Blain is part of a population of poor people that is expanding despite the continuing economic boom. "The number of New Yorkers living at or within 25 percent of the federal poverty level are growing at an alarming rate," said Dr. Ruskay, who first contributed to the fund by organizing a class donation when he was in grade school in Cedarhurst, N.Y. "Are we going to turn our backs on these people? The Times campaign today, as it has for 89 years, answers with a resounding 'No, they, too, are part of our community and our responsibility.' "
According to a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, the poverty rate for New York State increased to 16.6 percent in 1997-98, from 13 percent nine years earlier, while the United States poverty rate remained nearly constant over the same period. The study also says that New York State has one of the greatest disparities of income between the rich and the poor in the country, and the disparity is growing.
The Times does not solicit contributions to the fund; rather, it publishes articles from November to February about those who have been helped through the agencies.
"Poverty, sickness, despair and isolation are still rampant in our city, even if we don't see it in our homes and offices, or on the street," Dr. Ruskay said. "These are New Yorkers who are invisible, but for three months a year, The New York Times holds these New Yorkers in front of us."
Because The Times pays for the fund's administrative costs, every dollar donated goes to those in need.
Catholic Charities continues to work with Mr. Blain to ensure that he is getting the full Medicaid benefits to which he is entitled, and helps him keep to a minimum the number of medical bills he has to pay himself.
"When I was feeling down they said I had to see a shrink," Mr. Blain said. "I said, O.K., but I had to cough up $70."
When Betsy Smith, director of Catholic Charity's Brooklyn Family Center, learned of that, she told him to speak to the social worker who is assigned to his case, Isobella Markorskaya. "Before you pay any of these fees, talk to Isobella about it," Ms. Smith said. "I don't want you paying anything out of pocket."
Mr. Blain said he had applied for health insurance at several companies since the amputations, but had been turned down.
He has a $30,000 pair of prostheses that attach to his legs, which were removed below the knee. The prostheses were largely paid for by the hospital, but he had to contribute more than $5,000 from his own savings for them.
The prostheses allow him to walk for brief periods, but are painful and cause his legs to bleed, Mr. Blain said. He would like a new pair, and expects to hear next month whether Medicaid will help him pay for them.
Ms. Blain used to run a day care center out of her apartment. Now she spends 12 hours a day caring for her brother, and to provide for the two of them, she looks after five children who come to his apartment each day.
"I stay here because he is my brother," said Ms. Blain, who arrives at the apartment between 6 and 7 a.m. each day. "He could get a home health aide, but that's not family."
Family may be the tie that binds, but it is not always the tie that can help a relative pay for sudden, great expenses. Mr. DeStefano said his agency was increasingly depending on Neediest Cases donations because families were finding it increasingly difficult to cope with emergencies like the one Mr. Blain faced.
"As we work with more and more people who have made that jump into independence," Mr. DeStefano said, "we're going to see that more and more individuals will come to us."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Disability income barely covers Pierre Blain's rent. His television, bought before he lost his feet, does not work. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Gifts to the Neediest Cases Fund"
The Neediest Cases Fund raised a record amount two years ago, even as the number of people who give has steadily declined.
 
Graphs show total dollars given during the last 10 years (in millions; in 2000 dollars); and, the number of gifts in the last 10 years (in thousands) from 1990-1999.
(Source: The New York Times Company Foundation)(pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATHOLIC CHARITIES (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC CHARITIES (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHRISTMAS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); COLD INJURIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (69%); CHARITIES (66%); SOCIAL SECURITY (63%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (60%); INFLUENZA (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: PIERRE BLAIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



642 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 2834 words

HEADLINE: The State of the City: Packed Like Sardines;
Many See Crowds as Progress; Others Wish Prosperity Hadn't Brought Company

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Maybe you're thinking the city just seems more crowded but really isn't. Maybe you imagine that it's just the tourists or that you're just cranky or that it's that time of year. Maybe you figure it's just the No. 6 train or the cheese department at Fairway. Or you think New York City has always been like this.
Think again. If New York feels more crowded these days, it's because it is. There are more people living here, more people working here, more people coming to visit. Just try to hail a cab, rent an office, get a phone line, get a child into school, get into a restaurant, drive across town, park, walk a few blocks. 
 It's not just a matter of numbers; affluence intensifies the impression. More people plus more disposable income means many things: more construction, more scaffolding, more renovation, more noise, more double strollers, more car services, more sidewalk cafes, more hot neighborhoods, more delays.
Many New Yorkers now leave a half-hour earlier than they used to just to get to work. They steer clear of Midtown at midday, SoHo on weekends, Main Street in Flushing anytime. They jaywalk madly; they spill into intersections. They see movies at odd times and avoid the fish counter at Zabar's on Saturday mornings. They plan ahead.
Their feelings about it all range from irritation to exhilaration. Many complain about the subways, the traffic, the tourists in Times Square. They compare themselves to termites, cattle, sardines. "I often feel like a bat who's lost its sonar," said Francine Prose, a writer in Greenwich Village, who said she had grown more used to bumping into people.
Chris Lopes, 24, an electrician from Flushing, Queens, said: "I hate it, I hate it, I just hate it. I don't like breathing other people's breath. I like to kiss my wife when I get home, not the guy sitting next to me on the train at 5:30 in the morning. It's disgusting."
Abigail A. Frankfurt, 26, a Columbia University student who lives in Chelsea, said: "Last month they opened a Starbucks on the corner. I was like, 'Oh my God. There goes the neighborhood. O.K., so now we're part of Manhattan's main plan to attract the right kind of people to the little alternative neighborhoods.' And that's what has happened."
Others see the crowds as an index of urban well-being.
"Sure, down in SoHo the streets are always full, especially on weekends," said Jason Epstein, a former editorial director for Random House who lives in Lower Manhattan. "But that's thrilling. You can go for blocks and not hear a word of English. New York has always been like that; it's not like other American cities that tend to be exclusive. It's anything but. So I think it's in the full flower of its cosmopolitanism."
Robert. D. Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a civic group that works to improve the economy and quality of life in the New York region, said: "It's a sign of success. We should enjoy it. If you want peace and quiet, move to Scarsdale or someplace. But if you want the real thing, the razzmatazz that only comes with New York, well, here it is."
 
Statistics: More Everything
The statistics are striking. Start with population. The number of people living in Manhattan increased by about 64,000 from 1990 to 1999, said Mark Perry, a demographer with the Census Bureau. In Queens, the population grew by 49,000, and in Staten Island, by about 34,000, while the populations of Brooklyn and the Bronx dropped slightly, Mr. Perry said.
Employment in Manhattan is at at least a 30-year high, said Regina Armstrong, a principal of Urban omics, a group of urban and regional economists based in Manhattan who work with public agencies. Employment in the borough rose by 190,000 jobs from 1993 to 1998 and probably by at least 52,000 jobs from 1998 to 1999, according to federal and state statistics.
Tourism is breaking all records. The number of tourists and other visitors increased to 36.6 million in 1999 from 22.8 million in 1991, according to NYC & Company, the convention and visitors bureau. The number of passengers using the region's three major airports rose by 11.7 million from 1994 to 1999, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Subway and bus ridership are way up. From 1992 to 1999, the average weekday subway ridership rose by 867,000 and bus ridership by 476,000, according to New York City Transit. "We're carrying a million more people today on our subways and buses than we were carrying in 1997," said Al O'Leary, a transit spokesman.
Traffic, too, has worsened. The City Department of Transportation found that the number of vehicles entering and leaving Manhattan daily increased to 1.93 million in 1999 from 1.76 million in 1990. The Port Authority said that traffic on its two tunnels and four bridges heading into New York from New Jersey increased to 123.6 million vehicles in 1999 from 112.3 million in 1990.
The number of cars registered in the city rose by nearly 97,000 from 1996 to 1999, including an increase of 16,000 cars registered in Manhattan, State Department of Motor Vehicles statistics show. In the early 1990's, the number of Manhattan registrations changed relatively little, but it leaped by nearly 8,000 from 1998 to 1999 alone.
And it's not just cars that New Yorkers are buying. The Department of City Planning approved the construction of 12,421 housing units in 1999, up from 5,135 in 1995. In Manhattan, the number rose to 3,791 from 1,129. The number of permits issued by the Department of Buildings for scaffolding, sidewalk sheds and improvements has risen by several thousand a year over the last few years.
Restaurant seats in the city are up by 17,000 since 1996, said E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the Greater New York Chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association. Sidewalk cafe permits issued by the City Department of Consumer Affairs rose to 573 in 2000 from 318 in 1996.
One number has barely changed: the number of medallion yellow cabs, which is set by the city government. It rose by 400 from 1996 to 1997, to 12,187, and has remained fixed since. A recent study by Bruce Schaller, a consultant on taxicab regulatory issues, concluded that a record 241 million passengers rode in yellow cabs in 1999 and that taxis had become harder to hail on the streets.
"It's this combination of population growth, employment growth and income growth which is really fueling this hyperactive sense that we're getting about New York today," said Ms. Armstrong of Urbanomics. She said the personal income of Manhattan residents had risen significantly over the last eight years. "People not only want to be here and live here and work here. They're spending their money here.
"It's the kind of activity we haven't experienced for probably well over 30 years," Ms. Armstrong said. "It reminds me of what New York was like in the late 60's, but in some cases it's even more intense today than then. You can see it in the price increases in housing, for instance. You can see it in the sheer numbers of people out there walking around."
And it is about to get worse. The weeks between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day are the busiest of the year.
 
Gridlock as a Way of Life
One morning recently, a river of commuters cascaded down the Lexington Avenue sidewalks, then merged in a stubborn bottleneck at the 86th Street subway station, which serves some of the system's most crowded lines. Tramping and shuffling, the crowd descended into a roiling pit of bodies and surged onto the platforms where trains were arriving, already stuffed.
And no one comes empty-handed. New Yorkers travel with briefcases, backpacks, laptop computers, gym bags, duffel bags, garment bags, diaper bags, strollers -- freight that the transit system's designers never anticipated when the system was conceived, suggests Tony Hiss, who wrote "The Experience of Place" (Vintage Books, 1991) and is writing a book on transportation.
Nancy C. Jones, a computer operator who commutes from East Flatbush, Brooklyn, to Midtown, said: "I just literally want to scream, 'Don't touch me! Everybody, just let me sit or stand in enough human space not to be mauled for an hour.' All joking aside, part of the reason why the city is so hostile is because you're treated like an animal twice a day."
At lunch hour in Midtown recently, a half-dozen delivery trucks were double-parked on West 46th Street between Seventh Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Traffic was at a standstill the length of the block. On Fifth Avenue, the width of the sidewalk near West 49th Street had been halved by a cordoned-off cluster of ladders and workers repairing a storefront.
Crowds were massing near the curb, waiting to cross Fifth Avenue, then sallying forth as the light changed only to pull up short halfway across, confronted by an oncoming wall of more people. Near the New York Public Library at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, an ambulance idled in traffic, siren blaring, for three minutes before finally inching forward.
"You remember the night that all the international heads of state were in town and there was that dinner at the Metropolitan and Clinton was the host?" the writer Tom Wolfe asked recently. "The town was absolutely tied up. Nothing moved. And I walked 41 blocks to dinner. I said, 'Well, this is an exceptional occasion, of course.' But it's been that way ever since."
In midafternoon in Flushing recently at the intersection of Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue, buses lined the curbs in every direction. Heading south on Main Street, men, women and children maneuvered past tables laden with fruit, battery-operated barking dogs, Pokemon clocks, miniature boom boxes, toothpaste, socks, live crabs.
"You have to literally buckle your shoulders and play rough tackle and knock them down just to come down the block," said Tosha Bright, 24, a customer service representative from Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, who works in Flushing. "They'll stop in front of you and hold a conversation. People run you over with shopping carts, strollers. It's crazy over here. I'm like, Brooklyn ain't got nothing on these people out here."
 
Nostalgic for Rougher Times
One evening recently, Krin and Paula Gabbard headed to a fashionable downtown restaurant with a reservation for an unfashionable Tuesday at 8 p.m. -- made after they gave up trying to go out on weekends because every restaurant, movie and jazz club always seemed to be booked.
When they arrived, the restaurant was packed and their table in use. They were offered drinks on the house, but bodies were three deep around the bar. They were finally seated 70 minutes late (and found a $175 bottle of wine on the table, a consolation prize from management).
"I long for the days when people thought of New York as a place that was dangerous," said Mr. Gabbard, a professor of comparative literature at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, who lives in Morningside Heights, Manhattan. "Because then I'd be able to get a table more easily."
There are, of course, cities like Hong Kong that are more densely populated than New York. And there are faster-growing cities, and subway systems that carry more people in fewer hours. There are even neighborhoods in New York City that have thinned out lately, and there are places, like the Lower East Side, that were once much more densely populated than they are now.
But it has been many years since contemporary New Yorkers experienced crowding in the city at current levels. Many were not here in the late 1960's when sidewalk traffic became so acute that the Regional Plan Association recommended widening the sidewalks of Lexington and Fifth Avenues and turning Madison Avenue into a pedestrian mall.
Later, recession and the crime rate began to drain the city. Like many who moved to New York in the 1970's, Luc Sante, a journalist and an author, feels a certain affection for those years when he could decide that $100 a month was too much to pay for an apartment on the Lower East Side and could make up his mind at the last minute to go out to a concert or a movie.
 
A Sense of Something Lost
Thomas Beller, a writer who grew up on the Upper West Side and recently started a Web site that collects stories about Manhattan (www.mrbellersneighborhood.com), remembers many "neighborhoods that were sort of legendarily barren and haunted -- strange places of ghostly refuge where you felt the city was some kind of abandoned monster."
"Density is the drug that has always kind of captivated people about New York," Mr. Beller said. Not simply density, he said, but "these high-pressure, low-pressure weather changes in the density levels. It's the contrast that you thrive on. You can get into those different weather systems of energy really fast." Those contrasts are still there, he said, but they are less pronounced.
Parks were other low-pressure zones. Now some of the best-known, like Prospect Park or Union Square, have been restored and are thronged with people. In the words of Fred Kent, president of the Project for Public Spaces, a nonprofit planning and design organization, Bryant Park has gone from "nine groups of people dealing drugs" to "3,000 people having a ball." Central Park draws some 20 million visits a year, the City Parks Department said.
Emily Lloyd, a former New York City sanitation commissioner and former Boston traffic and parking commissioner, said: "We are making our streets and squares and external spaces more inviting, investing more in them as places where we want to spend time. Which I think is a wonderful change. Because the street is where we learn to live with each other, where we learn to get along, where we really get comfortable with our fellow inhabitants of the city."
Or not.
Marshall Blonsky, a New York University professor who teaches semiotics, described a visit to Citarella on Broadway at 75th Street: "Getting out of that awful subway, fighting my way across the street, walking past the book hawkers, past the pet-givers-away, past the doormen-you-don't-want-to-be-doormen holding your bank door open."
And inside the market, "beautiful people in jogging outfits buying Cornish hens and pointing to lobsters." Certain urban settings, Mr. Blonsky said, "send the message, 'Come out and show off your wealth.' In the form of a tanned face in February or a huge mastiff that clearly you don't have room for in your apartment but that you want to show off."
 
Many Ideas for Solutions
While the city has succeeded in recent years in making itself more attractive, critics say it has done little to accommodate the superabundance of humans that results. They would like to see sidewalks widened, street space reclaimed, traffic limited, transit capacity increased, delivery schedules changed, high-rise buildings reconceived.
Many want sidewalks widened along critical stretches of Fifth and Lexington Avenues and in Times Square, where one such widening is planned. Some want the street signaling system modified to take into account pedestrians' needs, and certain curbside parking spaces eliminated so hot dog vendors can move off sidewalks into designated spots by the curb.
To cut down on cars, some transportation experts want tolls on the East River bridges, limited access to Midtown and the closing of certain streets to traffic. Many also suggest congestion pricing for parking, under which vehicles would be equipped with a device like an E-ZPass transponder that could be scanned so that drivers could be billed based on where and when they parked.
In addition, many say subway capacity must be expanded with new and extended lines, stations should be made less oppressive, and bus lanes should be cleared to keep the vehicles for which they were intended moving. Elevators in certain new high-rise buildings, some say, should be required to connect to the subway so employees could come and go without taking up limited sidewalk space.
But will it happen?
"You can find someone to object to almost any of these things," said Richard T. Anderson, president of the New York Building Congress, a coalition of the design, construction and real estate industries. "And there's no organized constituency for the pedestrians who are being crowded out."
For some, what has been lost, for now, is a feeling. Krin Gabbard, the professor from Morningside Heights, remembers how the city felt to him when he arrived in 1981. He could wander the streets, a flaneur, observing the place with a degree of freedom and detachment that is impossible when one is preoccupied with negotiating traffic.
One thing he remembers were the construction workers' catcalls to passing women, something he had once thought vulgar, but that at that moment struck him as executed with rare panache. That state of mind is denied the pedestrian on a packed street. Mr. Gabbard said recently, "I feel as if, sometimes, the crowds have taken away some of the romance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crowds are especially thick in Times Square. The number of tourists and other visitors to New York City reached 36.6 million in 1999. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 52); (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 49)
 
Graphs: "CONSTRUCTION"
Graph shows new building permits from 1992-1999.
 
"TOURISM"
Graph shows yearly visitors from 1992-1999.
 
"SUBWAYS"
Graph shows average weekday riders from 1992-1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); TRAINS (72%); WRITERS (63%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



643 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: In Philippines, The President Could Evade An Ouster Yet

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Nov. 25

 BODY:
President Joseph Estrada of the Philippines may not be a political scientist, but as a former movie hearthtrob he knows his scripts.
"It's just like in the movies," he said recently as his allies turned against him and protesters shouted in the streets for his resignation. "The hero gets beaten up in the beginning but still wins in the end." 
 Right now, Mr. Estrada is at the pummeling part. But his final defeat seems a little less certain now than it did at the start of the month.
Two weeks ago he became the first Philippine president impeached by the House of Representatives, and the Senate is soon to begin a trial that could result in his removal.
The charges against him involve a staple of Philippine politics: corruption. Mr. Estrada has been accused by one of his cronies of accepting nearly $11 million in illegal gambling profits and provincial tobacco taxes.
He denies the charges, but when asked about them in detail at a recent forum, he seemed flustered and uncertain. His accusers say they are ready to present the Senate with a mountain of evidence.
Political winds in the Philippines blow with particular force, and in recent weeks Mr. Estrada has been deserted by leading allies in Congress, by members of his cabinet and by the powerful business sector. Vice President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, who is not a member of his party, resigned from the cabinet -- though not from the vice presidency -- and has become one of his most vocal opponents.
The chief figures in the "people power" movement that brought down former President Ferdinand E. Marcos have also come together again, and the powerful Roman Catholic Church has turned against him. "He is really losing ground, objectively speaking," said Amando Doronila, a political commentator.
But Mr. Estrada has not caved in as his opponents had hoped, and political experts say the battle could last for weeks or even months.
The 22-member Senate needs a two-thirds majority to remove him, and as of now Mr. Estrada appears to have just barely enough votes to hold on to office. His lawyers are raising legal obstacles, including a challenge to the impeachment itself, which passed in the House of Representatives without a formal vote. Time is on their side.
Congress will break for three weeks at Christmas and then for four months in February as the Philippines prepares for midterm elections in May. Experts say that if the impeachment motion has not been voted on before the long recess, it must be refiled one year after its initial filing, in October.
Such a scenario is not an appealing one to many Filipinos and appears to be particularly discouraging to the business sector.
There are also concerns that if the Senate vote is delayed -- or if the vote fails to remove him -- the street protests could grow, further hampering the country's political and economic life. "The number of people in the streets is bound to grow," Mr. Doronila said, "and that is not something to be dismissed lightly." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); LAWYERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); RELIGION (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (53%); GAMING (53%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



644 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Russia Backs European Plan For New Force

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 25

 BODY:
Russia is ready to cooperate with the new military force being drawn up by the European Union, Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said today.
"We consider it completely natural, the effort by Europe with their own forces to provide for their own security," Mr. Ivanov told leading European policy makers and analysts at a forum on Europe. "And in a crisis situation, we are ready for constructive cooperation." 
 European countries announced this week that they would form their own rapid reaction force outside NATO, which depends heavily on American military might and formed the West's primary cold war buffer against the former Soviet Union.
The 15 member countries of the European Union said they would create a force of up to 60,000 ground troops from among member armies by 2003 to deal with regional conflicts and humanitarian crises.
"The possibility of a Russian contribution in the conduct of European Union operations in regulating crises will be studied," Mr. Ivanov said. "I am sure that this will open good possibilities for our joint contribution to strengthening stability and security in Europe."
Mr. Ivanov's remarks could raise American fears of losing influence in European peacekeeping operations, and his remarks sought to highlight cases where American and European interests have diverged.
For example, Mr. Ivanov mentioned Europe's differences with Washington over the possible development by the United States of a national defense against ballistic missiles. "We very much appreciate that a whole series of leading European governments have come out with us and the overwhelming majority of the world in defense of strategic stability," he said. "One would like to believe that the series of supporters on our continent for the preservation of the ABM treaty will expand," he added, referring to the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty between Moscow and Washington that does not currently permit deployment of the kind of system the American military envisages.
Warning that a failure to follow international norms would lead to chaos, Mr. Ivanov cited the 1999 American-led NATO air war against Yugoslavia as an example of NATO gone astray.
"Unfortunately, the well-known events in the Balkans in the spring of 1999 are evidence that such an alternative cannot be excluded," he said. "After the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, there was again talk in the world that maintaining security was only possible by military means, including through the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction.
"I am sure that such a negative development of events is not in the interests of a single European government."
A day after President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia received the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in Moscow, Mr. Ivanov also called for the European Union to be more involved in Middle East peace talks.
"Russia, as a cosponsor of the Middle East peace process, believes that the European Union should take a more active role in its international mediation," he said. "The very proximity and approaches on these questions between Moscow and Brussels allows us to act in tandem and if necessary, in a joint effort." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (86%); COLD WAR (79%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (61%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



645 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: The Tree Trap

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Nov. 25

 BODY:
In the end, the negotiators got lost in the trees.
After 11 days of draining and unwieldy bargaining by 170 countries over the rules for a proposed treaty to fight global warming, by this morning all the issues had been narrowed to just this one: How much credit should big forested countries get for all that photosynthesis? 
 In that natural chemical process, trees and other plants draw carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, out of the air and stash the carbon in the ground or in wood, forming what experts have called carbon "sinks" and helping to cool the climate.
The United States, the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases and the country that potentially stands to face the greatest cost under any treaty, had originally said it might try to meet half its emission-cutting goal in just that way.
But other industrialized nations with fewer open spaces suspected the Americans of trying to find a way out of actually taking the hard steps of reducing their use of fossil fuels and of trying to get something for nothing -- in effect, playing a "get out of jail free" card.
Despite a report issued during the conference from the Energy Department saying that the United States could reduce its fuel use though fairly simple, inexpensive changes -- with almost no harm to the economy -- conservation measures have long been resisted in a country where big cars, low gasoline prices and economic growth have come to be considered nearly inalienable rights.
But for Europeans, accustomed to high fuel taxes and Green politics, the primary goal of the treaty was to cut emissions at the source, not sop them up after the fact.
Through the final week of the conference, the United States sharply whittled down its original proposals. By dawn today, everyone later agreed, it was very close. There was a palpable sense of optimism that -- after a decade of debate -- the world was ready to take a step toward a cooperative, but potentially costly, effort to cut the flow of gases that scientists have linked to the warming climate.
Through the night and early this morning, environmental groups, particularly the World Wildlife Fund, helped the European delegation dissect each complicated new formula for carbon tons and trees, said Kevin R. Gurney, a climate and forest expert at Colorado State University who spent hours crunching sets of numbers provided by European negotiators to the wildlife group -- one after another.
He said the final analysis came down to a 20-million-ton difference between the two sides, a minuscule amount of carbon dioxide in a world spewing 6 billion tons a year into the air.
"I think things came as close as they could come," he said. "I think they were tired and not able to translate some of that into the bottom line, and I think that did freak some of them out."
One result was that a pioneering climate deal sealed with handshakes by a few diplomats deep in the night came unglued when numbers lay under the fluorescent glare of the day.
Tonight, as he somewhat wistfully recalled that fleeting electric moment when an agreement was at hand, Jan Pronk, the president of the two-week climate meeting, compared it to the American presidential election. "At 6 o'clock this morning," he said, "it was too close to call."
People who were intimately involved with that critical moment when the tide turned say it appears that domestic political pressures, exhaustion, an exceptionally tight relationship between the Europeans and environmental groups and simply too much data to sort through in too little time all collided to destroy any environmental detente, at least for now.
In his post-game analysis tonight, Mr. Pronk said he lamented that fundamental problem with technical negotiations.
"When experts come to the table, they tend to stay too long," he said. "People leave with more questions than they had before."
On other heated issues, resolution seemed closer still. Delegates had fought over whether nuclear plants should be banned or simply not encouraged in a world combatting global warming. The technology produced no greenhouse gases, after all, but came with a load of other environmental concerns.
The compromise was the gentle verb "refrain."
There was a third bloc, the developing countries, that had its own demands, but those seemed achievable if the wealthy nations could speak with one voice, and in the end they could not.
Mr. Pronk said tonight he was disappointed, but not devastated. "I'm a professional, and I'm a believer," he said, "a professional believer."
But even as he spoke, workers dismantled the trappings of the conference, including blue and green panels bearing the logo he himself had chosen: "Work It Out." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); FUEL TAX (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: JAN PRONK (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



646 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Irish Unions, Pay Lagging, Stage Protests

BYLINE: By BRIAN LAVERY

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Nov. 25

 BODY:
On Wednesday, trains across Ireland sat still in their stations. On Thursday, high school classrooms were empty. And this weekend, newsrooms are eerily quiet. After more than a decade of cordial industrial relations, Irish labor unions have returned to the picket lines with a series of intermittent one-day strikes by workers on the railroads and in hospitals, by airline pilots and journalists.
In October last year, 30,000 nurses staged a drawn-out strike. Over the summer, train drivers carried out a work stoppage. But the sporadic unrest orchestrated this month by 16,000 high school teachers is considered by some experts to pose the most serious threat so far to Ireland's 13-year-old "social partnership" model of industrial relations. 
 "We're going through a difficult period," said Tom Wall, assistant general secretary of the Irish Congress of Trade Unions, an umbrella group to which the teachers belong. "We're in transition in the protected areas of the economy."
The teachers' union, the Association of Secondary Teachers, Ireland, is one of more than 100 labor and employers' organizations that signed a national agreement called the Program for Prosperity and Fairness, which sets an annual level of wage increases for three years. Now the teachers' union is threatening that entire structure, joining a growing number of unions that warn that they will pull out of the agreement if demands for more pay are not met.
The unions contend that rising prices -- Ireland's inflation rate is currently nearly 7 percent, more than double the European average -- have made the 5.5 percent wage increases meaningless. The government insists that the terms of the agreement are not negotiable. "As usual, they keep their head down and hope it goes away," said Martin Frawley, an editor at the trade magazine Industrial Relations News.
The social partnership process dates to the economically stagnant Ireland of 1987, when the aptly named Program for National Recovery guaranteed gradual and controlled wage increases. By sticking to the periodic agreements, organized labor earned significant credit for Ireland's transformation into the fastest-growing economy in Europe, with gross domestic product expected to grow by 10.5 percent this year.
But while social partnership helped to maintain stability during the difficult times, it has outstayed its welcome, said Dermot O'Brien, chief economist at NCB stockbrokers in Dublin. He uses language similar to that of many Irish officials anxious to privatize old state companies and introduce full competition. "We're getting in the way of market forces," he said. "The supply-and-demand balance has shifted."
Thanks to the influence of American corporations like Dell Computer and Intel, the balance of jobs has shifted toward flexible and highly paid private sector jobs.
The Irish work force is almost 1.7 million people, of which the umbrella union group claims a membership of 500,000. Its share of the work force is falling because most new jobs are in nonunionized areas, like financial services, retail trade and hotels.
Now that the labor movement has become more focused on the public sector, the wage agreements help union members catch up with employees in the higher-income businesses associated with Ireland's economic turnaround. "A lot of employers, particularly in the high-tech sector, are throwing money at recruitment," Mr. Frawley said. "There's a wave of rising expectations that aren't grounded in reality, but it's the public perception that matters."
The young Irish men and women taking up those jobs are not conscious of the sacrifices made by the generation before them, Mr. Wall contends. "There's a lack of appreciation of what they call 'the grim yardstick of the past,' " he said. With an aging membership in industries that are not growing, unions face an uphill battle to keep their current high public profile.
The high school teachers, who resume their strike for two days next week, are in the slightly awkward position of battling an agreement that, while they consider it financially unfair, nonetheless helps maintain their status as an important minority in the work force. "The social partnership process has kept unions near the seat of power," Mr. O'Brien said. "If we didn't have the national plans, the unions wouldn't have nearly the same influence." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LABOR UNIONS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TRAINS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WRITERS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (72%); INFLATION (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (63%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



647 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: One Battle More -- the Last? -- for Canada's Old Warrior

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TORONTO Nov. 25

 BODY:
Canada's leader, Jean Chretien, used to boast that he entered Parliament when John F. Kennedy was in the White House. But that boast has faded now that he is locked in a fight for political survival with Stockwell Day, a smooth-faced opponent who looks half the age of the craggy 66-year-old prime minister.
With Canadians to vote on Monday in federal elections, Mr. Chretien desperately wants to go down in history as the first prime minister since World War II to form three consecutive majority governments. In a high-stakes gamble, he called elections last month, ignoring the advice of Liberal Party leaders. If the Liberals fare poorly on Monday, they will probably depose him, ending a decade of his party leadership and seven years as prime minister. 
 What the press has billed as "Chretien's last campaign" is stumbling to an inglorious end, far from the sunny days of early fall when he surfed on a wave of national nostalgia after the death of Pierre Trudeau. Polls then gave the Liberals a 30 percentage point advantage over the Canadian Alliance, the new conservative party of Mr. Day.
With the gap narrowing to about 12 points, Mr. Chretien has been reduced to hinting that if he wins a majority government, he will hand over power to a younger Liberal leader halfway through his five-year term. Swallowing his pride, he started to campaign jointly with Finance Minister Paul Martin, his younger and more popular Liberal rival. Bowing to polls indicating that he is less popular than his party, Mr. Chretien offered "a great team" and reminded them that "government is not a one-man show."
With many Canadians telling pollsters that they see no reason to hold an election now, Joe Clark, leader of the Progressive Conservatives, snapped at Mr. Chretien in a television debate, "You're a prime minister without a plan, except to stay in office."
But Mr. Clark wrote Mr. Chretien off as "yesterday's man" once before -- on the eve of the 1993 election that swept the Liberal Party to power. In the last four decades, few politicians have prospered by underestimating the wiles and combativeness of Mr. Chetien, who came into the world at the height of the Depression as the 18th child of a Quebec millworker, a baby born with a deaf right ear and a paralysis that distorted his mouth.
Proud of his blue-collar roots in Shawinigan, an industrial town 50 miles northeast of Montreal, Mr. Chretien recently complained of the isolation of office, saying: "You don't have a lot of time to go into a beer parlor and have a beer with the boys. This is unfortunately over."
Like many Quebecois who support a unified Canada, Mr. Chretien is reviled by the separatist Bloc Quebecois party as a traitor to Quebec. Gilles Duceppe, the Bloc leader, who believes he will gain seats from the Liberals on Monday, routinely dismisses his French Canadian rival as "the little guy from Ottawa who disguises himself as the little guy from Shawinigan every four years."
A political mechanic, Mr. Chretien worked his way up under three Liberal prime ministers, speaking fractured French and English, but displaying flawless electoral instincts. As prime minister, he governs in an autocratic way that, critics say, reduces the role of his cabinet to that of a focus group.
"He decided this election all alone," said Thomas S. Axworthy, a Chretien supporter who teaches public policy part time at Harvard. "He was afraid of the economy turning down. He did not want to give the Alliance time to grow."
Much as Al Gore often did not get credit for the boom years of the Clinton administration, much of the credit for Canada's economic recovery go to the finance minister, Mr. Martin, a 62-year-old millionaire from Montreal. The difference between the two rivals is the difference between a patriarch and a patrician.
"The crowd surges toward the figure whose gray hair catches the television lights and seems to draw the adoring like a magnet," the newspaper The Globe and Mail said last week in an effusive front-page article headlined, "Crowds flock to Martin."
Inheriting huge budget deficits in 1993, the Chretien administration radically reversed Canada's fiscal fortunes. This year will be the third consecutive year of budget surpluses, a feat not seen here since the 1950's. Unemployment, while high by American standards, has dropped from 9 percent in the early 1990's to 6.9 percent today, the lowest level in a quarter century.
A few days before the election, the latest surplus allowed Mr. Martin to announce a $65 billion tax cut, spread over five years. But conservatives question whether Mr. Chretien, an apostle of government activism, has his heart in tax cuts. Mr. Day, who instituted a flat provincial income tax as treasurer of Alberta, warned, "Canadians have a right to be skeptical about a Liberal government promising tax cuts."
Almost playing to this distrust, Mr. Chretien unveiled a new $4 billion spending program this month, telling voters, "There is more to life than taxes and taxpayers."
Trying to defuse critics on the left, he signed a deal in September with the 10 provincial leaders to restore $14.3 billion on the national health care system.
In a candidates' television debate, Alexa McDonough, leader of the New Democratic Party, a socialist party, said of the prime minister's campaign-season turnabout on health care spending, "Thirty-seven days of Dr. Jekyll don't make up for seven years of Mr. Hyde." Health care routinely tops voter worry lists.
Although Mr. Chretien campaigned in 1993 against free trade with the United States, he quietly jettisoned that policy, allowing bilateral trade to nearly double, to $1 billion a day. In September, the United States monthly trade deficit with Canada, its largest trading partner, hit a record $4.7 billion.
Dragged forward by the American economic locomotive, Canada's economy grew by 4.5 percent last year. Still, Canada's huge national debt, equaling 365 billion American dollars, remains a political liability.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Day routinely picks up a wailing baby and says: "See? He knows that when he was born his share of the national debt was $18,000."
But Mr. Chretien remains a firm believer in patronage and economic interventionism, and he has announced multimillion-dollar grants to build bridges in Montreal and the creation of a state-run Internet portal.
Mr. Day has painted the slogan "A Time for a Change" on the side of his campaign bus. Alluding to his adversary's age, he often extends such backhanded compliments as, "I respect the 37 years of service that the prime minister has given."
Although Mr. Chretien recently said "there is no more room on my political body for any more scars," his aging political physique seems to have picked up a few more in recent weeks with allegations of corruption.
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police are conducting five inquiries into possible misuses of government job creation grants in Shawinigan, which Mr. Chretien flooded with federal grants and loans after it voted 55 percent in favor of Quebec independence in a 1995 referendum.
Last week, the prime minister acknowledged that he had repeatedly telephoned the president of a federal bank, the Business Development Bank of Canada, in an ultimately successful lobbying effort for a $400,000 loan to a man who had bought a Shawinigan hotel partly owned by Mr. Chretien.
"You call who you know," said Mr. Chretien, who depicted the lobbying effort as fighting for his constituents. Although The Vancouver Sun, British Columbia's largest newspaper, called for the prime minister's resignation, he counterattacked with a report clearing him, prepared by Howard Wilson, the parliamentary ethics counselor.
Conservative critics noted that Mr. Wilson was appointed by Mr. Chretien and reports to him. A Day spokesman, Phil von Finckenstein, said, "We need an ethics watchdog, not an ethics lapdog."
The charges have only added to the wariness of an already tentative campaign. In contrast to Mr. Day, who has run from one public rally to the next, Mr. Chretien has had events before safe audiences -- at local campaign headquarters or at factories, research institutes and job training centers that have received federal grants and subsidies.
But Margaret Wente, a columnist for The Globe and Mail, was not persuaded that even Mr. Chretien's waning personal appeal would be decisive in affecting the outcome of the election.
"So what if the leader can no longer fill a pool hall with people who actually like him?" she wrote last week. "He'll survive. The street-fighting instinct's still working."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean Chretien at a rally in Sault Sainte Marie, Ontario, yesterday. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (59%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (59%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (59%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL PARTY (82%); BLOC QUEBECOIS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (82%); BLOC QUEBECOIS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (59%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (59%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (59%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); 

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); PAUL MARTIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



648 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: TREATY TALKS FAIL TO FIND CONSENSUS IN GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, Nov. 25

 BODY:
High-stakes negotiations aimed at finishing a treaty to curb global warming collapsed today after a tense all-night bargaining session foundered on last-minute disputes between European and American negotiators.
The breakdown, after two weeks of intensive talks here, stunned many participants, environmental groups and observers, even though they had recognized from the start the enormous task of finding common ground on ways to cut the greenhouse gases emitted by every smokestack and tailpipe from Boston to Brisbane. 
 "I'm gutted," John Prescott, Britain's deputy prime minister, said as he left the hall this morning after failing to negotiate a compromise primarily between the United States -- by far the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases -- and the European Union.
But Jan Pronk, the conference president and Dutch environment minister, did not concede defeat, and instead proposed that the meeting be suspended, with another session perhaps as soon as May.
The top American negotiator, Frank E. Loy, visibly tired and rubbing his forehead and eyes, agreed that the effort should continue, even when he and the Clinton administration would be handing over the task to a new administration.
"We will not give up," Mr. Loy said. "The stakes are too high, the science too decisive, and our planet and our children too precious."
From the outset the talks were riven by conflicting agendas as they aimed to fill in the fine print of a 1997 treaty, called the Kyoto Protocol, drafted by more than 170 countries.
Poor countries sought billions of dollars to help them adapt to climate change, while rich nations aimed to blunt the economic impact of the treaty by finding the least costly ways to cut their emissions of warming gases.
But today the failure came down to persistent disagreement between industrial powers on opposite sides of the Atlantic over the role of trees and properly managed farmland in acting as "sinks" to absorb carbon dioxide, the dominant greenhouse gas.
The lack of understanding on that issue was a key to the breakdown of the talks, participants on both sides said. European negotiators ultimately rejected a compromise proposal -- which early this morning seemed to have sealed a deal -- as too harmful to the environment and too favorable to the United States.
If enacted, the treaty the negotiators had hoped to complete would commit three dozen industrialized countries to cut their greenhouse gas emissions by 2012 to at least 5 percent below emissions in 1990.
So far, however, no industrialized country has ratified the pact, and as negotiations have dragged on in the intervening years, the emissions of most of the world's leading producers of greenhouse gases have only continued to rise, a trend that helped add new urgency to the current round of talks.
When the treaty was originally drafted in Japan three years ago, the United States, Canada and other large countries said they would seek credit toward their emissions targets for forested areas, but those talks never settled on an amount. Negotiators at the current conference had hoped to arrive at one.
But ultimately no agreement could be reached. Around 3 a.m., Mr. Prescott, from Britain, and representatives of two other European nations met with the United States team over a compromise proposal. Members of both delegations said agreement was reached in that room.
"We physically shooks hands," Mr. Loy said. "I asked, 'Are we now in full agreement, is this a deal?' I was pointing to a piece of paper. They said, 'Yes.' "
But when that set of proposals was brought back to the rest of the European delegation, they rejected it.
"We had a hard and fast political deal," said a member of the British delegation. But that deal could not hold up to the subsequent analysis before dawn by other European countries.
"I think it is fair to say that was a pretty important opportunity that was not cashed in on," Mr. Loy said.
Moments after word escaped that the agreement had broken down, representatives of competing private environmental groups sprinted around the halls, decrying the failure and saying simply, "It's over." They then scrambled to hand out hastily drafted press releases and to hold briefings for the media shouting to be heard over the din and confusion.
Many environmental groups argued that the United States had underestimated the strength of the European Green movement and its determination to reduce the use of fossil fuels drastically. A British official said that many European countries realized the significance of the idea of carbon "sinks" only during the current meeting -- and that it was far too late.
Jennifer Morgan, climate campaign director for the World Wildlife Fund, which joined a mostly European cluster of environmental groups, blamed the United States.
"The United States pushed too hard and too far," she said. "They didn't leave the time or trust to get a deal in the end."
Part of the problem was a cultural rift, negotiators on both sides said. The European Union, where Green Party politics is a driving force, never found a way to compromise with the United States, where the environmental movement increasingly works with industries to bring change, instead of fighting for strict top-down regulations.
"It's extremely difficult to negotiate between groups where political cultures are so different," Dominique Voynet, the French environment minister and a Green Party member, told the full sessions.
Earlier in the week, Jurgen Trittin, the German environment minister, explained that the opposition to forest credits in his country was deeply rooted, and that there was a clear sense at the conference that the United States and its partners were trying to get something for nothing.
"We have strong interest groups in German society," he said. "What shall I tell them if the United States makes a fire road in a forest and flies airplanes over it and says that is an emissions project? They'd say you're ridiculous."
But some environmental groups that tend to work more closely with industry defended the American position, which focused on building a political consensus back in the United States by making sure that the agreement satisfied powerful industry and farming lobbies.
"In the long-term fight against global warming, we need every tool at our disposal," said Eileen Claussen, president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, a Washington group. Ms. Claussen was formerly part of a Clinton administration team that negotiated agreements leading up to the Kyoto Protocol.
"If we take carbon sequestration and market mechanisms out of the equation, or bog them down with such overly restrictive rules that nobody uses them," she said, "then we are limiting our ability to meet our environmental objectives."
Sani Daura, Nigeria's environmental minister and a spokesman for a bloc of developing nations called the Group of 77 and China -- whose exemption from emissions targets had long been seen as the most likely source of an impasse -- said the conference had failed largely because of competing economic interests in wealthy countries.
"I hope all the parties have learned their lessons," he said. "The breakdown came from selfishness and lack of political will, in particular from the North."
Staff members for two American senators, one Democrat and one Republican, said all was not lost, however, despite the substantial setback. The Senate had strong reservations about the Kyoto Protocol even before it was negotiated in 1997. And now there was the prospect of a new push in Washington to curb greenhouse gases, they said.
"Regardless of the outcome here, the stage is set in Congress next year to consider addressing this issue in a way that makes economic and environmental sense in a coordinated fashion," one staff member said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters against greenhouse gases maintained a 20-hour vigil yesterday over a banner outside the climate treaty negotiations in The Hague. (Reuters)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (88%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (88%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EARTH (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



649 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 7;Page 6;Column 1;Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: A History of Himself

BYLINE: By Max Frankel; Max Frankel, former executive editor of The New York Times, is the author of "The Times of My Life and My Life With The Times."

 BODY:

 A LIFE IN THE
 TWENTIETH CENTURY
 Innocent Beginnings, 1917-1950.
 By Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
 Illustrated. 557 pp. Boston:
 Houghton Mifflin Company. $28.95. 
 The question occurs the moment you spot the subtitle of Volume I of Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s memoir, "A Life in the Twentieth Century." Why would even a popular historian think his "Innocent Beginnings, 1917-1950" were worth 557 pages?
My answers, in order of importance:
Schlesinger's beginnings were hardly innocent. His youth was extraordinarily privileged, a combination of first-class genes and parents, brilliant tutors, enviable social connections and comfortable roosts from which to observe the sufferings and traumas of America's greatest depression and war. That elite breeding pond, almost dry now, is worth memorializing.
Moreover, the historian's first 33 years were no mere beginnings. They produced his Pulitzer-worthy "Age of Jackson," which propelled him into the top ranks of popular scholars and gave lifelong weight to his celebrations of the New Deal and American liberalism. Schlesinger observes that we have all done most of our reading by the age of 25. Maybe our best living, too.
And finally, the young Schlesinger's experiences, opinions, travelogues and press notices were all lovingly preserved in journals, manuscripts and multiple caches of correspondence -- all of which the old man has been loath to abbreviate.
Schlesinger dutifully describes his rich inheritances without, alas, fully reflecting on the sense of entitlement they conferred. A congenital Democrat and precocious reader, he early on replaced his maternal middle initial with his father's so as to make himself a Junior and glided through Exeter and Harvard into Dad's profession and philosophical shoes. All that brought easy affiliation with the Ivy establishment of scholarly activists who lusted for the excitements and satisfactions of Washington power games.
By 33, Schlesinger has collected a huge roster of friends, good friends and very good friends that glitters with names like DeVoto, Frankfurter, MacLeish, Bundy, Bohlen, Lippmann, Alsop, Graham, Morgenthau, Rockefeller and on and on -- most of them linked to pretty, lovely, beautiful, beauteous, stunning, even bewitching wives and loves. Small wonder that he sets out (and will by Volume II or III have succeeded for a time) to emulate the 19th-century life of a presumed ancestor, George Bancroft, the first major American historian, who attended the same Exeter and Harvard and also became a Democratic politician, White House ghostwriter and diplomat.
Still, the indispensable intellectual as well as social influence in Junior's life was obviously Arthur Senior, a path-breaking historian whose fame long preceded Junior's. He not only charted the course of his son's research and proofed his early books; he also passed on his devotion to liberalism, contempt for Communism and yearning to broaden historical perspectives. It seems quaint now to recall that the Schlesingers, pere et fils, were so recently struggling to liberate historical narrative from its once exclusive preoccupation with party politics, war and diplomacy. They were prominent among the innovators who related those events to society's workaday concerns and cultural patterns.
It was also Arthur Senior who set the stage for Junior's greatest achievements, his books on Andrew Jackson and the age of Franklin D. Roosevelt, by insisting that American democracy owed as much to the strivings of urban labor as to the wild frontier championed by Frederick Jackson Turner. Arthur Junior's memoir reads best when it revisits such major intellectual shifts and demonstrates how history is always contemporary history -- in his case an obvious effort to explain and justify the innovations of the New Deal. And his book is most instructive in proving that such revisionist argument is both inevitable and constructive, producing endless debates about liberal society's endless yearnings for reform.
SCHLESINGER'S history of himself is rich with other historical insights, candid (though not particularly introspective) about his own misjudgments, disappointingly stingy with his domestic and inner lives and downright tiresome in his excavations of journal trivia, press clips and encomiums. Fortunately, the excesses are relieved by generous doses of gossip, bursts of self-mockery and rewarding riffs on a great many subjects.
For example: "The vanity of historians is to suppose that we understand better than the people who were there what the shouting was all about. . . . But 20-20 hindsight can be carried too far. There is always the risk of Chip Bohlen's 20-20 hind-myopia. Too often we suggest that those poor chaps in the past may have thought they were acting for one set of reasons; but we, so much wiser, know that they were acting for quite other reasons. . . . The assertion that people in the past did not really know why they were doing what they did leads to the conclusion that we do not really know why we are doing what we do today."
Schlesinger offers the swiftest strokes to dispose of some of the century's fiercest controversies. Since F.D.R.'s obvious priority in World War II was the defeat of Germany, he notes, "the charge is absurd that he somehow connived in the Japanese attack" on Pearl Harbor. And: "The decision to drop the bomb was the most tragic decision in American history. Yet . . . the conventional attack on the decision suffers from grave deficiencies. There is neglect of the Japanese sources, which show that even after the bomb fell on Nagasaki, military opposition to surrender reached almost the point of revolt against the emperor."
And consider this superb summary of 40 years of cold war, offered without implying any "moral equivalence" of the Soviet and American superpowers: "Each undertook for what it honestly saw as defensive reasons actions that the other honestly saw as unacceptably threatening and requiring countermeasures. Each succumbed to the propensity to perceive local conflicts in global terms, political conflicts in moral terms and relative differences in absolute terms."
Also noteworthy are bursts of cultural history. Schlesinger's recurrent and romantic tributes to the films of the 30's illuminate a brief but vital decade of American experience. Just as Arthur Senior had listed the 598 books he'd read by the age of 14, the list that shimmers in Junior's diary is of the 482 movies he saw between 1931 and 1936. "We went to the movies for entertainment, of course, but almost as much for instruction
in techniques of self-presentation. . . . Young men sauntered insolently down the street like James Cagney, wisecracked like William Powell, cursed (expletives deleted by censors) like Humphrey Bogart and wooed like Clark Gable. . . . The style to which I vainly aspired was the witty, urbane, nonchalant, unruffled type -- Powell, especially as Hammett's Nick Charles, Fred Astaire, Robert Montgomery, Rex Harrison." What often came out instead, he concedes, was a snotty certainty, verbal aggression and deplorable manners. But the American public, riven by economic disparities and ethnic discriminations, gained "a common dream life, a common fund of reference and fantasy."
Equally instructive are Schlesinger's recollections of the battles to rescue liberalism from the suffocating embrace of Communism and the slow passage of high-minded intellectuals from isolationism to interventionism in World War II. He names names in both debates, including his own as too late a convert to the view that Hitler was no mere imperialist fighting for markets and colonies. "The Second World War led historians of my generation to the reluctant conclusion, founded on our own experience, that there were some problems -- some logjams -- that only war could solve." Grounded in that same wartime experience, he contends, was his contested claim that a similar logjam -- the North's moral disgust over slavery -- made the Civil War necessary and inevitable.
Recognizing that "the present persistently and inevitably recreates the past," Schlesinger critiques his own youthful masterpiece about Andrew Jackson from the perspective of contemporary politics. He did less than justice, he now believes, to Alexander Hamilton, John Quincy Adams and Henry Clay, who served business interests but nonetheless had a sounder conception of the role of government than existed in the antistatist theories of Jacksonians.
SIMILARLY, Schlesinger realizes now that "the predicament of women, of blacks, of Indians . . . was shamefully out of mind." Yet while he develops an elaborate defense for having neglected the evidence of the slaughter of Europe's Jews, he makes little effort to examine the insulation that closed his eyes and those of so many Americans to the horrors of Jim Crow. Nor does he reflect much on his slowness to grasp "our tumble into the nuclear age," his quick and classbound contempt for Truman or his brief but ignorant enthusiasm for Eisenhower. These misjudgments are duly recorded, but only dimly evaluated.
It may be too much to ask that the scholars who enriched our understanding of history by exhuming and composing social and cultural chronicles also satisfy the new interest in narratives of emotional and psychological development. Schlesinger is brilliantly succinct in recognizing the roots of liberalism in the Augustinian tradition as rendered by Reinhold Niebuhr, who taught him that "man's pretensions to reason and virtue . . . are ineradicably tainted by self-interest and self-love." Original sin thus struck him as an incisive metaphor for human frailty, undermining the pretensions of absolutists and requiring "the democratization of authority."
Yet even 557 pages are insufficient to reach the inner frailties of the young Schlesinger. He records his "long pursuit" of Marian Cannon, an artist and author of children's books, who, he notes, was "quite right" that they were not well suited to each other. But that is the last word about the unhappiness of his first marriage. Indeed, there is no glimpse at all of home life until the last page, where the scholar boasts that he could write undistracted by the clamor of his children. He quotes his journals to excess, but only hints at deep emotion in samples of bad, unpublished fiction -- about the guilt he felt for taking up with a "Paris girl" in wartime and the cushy life he led while brother Tom saw combat.
Schlesinger says that by nature or nurture he has always felt the historian's basic impulse "to find out what the past was really like. . . . I cannot walk down Fifth Avenue without wondering how the street and the people on it would have looked a hundred years ago." By nature or nurture, it is one contemporary reader's impulse to wonder what the memoirist was really like, what this distinguished intellectual really thought in the privacy of his dreams.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 26, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The key on Page 6 of the Book Review today for the cover illustration of Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. and several associates, in connection with a review of the first volume of his autobiography, misidentifies the figure at the far left. It is Stewart Alsop, not Joseph Alsop.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ed Lam)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR M SCHLESINGER JR (96%); ARTHUR JUNIOR (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



650 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Spelling Trouble

BYLINE: By David J. Dent; David J. Dent is the author of "In Search of Black America: Discovering the African-American Dream." He teaches journalism at New York University.

 BODY:

 Losing The Race
 Self-Sabotage in Black America.
 By John H. McWhorter.
 285 pp. New York: The Free Press. $24. 
 John H. McWhorter shares what he calls "the very first memory of my life" in his book "Losing the Race." It happened in that turbulent year, 1968: "A group of black kids, none older than 8, asked me how to spell 'concrete.' I spelled it, only to have the 8-year-old bring his little sister to me and have her smack me repeatedly as the rest of the kids laughed and egged her on. From then on, I was often teased in the neighborhood for being 'smart.' "
McWhorter, who now teaches linguistics at the University of California, Berkeley, says this incident did not occur in one of those low-income neighborhoods often perceived to be the factory producing black youngsters wanting to be so unwhite that they reject and scorn the kind of intelligence that makes for good spelling. McWhorter says he was smacked for being smart in the comfortable black middle-class haven of Mount Airy, a Philadelphia suburb.
That it happened there forms the base of McWhorter's argument that the black middle and upper middle classes are destroying the possibilities and dreams of the civil rights movement. He says a deep anti-intellectual current -- often considered characteristic of the underclass -- has swept into the culture of black privilege and is complemented by an identity clouded in separatism and victimization. In McWhorter's view, this sense of victimization produces a misguided moralism that makes anything black, like O. J. Simpson, always right. He argues that this anti-intellectual strain is largely responsible for the test-score gap between black and white middle-class children. He says this destructive force in black life must end, along with any reliance on affirmative action, before blacks reach true equality.
McWhorter relates several encounters with irresponsible black middle-class students at Berkeley; these, along with other personal experiences like the Mount Airy episode, form the core of the limited original evidence he offers to support his contentions. He often leaps to broad generalizations from personal experiences and observations that are, most often, inadequately explored. For example, he mentions seeing a television program, featuring the actress Nell Carter, in which her character expresses an intense interest in Russian history: "It struck me as a false moment, and I wondered whether the script had originally been written with a white actress in mind. I couldn't help thinking of how very few black people I have ever met who were so passionately interested in a subject that had nothing to do with being black." McWhorter breezes by without considering whether his response reflects his own limited exposure to African-American culture and his inability to see black life in America without polemical lenses.
Too often McWhorter does what many blacks accuse whites of doing -- he draws a conclusion from any negative encounter he has experienced with another black person and assumes it is the norm; whatever violates it is the exception. "I once met an aspiring black linguist who had spent two years in China without learning Chinese beyond what he needed to buy food at the market," he writes. "Most people who spend two years in a foreign country come back speaking the language. . . . This was the only linguist I have ever met who spent two years abroad without becoming bilingual, and it is not likely to be accidental that he was black. Separatism has a way of discouraging black Americans from learning foreign languages other than French and Spanish . . . and Swahili." He produces nothing empirical to support this.
He rightly defines the black majority as middle class, but never imagines that population beyond the confines of the argument against affirmative action. It sometimes seems as if that horrifying day in Mount Airy eternally looms over his view of black Americans. He too often appears simplistically to divide the race into two camps -- those under spells of victimology and separatism and those like himself. "I am not alone," he writes. "An increasing number of black people are questioning the cognitive dissonance between the vast potential of their lives . . . and the insistence of so many blacks around them that America remains a racist purgatory."
His argument remains captive in a closet of his own experiences, with scant assessments of academic studies, and data on the test-score gap that are never explored with the rigor they deserve. Yet the book's shining moments are tied to that shortcoming. McWhorter's accounts of personal encounters are riveting even when they do not fully carry his arguments. For example, he shares some details of his successful climb to tenure that, in his view, did not escape the suspicion of affirmative action. He firmly believes his colleagues, despite his stellar record of publication, can never get beyond a reductive thought: "It was perfectly obvious that in the back of most minds was 'Of course he got tenure -- they wouldn't dare deny tenure to a black person unless he was hopeless.' "(He does not offer any data to show that black professors have an easier route to tenure than others and barely addresses the many stories that suggest otherwise.) In McWhorter's view, all the blame goes to affirmative action -- none to the troubling visions of colleagues who cannot see his success without thinking "affirmative action." And should affirmative action be abolished to appease the limitations of those professors?
McWhorter often celebrates the economic advancement of blacks as evidence that racism in the United States is not as severe as many claim. One is left wondering why he or anyone should celebrate the rise of the black middle class if the majority of those well-off blacks are locked in the cults of victimology and separatism -- and choked by anti-intellectualism -- as he contends. That thought underscores the great frustration in reading "Losing the Race." Even when I find myself disagreeing with McWhorter, I could not help thinking of more solid, substantial and constructive ways to state his argument.
There is documentation that finds some blacks rejecting academic success for fear of being called white and in order to be "cool." One might argue this is complemented by the American disdain of the nerd that looms far beyond black culture and did not begin there. Yet the test-score gap, though not sufficiently explored in "Losing the Race," is real. McWhorter at least brings attention to its possible connection to the anti-intellectual strain that he confronted in Mount Airy and that he says he finds in his black students. This issue is not served when many blacks avoid it. McWhorter stirs the waters. Unfortunately, he does not clarify much in the process. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A review on Nov. 26 about "Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America," by John H. McWhorter, referred incorrectly to the author's childhood neighborhood, Mount Airy. It is part of Philadelphia, not a suburb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LOSING THE RACE: SELF-SABOTAGE IN BLACK AMERICA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); LINGUISTICS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: DENT, DAVID J; MCWHORTER, JOHN H JOHN H MCWHORTER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2000



651 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Argentina and the I.M.F.

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Paul Krugman, in his Nov. 22 column, "Shadow of Debt," rightly cites Argentina's currency board as the source of the country's economic malaise. Tying the peso to the strong American dollar, the board imported the Federal Reserve's dollar deflation and now has sky-high unemployment and interest rates. 
 The currency board did end Argentina's hyperinflation when the price of gold was stable at roughly $350 an ounce, between 1985 and 1997 -- but as gold has fallen, the peso and Argentina's economy have deflated. In response, the International Monetary Fund gave Argentina a loan but required it to raise taxes, putting the country deeper into the ditch. Now the I.M.F. is back with another loan and more austerity.
Mr. Krugman notes that fans of the currency board say it is the "next best thing" to a gold standard. Indeed, Argentina would be much better off if it dissolved the board, rolled back the tax increases and pegged the peso to gold. It would soon have the strongest economy in Latin America, instead of being a crippled ward of the I.M.F.
 
JUDE WANNISKI
Morristown, N.J., Nov. 22, 2000
 
The writer is an economist. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); F IS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); DEFLATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX INCREASES (68%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



652 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Schedule of Bond Offerings for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and a new two-year note being auctioned on Wednesday.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 6.16 percent and the rate on the six-month issue was 6.04 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.85 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
British Telecommunications, $6 billion to $8 billion global offering, Baal/BBB+/---. Merrill Lynch & Co., Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, and Salomon Smith Barney.
Pennzoil-Quaker State Co., $150 million in notes due 2002, Baa2/BBB/---.
Salomon Smith Barney.
Texas Eastern Transmission Corp., $300 million in capital securities, A2/A/---. UBS Securities.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
TAX EXEMPT
TUESDAY
San Antonio Public Service Board, $225 million of debt securities. PaineWebber Inc.
State of New York Mortgage Agency Series 94 & 95, $74 million of debt securities.
WEDNESDAY
California, $214 million of debt securities. Competitive.
California, $500 million of debt securities. Competitive.
Louisiana, $347 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Michigan, $148 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Nevada, $100 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Bexar County, Tex., Arena Project, $160 million of debt securities, due 2022. PaineWebber Inc.
Houston Public Improvement, $200 million of debt securities, due 2020. Bear, Stearns & Co.
New York State Dormitory Authority City University, $230 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Puerto Rico Afica University Plaza, $89 million of debt securities due 2021 and 2030. PaineWebber Inc.
University of Massachusetts, $200 million of debt securities, due 2020. Salomon Smith Barney. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (90%); DUK (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PAINEWEBBER INC (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (69%); SOPUS PRODUCTS (69%); SHELL OIL CO (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOND ISSUES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); TAX LAW (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); STUDENT HOUSING (62%); 

PERSON: BOND OFFERINGS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



653 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Group for Cooperatives Seeks to Make Credibility a Lure of Its New .Coop Domain

BYLINE: By CHRIS GAITHER

 BODY:
When the panel that governs the Internet's naming system decided this month to add seven new suffixes, it ended months of discussion and argument over how to relieve the pressure on the crowded .com domain.
But it did not solve the issue of whether the seven entities that won the rights to administer the new domains would truly create viable alternatives for all the forces seeking their own new piece of cyberspace. 
 Still, one of them, the National Cooperative Business Association, has set a lofty goal with its new .coop domain: to make it "easier for consumers, producers and others to find the businesses they trust in the global electronic marketplace," according to its Web site.
"What a cooperative can do is address chaos in the marketplace," said Paul Hazen, president of the association, a decades-old group based in Washington that the names panel chose from nearly 50 applicants.
Meeting in Marina del Rey, Calif., on Nov. 16, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, known as Icann, chose the seven new dots -- aero, biz, coop, info, museum, name and pro -- making the largest structural change to the Internet since the late 1980's.
Though existing domains like .com, .org and .net were created to differentiate Internet addresses, the distinctions have largely been lost. Critics also say the .com domain is overcrowded, with more than 20 million names.
"There's only so many common-word names, and if you only have three suffixes, 'thefarmerinthedell' can be used up pretty quickly," said Jeffrey Moser, director of economic and co-op development for the National Farmers Union, a Denver-based trade association that supported .coop.
To begin the process, Mr. Hazen's group paid the $50,000 application fee to Icann and brought in Poptel, a British Internet service provider run as a co-op, to provide technical support. The association also received a strong endorsement from the International Co-operative Alliance, a worldwide trade association based in Geneva that claims 750,000 member cooperatives.
The groups selected to run domains will negotiate contracts with Icann during the next few months. Icann must then receive approval from the Commerce Department, which began handing over administrative functions to Icann in 1998. The new domains are expected to appear next summer.
The winners included some more straightforward business proposals, like one from Afilias, a consortium of name registrars that hopes to sign up businesses to its .info domain, and one from JVTeam, a new venture that will run the .biz domain. But the cooperative association is seeking to tie its domain to a larger mission.
Since 1916, National Cooperative Business Association, formerly called the Cooperative League of America, has sought to tussle with corporations for a piece of various markets, from banking to agriculture. In the 1930's, when large electricity companies rebuffed New Deal efforts to bring power to rural areas, cooperatives moved to fill the gap. World War II sparked the association to form the Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe, today called CARE, to deliver food parcels to troops overseas.
The association, whose ranks now include Land O' Lakes, the second-largest dairy cooperative in the United States, behind the Dairy Farmers of America, advocates a form of democratic capitalism. The member businesses, which also include co-ops dedicated to organic foods, are owned by customers and co-op members.
Although most co-ops already operate Web sites ending in .com or .org, Mr. Hazen said, "they didn't fit neatly into those categories." He said co-ops may use the new domain to find a space between the business interests of .com and the nonprofit world of .org.
The association said it expected to register 155,000 addresses in the first four years. The proposed registration fee, $75, is much higher than the fees proposed by the other winning sites, which average about $5. Mr. Hazen said the fee would allow his association and the International Co-operative Alliance to screen every request for a new Internet address, to ensure that the applicant was a certified cooperative.
The association said the strict registration process would give users confidence about the quality of a .coop business.
"Consumer mistrust of e-commerce is growing," Patricia A. Brownell, executive director of the National Credit Union Foundation, wrote to Icann in support of the association. "It's critical that cooperative businesses have an opportunity to identify themselves to consumers and others who prefer to do business with us."
Despite the association's selection, Icann board members said during the process that they were wary of proposals to regulate the content on any new domain. Citing fears about the ability to control what appears on a Web site, the board turned down applications for .kids, a domain for children proposed by .Kids Domains Inc., and .health, a domain for medical Web sites proposed by the World Health Organization.
"There are a whole variety of potential traps here," Vinton G. Cerf, the newly elected Icann chairman, said in an interview. But he added that the board set aside its fears and "chose dot-coop because co-ops are usually reasonably well-defined."
Icann officials said that they chose the first seven domains in general because they seemed the most likely to work. Based on how true that actually turns out, Icann will consider releasing new ones, including many of the ones not accepted in this first round, Mr. Cerf said.
Mr. Hazen said he expected cooperatives to move slowly onto .coop, especially well-known groups with established Web sites. Some may continue to use .com to market to the public while marketing .coop to members of their cooperative, he said.
"We can create a place for just cooperatives on the Internet, but they can also play in dot-com land if they want to," he said.
A spokeswoman for the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, a trade association based in Washington, said she had heard little discussion among the council's membership about jumping the dot-com ship.
"Most of them do have a dot-com site," said Pamela Valenzuela, director of community and member relations. "Whether they're going to move to dot-coop, especially if they're well established, I doubt it."
With access restricted to co-ops, however, smaller businesses that never found room on .com may discover the space they need. A New York-based seller of electricity, 1st Rochdale Cooperative Group, said it planned to abandon its .net site as soon as it could get new business cards and stationery, probably within six months after .coop appears.
"Co-op will be the one we'll be using in future advertising," said Allen L. Thurgood, chief executive.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Hazen, president of the National Cooperative Business Association, which will administer the new .coop Web sites domain. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Winners Are:"
Of nearly 50 applications for new domains on the Internet, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers chose the following seven, which will go into effect next year. Here are brief descriptions of the new domains and the groups that will oversee them.
 
.aero -- Reserved for the air transport industry.
Societe Internationale de Telecommunications Aeronautiques, based in Belgium, provides network and communication technology to the air transport community.
 
.biz -- General use, an alternative to .com.
JVTeam, NeuLevel, called JVTeam in the application, formed by NeuStar and Melbourne IT.
 
.coop -- Reserved for business cooperatives.
National Cooperative Business Association, a Washington-based trade group.
 
.info -- General use, an alternative to .com.
Afilias, a consortium of 19 Internet domain name registrars.
 
.museum -- Reserved for museums.
Museum Domain Management Association, founded by the International Counsel of Museums and the J. Paul Getty Trust.
 
.name -- Reserved for human domain names,or personal Web sites.
Globe Name Registry, a British company formed by Nameplanet.com.
 
.pro -- Reserved for professionals, such as doctors and lawyers.
RegistryPro, a Dublin-based company formed by Register.com and Virtual Internet.
 
(Source: Icann)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (76%); BELGIUM (59%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (69%); NATIONAL COOPERATIVE BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (91%); INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COOPERATIVE BUSINESS ASSOCIATION (91%); INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (76%); BELGIUM (59%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DOMAIN NAMES (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (62%); WEB SITES (54%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%); 

PERSON: PAUL HAZEN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



654 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: China's Rights Stand: Progress or an Irrelevance?

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 26

 BODY:
Why is this man smiling? In a picture splashed all over Chinese newspapers last week, a beaming President Jiang Zemin is shaking hands with the chief United Nations advocate for human rights, celebrating an agreement by which outside experts are supposed to help China accede to treaties on personal freedom.
"Jiang Backs U.N. Rights Cooperation," blared a typical headline. The chipper tone seemed perplexing. After all, the two treaties, which China has signed but not ratified, would in theory require China to embrace principles that could upend Communist rule: freedom of association, the right to free labor unions, protection from arbitrary arrest, freedom of religion, and more. And if there is one thing China usually rejects, it is outside interference. 
 Mr. Jiang and his fellow leaders are apparently confident that China can navigate diplomatic dialogues and possibly loophole-ridden treaties. They may feel that they can gain diplomatic credit for cooperating at all, while changing their laws only as they are ready to and finessing any provisions that would threaten the party's monopoly.
At the same time, virtually everyone, from foreign critics to party leaders themselves, agrees that surging economic and social change and the spread of the Internet will be vastly stronger forces for political change than any diplomatic agreements. The expectation that an emerging middle class will demand a political voice and the rule of law has, in fact, been a prime argument in the West for bringing China into the World Trade Organization.
Yet there are strong indications that this vision, too, will be sorely tested in the near term. Some experts, Chinese as well as foreign, worry about the risks of harsher rule as free trade throws angry workers into the streets and an information explosion confronts the government's hapless censors.
"With the Communist Party fearing a loss of control during the transition, its instincts will be to crack down hard on dissent," said Anthony Saich, a Harvard University expert on Chinese politics. "We may well see a harsher period of rule in the coming couple of years as the party tries to manage these new challenges."
Along the way, the United Nations rights commission, the United States and other Western governments and a host of human rights groups will be looking for ways to put pressure on Beijing. But as the ceremonies here last week suggested, outsiders often have only limited leverage.
Mary Robinson, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, praised China for signing the agreement, which will lead to seminars on delicate rights issues and expert training on legal procedures and related topics. But she was careful to say in public that repression in China has actually worsened in the last two years. Thousands of followers of the Falun Gong spiritual movement have been sent to labor camps without trial, hundreds of democracy campaigners have been jailed, and censorship of political thought has recently tightened up.
The remarks by Mr. Jiang during Ms. Robinson's visit also showed how the Chinese, by bending concepts to fit their needs, can frustrate those working for systemic change. "The Chinese government has always supported international exchange and cooperation in the area of human rights because each country has its own way," Mr. Jiang told his visitor.
International rights advocates had mixed feelings about the cooperation agreement, especially after discovering that it had been watered down from earlier drafts.
The New York-based group Human Rights in China noted that the agreement's training measures may help reduce China's notorious judicial incompetence and police brutality. But it added that the agreement may have little impact on the deeper problem of policies that intentionally violate basic rights.
Human Rights Watch, also based in New York, described the agreement lukewarmly as "part of a slow dance with Chinese authorities, on the assumption that some contact is better than none."
But several rights groups noted that China's sincerity is called into question by its refusal to fulfill an obligation under the anti-torture covenant that it has already ratified.
China has so far prevented a required international inspection and report on its practices, refusing to allow unfettered access to prisons and prisoners.
The two treaties now in the spotlight are the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. China's Parliament has recently debated ratification of the first but is far from taking up the second, and a major goal of the agreement last week was to boost technical studies here of legal steps needed to join the treaties.
Each covenant has provisions that challenge basic tenets of Communist rule, but there are also exceptions granted when a country says its security or social order is threatened.
Still, Ms. Robinson and Western governments hope that China will join the treaties, in the belief that regular monitoring will provide a new kind of leverage on Beijing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jiang Zemin and Mary Robinson, the United Nations' high commissioner for human rights, at their meeting in Beijing on Tuesday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TREATIES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); RELIGION (74%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK JIANG ZEMIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



655 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: State of Illinois Seeks to Help Landowners Fight Tribal Suit

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 26

 BODY:
The Illinois attorney general, Jim Ryan, and state legislators are stepping forward to defend 15 landowners against the Miami tribe of Oklahoma in a lawsuit in which the tribe lays claim to 2.6 million acres of land in 15 counties.
In a battle being fought on the Great Plains of Illinois, the small tribe of 2,400 members is claiming legal rights to land it was granted in a treaty signed almost 200 years ago. The land in dispute encompasses private farms and homes, two state universities, state parks and prisons. 
 The tribe's lawsuit contends that under the 1805 Treaty of Grouseland, the Miami were granted the Wabash River Watershed land. The area includes all land touched by the river and its tributaries, taking in all of Indiana and areas of Illinois and Ohio. Over the years, the Miami gave up their lands in Indiana and Ohio, but they say they have never ceded their Illinois land.
"The land is ours and now we are acting on it," said George Tiger, a tribe spokesman. "The dispute between the tribe and the state reaches back almost eight years and they have never paid attention to us."
Mr. Tiger added: "We have always been willing to sit down at the table with them, but they have never taken us seriously. I think now they are realizing that this claim is credible."
The tribe says the 15 landowners were chosen at random to represent the owners of the 2.6 million acres in the 15 counties. Ultimately, the tribe says, it seeks return of all the land, but chose the 15 landowners to begin to press its claim.
The state was not named in the suit. Attorney General Ryan filed a motion in August with the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois to intervene in the lawsuit.
But Judge J. Phil Gilbert denied the request and asked the state to present valid reasons for its involvement in the case.
"There are so many facets involved in this case since it involves state parks, prisons and schools, so we have to involve ourselves in this and make sure this is stopped," said Scott Mulford, a spokesman for Mr. Ryan. "We are confident that we will be let into the case and that we will be successful in getting the case dismissed."
The state contends that it should be involved in the case since it attacks the interests of the United States and the state of Illinois, not the individual landowners.
Illinois lawmakers, meanwhile, are proposing a bill that would create a legal defense fund to pay the legal fees of the 15 landowners. The bill was passed in the Senate this month and will be considered in the House when it reconvenes on Tuesday.
Rex Walden is one of the landowners. Mr. Walden, a 98-year-old Urbana resident, has farmed his 80-acre plot for 75 years, and his son, Francis, recently took over the job of planting and harvesting the corn, bean and oat crop. The land has been farmed by three generations of Waldens. Mr. Walden's four children say they will fight for the land.
"My father is worried and he doesn't understand why they picked him out of so many others," said Pauline Eaton, Mr. Walden's daughter. "I think they thought he was old and would just give up, but they picked the wrong guy to mess with, because we are all behind him."
The Miami own about 200 acres in Oklahoma, but they have no reservation. They use trust land in Oklahoma to operate a high-stakes bingo hall and an off-track betting facility. If the Miami are successful, they have the option of putting the land into a federal trust, granting them the ability to run a tax-free casino.
Some tribe opponents think the Miami are using the treaty only to negotiate operation of a land-based casino, a move strongly opposed by Gov. George Ryan of Illinois. But Mr. Tiger says that is not their plan.
"Historically the land belongs to us, and we want to pursue some type of economic development with it," Mr. Tiger said. "This doesn't mean casinos. The only people that have mentioned that are the government, not us. Economic development can take many forms, from cultural centers to hotels. We also can't just move in and start a casino. We would have to work with Illinois before we started any type of gaming facility."
In the past 30 years, tribes across the country have researched treaties and hired lawyers to win back land. In 1998, the Oneida tribe of the Iroquois Nation filed suit against 20,000 New York landowners. Last September, a federal judge ruled that the Oneida tribe could sue only the state and local governments, not the citizens in central New York State. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (99%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GREAT PLAINS NATIONAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (99%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MIAMI TRIBE OF OKLAHOMA (INDIAN TRIBE); SUITS AND LITIGATION; INDIANS, AMERICAN; REAL ESTATE; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); RIVERS (69%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); 

PERSON: REX WALDEN (65%); GEORGE TIGER (65%); GEORGE RYAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



656 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: West Nile Side Effect: A Wealth of Data on Wildlife Death

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DELMAR, N.Y.

 BODY:
What's killing the mourning doves of New York?
Until this year, that was a question that no one had even thought to ask, because no one knew that a scourge was stalking the dove population. Their struggle, like much death in the wild, was silent and offstage, in the woods and fields, where bodies quickly disappear and biologists are usually not on hand to take notes. 
 But examinations of the 9,000-odd bird carcasses and 1,000 mammals and amphibians that were delivered this year to the state wildlife pathology lab here in response to the outbreak of West Nile virus changed all that. The corpses, from hummingbirds and loons to bats and mourning doves and even a few bears, arrived like a daily tide as public health officials around the state scrambled to investigate the unknown sources and transmission patterns of the virus, which emerged in the New York City region in the summer of 1999.
And while testing for West Nile remained the top priority, said Ward B. Stone, the wildlife pathologist who directs the lab, new questions and clues kept piling up, too, along with the bodies. The result was a purely accidental scientific payoff from the emergence of West Nile -- a vast new database of wildlife death.
Mr. Stone's lab, nestled in a rural region near Albany, has become one of the nodes, scientists say, of a swirling national confluence of disciplines -- from climatology to epidemiology -- that is drawing a tighter and tighter connection between human health and the state of the natural world.
"Ward's lab is unique," said Linda Glaser, a wildlife disease specialist at the National Wildlife Health Center in Madison, Wis. She said Mr. Stone was finding out more about what was killing wildlife than anybody else in the United States. "It's pretty amazing."
Most of the mourning doves did not die from the West Nile virus, the lab found, but rather from a protozoan parasite causing trichomoniasis, which caused lesions in the birds' throats. The disease cannot be transmitted from birds to humans, but it is deadly to doves. Other tests have turned up a dissertation's worth of avian ills, from fatal fungi to gastrointestinal tapeworm to what Mr. Stone says is a substantial number of deliberate poisonings that the state would never have known about without the flood of specimens sent in for testing for the West Nile virus.
But what the examinations did not turn up is probably as revealing as what they did: in all the huge volume of specimens this year, relatively few animals, the lab found, died from accidental pesticide exposure. The great specter that has haunted the naturalist/environmental movement since at least the 1960's, when Rachel Carson published her polemic against agricultural toxins, "Silent Spring," is waning, Mr. Stone said.
Most of the small number of birds that were killed by manufactured poisons, he said, either ingested a chemical that is no longer in use but is still in the ecosystem, like chlordane, or ate poison recently set out by humans. A flock of dead gulls found near a landfill in Cortland, for example, was initially thought to have been killed by West Nile; it turned out the gulls had been fed an obscure poison laced into bread.
"We're moving from a phase when pesticides like DDT and chlordane were the great threats to wildlife into a time when exotic diseases are becoming more and more important," Mr. Stone said. On the other hand, he said, some maladies that are turning up, like trichomoniasis, may have been killing mourning doves for years, perhaps even centuries, and no one knew. "And we still wouldn't know it if we weren't hooked up with the Health Department and getting this volume of birds," he said.
Other scientists say that New York's lab -- though it was not created for the purpose of tracking West Nile -- has provided a major, fortuitous link in the chain of disease investigation. A recent discovery here that bats are susceptible to West Nile, for example, has already filtered through the research world, prompting wildlife officials in New Jersey and other states to expand their testing and open their freezers to test old samples. Most states that have begun testing animals since the West Nile outbreak, which killed seven people last year and sickened dozens, still test only for West Nile.
"New York is unusual because the program is set up to look for trends in wildlife diseases -- few other states put any money into that," said Tom French, the assistant director of the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife.
But for all its clout and reputation, the pathology lab is neither large nor plush. It has a staff of five, including two technicians who were hired this year to do nothing but bird necropsies to test for West Nile. It has banks of freezers for storage, and perhaps most important, its own specially built high-temperature crematory to dispose of biohazard organisms.
Before West Nile crowded its agenda, the lab worked on diseases like rabies and Lyme disease, and on issues like lead poisoning in waterfowl that accidentally ate lead sinkers lost by fishermen.
Inside the lab, nature and death and technology are intertwined. Rows of animal skulls, from wolves to field mice, line the display cases. Student interns sit in front of computer screens, entering data, while in the basement, technicians in head-to-toe protective gear dissect birds, calling out their findings about the relative condition of spleens and livers and hearts and brains to assistants with clipboards.
But researchers in other states say that all the public and government focus on West Nile and the volume of birds being turned in for examination throughout the Northeast have created scientific bonuses outside New York, as well. Wildlife investigators in New Jersey, for example, are now conducting what they say may be the largest-ever study in the nation about the lingering effects of chlordane.
The chemical was banned in the late 1980's, but scientists and environmentalists have long maintained that because of its persistence -- it can remain toxic in the soil for decades after its application -- chlordane is probably still a factor in the ecosystem, passing from soil to insects to birds that eat insects and into birds that eat other birds.
The New Jersey study, which looks at predatory species like hawks and falcons, had already been planned for this year, with perhaps a tiny sample and a big hypothesis, said Dr. Douglas E. Roscoe, the supervisor of the office of fish and wildlife health and forensics at the New Jersey Division of Fish and Wildlife. The bounty of dead raptors that began arriving this summer for West Nile testing -- more than 70 hawks and falcons alone -- created a broad sampling that he could have only dreamed of, he said.
Many other scientists say the biggest long-term impact on science from the emergence of the West Nile virus could result from the cross-fertilization of disciplines that it is bringing about. Because West Nile involves a kind of biological Where's Waldo of birds, mosquitoes, humans and other mammals, a new dialogue is beginning to emerge between specialists who have in many instances had little to say to one another. Doctors and public health administrators are talking to wildlife biologists; veterinarians are talking to ecologists who study the evolving disease patterns caused by climate change and global warming.
Even pet shop owners and animal importers have become involved, as investigators pursue the theory that the virus entered the United States in the blood of an imported bird that was then bitten by a mosquito that flew off to infect other birds.
"There's a ton of stuff out there that we're only in the primitive stages of understanding," said Mark Pokras, the director of the wildlife clinic at the Tufts University School of Veterinary Medicine in Medford, Mass., which formed a consortium two years ago with the Harvard Medical School and the Wildlife Trust, a private conservation group, to study emerging diseases. "People are seeing the need to bring more expertise to bear because they realize that no area of the profession has a lock on the information."
Some of this scientific exchange had already been developing in places like Tufts as a result of other diseases and viruses that connect humans and animals, like the hantavirus, with its connection to rodents; Lyme disease, with its links to ticks and deer; and H.I.V., which has been traced to monkeys. West Nile is different, researchers say, because it is concentrated in the most densely populated region of North America and because, unlike those viruses and diseases, it also poses a grave danger to wildlife.
"West Nile will be the real catalyst" of interdisciplinary cooperation, said Dr. Paul R. Epstein, the associate director of the Center for Health and Global Environment at Harvard Medical School. "It's getting veterinarians and doctors and biologists to sit down at the same table."
West Nile has become quiescent now, as cold weather has killed the mosquitoes that carry the virus. But that has meant only a shifting of the gears at the pathology lab, not really a rest. Blood smears and tissue samples that were put on ice during the hectic days of summer will be analyzed through the winter. An expansion of the lab to double its space for animal autopsies next year is also in the planning stage.
And there are always new mysteries to solve. Loons have been washing up on the shores of Lake Erie recently, killed by botulism. Mr. Stone's hypothesis is that heavier-than-normal precipitation flushed local sewage systems into the lake, and that from there toxins passed into the tissues of zebra mussels and fish, and from there into the birds.
Human beings who hunt and eat waterfowl from the lake are the next link in the chain, but Mr. Stone said a little home-economics science is all that is needed to keep the disease from spreading to humans: people should cook anything from the wild completely before they eat it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kevin Hynes, a technician, examines a coyote in the necropsy room at New York's wildlife pathology lab, near Albany. The coyote had been chased and attacked by dogs involved in a fox hunt, and then shot. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B5); Ward B. Stone with a rescued barred owl. His state lab's work on West Nile virus is helping draw a tighter connection between human health and the animal world. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIDE (OSL) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4482 FERRIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TIDE ASA (70%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE HEALTH CENTER (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WILDLIFE HEALTH CENTER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PATHOLOGY (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BIRDS (89%); WEST NILE VIRUS (89%); VIRUSES (89%); POISONINGS (78%); MAMMALS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); BIOLOGY (76%); ANIMALS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); PESTICIDES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); EPIDEMICS (56%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (55%); 

PERSON: WARD B STONE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



657 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: A New Mexican Government

 BODY:
After waiting restlessly on the sidelines since his triumph at the polls last July, Vicente Fox Quesada will be sworn in Friday as the first president of Mexico in seven decades not to hail from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. The former governor of Guanajuato and Coca-Cola executive with a populist touch has wisely used the transition period to assemble a diverse and pluralistic cabinet. It promises to serve him well as he confronts the single greatest challenge of his presidency -- living up to Mexicans' exalted expectations of what his government can accomplish.
On the eve of Mr. Fox's presidency, many observers still wonder whether he intends to govern as the victorious nominee of the conservative National Action Party, known as PAN, or as a president elected only because he transcended his party's narrow appeal by forming a broad-based "Alliance for Change" electoral coalition. His approach to forming his cabinet suggests the latter. For example, he offered three important cabinet posts to the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution, and though the P.R.D. rejected the offer, the president-elect was still able to assemble a diverse team. 
 Mr. Fox's choice for foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, also testifies to the new government's pluralism. A political scholar who most recently taught at New York University, Mr. Castaneda was instrumental in building a bridge between Mr. Fox and some of Mexico's most prominent leftist intellectuals. He should prove a valuable resource to Mr. Fox, both as a tutor of global affairs and as a source of political cover at home. Regarded as a critic of American policy, he may also help Mr. Fox avoid charges of being too subservient to Washington.
Mr. Fox's economic team, by contrast, will raise no eyebrows on this side of the border. Wall Street was pleased at Francisco Gil Diaz's appointment as treasury secretary. He is a respected economist whose credentials as a free-market disciple are bolstered by a Ph.D from the University of Chicago and his experience running a telecommunications company that took on the former monopoly, Telmex. But Mr. Fox may have been most impressed by Mr. Gil Diaz's reputation for toughness during his tenure as Mexico's chief tax collector under a previous PRI administration.
Where once PRI presidents simply reshuffled party insiders to form their cabinets, Mr. Fox employed a number of headhunting firms to seek out talent in the private sector. Among the finds, Leticia Navarro, known for her marketing savvy in the cosmetics industry, will take over the Ministry of Tourism. Ernesto Martens Rebolledo, chief executive of an airline, has been tapped for what may be the most challenging assignment of all -- the Ministry of Energy. Mexico's state-owned oil and electricity monopolies are in need of drastic, but politically perilous, reforms.
Mr. Fox did give PAN loyalists some cabinet posts in the realm of social policy. These ministers should not misinterpret the president's mandate to strengthen Mexican democracy as a license to impose their party's more conservative social views. Any effort to enhance the church's role in public life, for instance, would play into the PRI's hands and sour the majority of Mexicans' enthusiasm for change. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); COSMETICS (61%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (61%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%); TOILETRIES MFG (50%); 

PERSON: FOX QUESADA, VICENTE VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



658 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Preaching Gospel of Rebirth in Jamaica;
Southeast Queens Residents Hope Good Economic News Spreads

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
Marc Tally has lived only a few miles from downtown Jamaica, Queens, for about 40 years. He is an entrepreneur, but Jamaica was, until recently, the last place he wanted to open a shop.
"Any time you have a business, it's location, location, location," said Mr. Tally, 52, who has sold art, African masks and framed posters at fairs and flea markets across the country. "Those are the three facts." 
 Mr. Tally, who lives in Laurelton, east of Jamaica, saw the downtown shopping area tumble into decay. He saw three major department stores, including a Macy's, leave downtown Jamaica in the late 1970's and early 1980's. He saw the movie theaters close and the banks get out, and he saw the drug dealers and the fast food joints move in. The decline was followed by plenty of talk about rejuvenating Jamaica, but to Mr. Tally and other residents and entrepreneurs, development seemed to move more slowly than rush-hour traffic on the Van Wyck Expressway.
But now, with an $82 million retail center that will include a 15-screen cinema, the Gap, Old Navy and several other stores under construction and plans afoot for major redevelopment around the AirTrain to Kennedy International Airport that is to reach Jamaica by 2003, real revival seems within reach to many in the neighborhood.
"Times are changing," said Mr. Tally, who opened his store, Simply Marvelous: Art About Us, three weeks ago in the Jamaica Market, a sunny atrium on Jamaica Avenue near Parsons Boulevard. "There is nowhere to go but up."
The flurry of activity in downtown Jamaica can be attributed, in part, to the economic development efforts that were begun by the Rev. Floyd H. Flake. Mr. Flake, a Democrat, was the area's representative from 1986 until he resigned in late 1997 to focus on his duties as pastor of the powerful Allen A.M.E. Church on Merrick Boulevard, about a mile from downtown.
Reviving the business district, particularly because of its proximity to his church, was a focal point for Mr. Flake during his time in office, and he has enjoyed much credit and publicity for the progress there over the last decade.
So Gregory W. Meeks, who was elected to fill Mr. Flake's Congressional seat in February 1998, had big shoes to fill. In a nod to this, Mr. Meeks introduced himself to Newt Gingrich, then House speaker, in Washington at his swearing-in by saying: "I'm not Floyd Flake. I'm Greg Meeks, and I'm going to do the best I can."
Indeed, the question on the minds of many in southeastern Queens is not only to what extent Mr. Meeks will fill those big Flake shoes, but also whether he can replicate the Jamaica story elsewhere in the Sixth Congressional District. The district covers 580,000 constituents living in southeast Queens, Ozone Park and the eastern half of the Rockaway Peninsula.
While Mr. Meeks, 47, inherited from Mr. Flake the promise of a vibrant downtown Jamaica, he and other Queens and city government officials also face the stubborn reality of persistent poverty and blight in other parts of the district, including South Jamaica and the Rockaways, where the quest for economic development has felt to many something akin to waiting for Godot.
"There are streets around here that look like a third world country," said Ineze Patterson, executive director of the South Jamaica Urban Renewal Committee, pointing toward a neighborhood just blocks from downtown that has been largely untouched by development and remains one of the most downtrodden pockets of the borough.
Mr. Meeks, who lives in Far Rockaway, said in a recent interview at his main district office, in a strip mall on Linden Boulevard in St. Albans, that developing the long idle beachfront in the Rockaways is a top priority.
"Jamaica is moving," he said. "Since the Rockaways are lagging, I am focusing on having the Rockaways catch up."
Mr. Meeks campaigned on the theme of economic development for the district, and he was Mr. Flake's choice as a successor. Under Mr. Flake's tenure, several major projects in Jamaica, including the York College campus, a Social Security Building and other federal office buildings were completed, or started. A Family Court building is under construction in Jamaica.
"The community is now viewed from a different perspective," said Mr. Flake, in an interview in his plush office inside the $23 million cathedral he built in 1997. "It was assumed that this was a not a community you could make an investment in."
Mr. Flake now divides his time between church duties and his job as president for charter schools at Edison Schools, the nation's largest for-profit school management company.
Even with Mr. Flake's political savvy, getting businesses to Jamaica was not easy.
The developers of 1 Jamaica Center, the retail center on Jamaica Avenue, said it was a hard sell getting major retail chains to lease space in downtown Jamaica.
"It took a little bit of persuasion to get the national retailers in," said Michael Mattone, of the Mattone Group, adding that the center will include a 15,000-square-foot Gap Kids and a 30,000-square-foot Old Navy. "But that's a pretty strong statement when you have the 800-pound gorilla of retailers willing to commit 45,000 square feet of space in your project," he said, referring to Gap Inc., the parent company of both retailers.
The family-owned Mattone Group, based in College Point, Queens, built a 60,000-square-foot Pathmark in Springfield Gardens that opened in February and was the first major new supermarket in the area in decades.
National Amusements, the parent company of Viacom, will operate the movie theaters at 1 Jamaica Center.
Many business executives and residents say that they think Mr. Meeks will achieve real gains for the Sixth District and that he already has shown himself to be an astute politician who has continued what Mr. Flake started.
"Many of the things that Floyd Flake worked to create in terms of economic development are coming to fruition under the tenure of Meeks," said Timothy Marshall, president and chief executive of the Jamaica Business Resource Center, a nonprofit organization. "But the blessing is that Congressman Meeks has maintained the fervor and the emphasis on economic development that was started. When the baton was passed, it was passed in a good way."
But others wonder whether Mr. Meeks, without Mr. Flake's high profile and powerful church -- itself a major economic developer in southeast Queens -- has enough clout to sustain the same pace of development.
"Meeks doesn't have the charisma or the base that Reverend Flake had," said Thomas Crater Jr., of the First Presbyterian Economic Development Corporation.
Mr. Meeks and other players on the economic development scene in Jamaica are pinning much hope on the AirTrain. The light rail system to J.F.K. will stop in Jamaica by 2003, at an overhauled Jamaica Station at Sutphin Boulevard and Archer Avenue, where the E, J and Z subway trains and the Long Island Rail Road stop. The vision is that Jamaica, which will be linked to the airport by an 8- to 16-minute ride on the AirTrain, will be a major transportation hub with enough appeal to lure people out of the station and into the neighborhood to eat and shop.
How realistic that vision is remains to be seen, especially when most people using the station to get to or from the airport would just be passing through and all the trains would connect under one roof, the Jamaica Terminal. But local development officials say that new shops and restaurants would come to serve employees of airline offices and other office buildings envisioned as part of the development around the station.
"The AirTrain has enormous potential to help Jamaica," said F. Carlisle Towery, president of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, which has produced a thick plan containing dozens of possible developments in and around the train station, including a hotel and airline offices.
Mr. Meeks said he and others, including the development corporation, were negotiating with Jet Blue, Delta and American Airlines about the possibility of the airlines opening offices near the AirTrain station. Mr. Meeks also said he had talked to several major restaurant chains.
Jamaica, he said, "is a gold mine," for restaurateurs and other retailers and investors.
But even with a growing sense of optimism and opportunity in Jamaica, many residents still spend their money elsewhere, eating and shopping in Manhattan, Nassau County or other parts of Queens, like Forest Hills and Flushing.
The commercial strip, filled with fast-food establishments, still has no restaurant with tablecloths. The nightlife is still nonexistent, although some hope the movie theater will entice restaurants and higher-end retail shops to move in and stay open late.
Kathy Levy, 35, a maintenance worker for the city's Housing Authority, moved to Jamaica 15 years ago from Hollis, a largely affluent neighborhood in southeastern Queens. She was drawn by the convenience of the subway and the Long Island Rail Road, and she and her husband bought a co-op on Parsons Boulevard.
She sometimes stops for lunch at the Jamaica Market in the middle of the business district, which is operated by the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation, but she dines and shops outside Jamaica, in Forest Hills or Nassau County.
"It would be nice to go out to eat around here," she said. "God forbid if we ever get a Starbucks."
City Councilman Archie Spigner, the deputy majority leader, who represents St. Albans, said he was surprised recently to find a coffee shop had opened on Linden Boulevard, near 170th Street, between two takeout restaurants serving Chinese food and fried chicken. He also said he wished he could dine out in Jamaica.
"We have a way to go," he said. "But I see that more as an opportunity than as a problem."
Mr. Spigner said, "I don't envision in my lifetime we'll say, 'Yes, we did what we've set out to do.' " He added, "But it's a work in progress."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A revival in downtown Jamaica, Queens, seems within reach to many in the neighborhood. An $82 million retail center is under construction, left. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); Marc Tally, 52, opened his store, Simply Marvelous: Art About Us, in the Jamaica Market three weeks ago. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); Gregory W. Meeks, Mr. Flake's successor.; The Rev. Floyd H. Flake, former congressman.; (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of Jamaica Queens shows the location of the Sixth Congressional District: Many development hopes rest on Jamaica's AirTrain link to J.F.K. (pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: QUEENS, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); QUEENS, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FILM (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); FAST FOOD (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (71%); MOVIE THEATERS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (52%); AIRPORTS (51%); 

PERSON: GREGORY W MEEKS (87%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



659 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Enough Nearly Enough

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

 BODY:
Revising Mr. Dooley's adage: The election returns follow the Supreme Court.
Contrary to the foolish certitude of Al Gore's lawyers, and despite widespread expectation in legalistic minds, the Supreme Court of the United States did not run away from its ultimate responsibility to the republic. It will hear the case, however titled, of Bush v. Gore. 
 Those two candidates are not the legal antagonists, of course. The high court deals with more fundamental matters. At issue is the power of Florida's judiciary branch, interpreting what it sees as the spirit of the election law, to override the rules set forth by the state's legislative branch and being obeyed by its executive branch.
A double irony is in the fire: here is the high court faced with the need to be judicially activist at the federal level to direct state courts to act with judicial restraint. And here is the highest federal court -- noted for its abiding concern for states' rights -- agreeing to consider intervening in a highest state court's decision.
The maybe-final count certified by Florida's secretary of state, Katherine Harris, last night is cause for rejoicing by the Bush camp, but Bush knows that self-identification as president-elect smacks of usurpative swagger. His post-certification statement walked right up to that line, but this election opera ain't over till the fat lady sings, and the fat lady whose aria we await wears nine black robes.
Some Bush fans believe that the U.S. Supreme Court would never have taken the case if it did not intend to overrule the Florida high court, because a simple refusal to grant certiorari would have upheld Florida's re-recounting. But that would have been a cop-out, failing to fulfill the court's responsibility for finality. Whichever way the decision comes down, it must come as a thunderclap, stilling the American majority's doubts.
So we have to wait a week or so while the court reads the briefs, listens to oral arguments on Friday (let C-Span in!), deliberates and announces the decision that should end the suspense.
In the meantime, Democrats in Congress are afflicted with a severe case of cognitive dissonance compounded by Schadenfreude. Nobody will ever admit it, but many on the left secretly hope Gore will lose.
In the House, where a narrow margin keeps Republicans in control, these Democrats are certain that only a Bush presidency would ensure their triumph in 2002; the presidential opposition usually gains at midterm. With Gore as president, and a normal recession at last likely, Democrats would remain in the minority wilderness.
In the Senate, Democrats are silently seething at Joe Lieberman. He too prudently -- most say selfishly -- refused to give up his Senate seat to run for the vice presidency. If he had not insisted on playing it personally safe, another Democrat would easily have won his vacated Connecticut seat.
But the new Senate is to be 50-50. If the Gore-Lieberman ticket wins, the Republican governor will appoint a Republican to replace Lieberman, and the Republicans will remain the majority, 51-49. Such a winning of the White House would mean a losing of the Senate.
That makes all the difference in the world to Democratic senators, to committee staffs, to lobbyists. Newly shared control means jobs, budgets, committee assignments -- in a word, power. Tom Daschle, as well as ranking members from Fritz Hollings to Joe Biden, will this week express solidarity with Gore's aversion to defeat but would hardly enjoy continuing to chafe in what would be "the Lieberman minority."
That's why it is in so many Democrats' personal and partisan interest for the G.O.P.'s Bush-Cheney to win, and why still, small voices within Democratic bulls -- though fervently denied both publicly and internally -- mutter that it would be better for Democrats if Lieberman remained in the Senate. (A nascent Democratic constituency outside the Senate needs a Gore loss to open the possibility of a Clinton Restoration through Hillary.)
Some will consider this mischievous speculation inappropriate at a time of grave electoral indecision. Loosen up. After the high court decides, the middle will march, and the world will marvel at an amazing American political culture in which a landslide can prove a divisive force while a close election can turn out to be a tie that binds. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAWYERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



660 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: COUNTING THE VOTE;
Bush Says He Is 'Preparing to Serve'

 BODY:
Following is the statement last night by Gov. George W. Bush about the Florida vote certification, as recorded by The New York Times:
Good evening. The last 19 days have been extraordinary ones. As our nation watched we were all reminded on a daily basis of the importance of each and every vote. We were reminded of the strength of our democracy, that while our system is not always perfect, it is fundamentally strong and far better than any other alternative. 
 The election was close, but tonight, after a count, a recount and yet another manual recount, Secretary Cheney and I are honored and humbled to have won the State of Florida, which gives us the needed electoral votes to win the election. We will therefore undertake the responsibility of preparing to serve as America's next president and vice president.
During the past year and a half of the presidential campaign, I've had the privilege of traveling America and meeting so many of my fellow Americans: the teachers who mold our future, the volunteers who take time to help neighbors in need, the police and firemen who risk their lives to protect ours, the workers who keep our economy strong and growing. These experiences have confirmed that ours is a strong and vibrant nation full of people whose hearts are bigger than even our most bountiful harvest.
As our country ends its Thanksgiving weekend we have so much to be thankful for, beginning with the fundamental freedoms that are the birthright of every American: life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. And with our freedom comes responsibility for all of us.
Once our elections are behind us, once our disagreements are expressed, we have a responsibility to honor our Constitution and laws and come together to do the people's business. Two hundred years ago after a difficult election, President Thomas Jefferson reminded his fellow citizens that every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle. Vice President Gore and I had our differences of opinion in this election, and so did the many candidates who ran for the United States Congress.
But there is broad agreement on some important principles. Republicans and Democrats agree we need to provide an excellent education for every child at every public school. Democrats and Republicans agree that our seniors deserve a secure retirement and a prescription drug coverage in Medicare. Already there are some bipartisan groundwork on efforts to reform Social Security and Medicare. We have a duty to find common ground to reform these vital programs for the greatest generation and for future generations. Republicans and Democrats want a strong military to keep the peace, and a foreign policy that reassures our friends and restrains our enemies. There is growing consensus in Congress and America on the need to reduce taxes by reducing the marriage penalty and eliminating the death tax. And I will work with members of the Congress from both parties to reduce tax rates for everyone who pays income taxes in America.
Progress on these issues will require a new tone in Washington. The path to progress is consideration and fair dealing. I have worked with Democrats and Republicans in Texas and I will do so in Washington. I will listen and I will respect the different points of view. And most of all, I will work to unite our great land.
This has been a hard-fought election, a healthy contest for American democracy. But now that the votes are counted it is time for the votes to count. The vice president's lawyers have indicated he will challenge the certified election results. I respectfully ask him to reconsider. Until Florida's votes were certified, the vice president was working to represent the interests of those who supported him. I did not agree with his call for additional recounts, but I respected his decision to fight until the votes were finally certified. Now that they are certified we enter a different phase. If the vice president chooses to go forward, he is filing a contest to the outcome of the election and that is not the best route for America. All of us in this election fought for our views. Now we must live up to our principles. We must show our commitment to the common good, which is bigger than any person or any party. We cannot change yesterday, but we share a responsibility for tomorrow. Time runs short and we have a lot of work to do.
So tonight I'm naming Secretary Dick Cheney to chair our transition effort and Secretary Andy Card to serve as my chief of staff. I've asked Secretary Cheney to work with President Clinton's administration to open a transition office in Washington, and we look forward to a constructive working relationship throughout this transition. The end of an election is the beginning of a new day. Together we can make this a positive day of hope and opportunity for all of us who are blessed to be Americans. Thank you very much and God bless America.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas greeted supporters last night outside the capitol building in Austin. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION RESULTS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); ESTATE TAX (66%); THANKSGIVING (65%); MEDICARE (64%); TAX RELIEF (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000



661 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 3; Health & Fitness

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: From Jungle to Space in Pursuit of New Drugs

BYLINE: By DINAH ENG

 BODY:
Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, a NASA astronaut with roots in Costa Rica, and Dr. Jose Zaglul, president of a university that specializes in agricultural courses for the humid tropics, were driving onto Dr. Zaglul's campus in Mercedes, Costa Rica, one day in 1991 when they had a short conversation that has turned into a big idea.
Dr. Chang-Diaz, who was in Costa Rica to foster greater Latin American participation in space projects, had just met some Chilean scientists who were trying to cure Chagas' disease, a parasitic illness that kills about 45,000 people a year, mostly in Latin America. As leader of Earth University, or Escuela de Agricultura de la Region Tropical Humeda, Dr. Zaglul was passionate about teaching the importance of biodiversity and sustainable development of natural resources. 
 The two men agreed that somewhere in the diversity of flora and fauna in the tropical rain forest, a cure for Chagas' disease might be hiding, and that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration might be able to help find it. The agency, which is seeking commercial applications for human spaceflight, has been promoting the production of drugs in space since the early days of the space shuttle. For one thing, drugs made through crystallization can be made more uniformly in the microgravity of space.
Chagas' disease, Dr. Chang-Diaz and Dr. Zaglul decided, might be an area of research each could contribute to.
"The bulk of Latin American countries have not been able to work on space activities," said Dr. Chang-Diaz, a physicist who since becoming the first naturalized American citizen to join NASA's astronaut corps has flown on six shuttle missions and runs the space agency's Advanced Space Propulsion Laboratory in Houston.
"The people of these countries may not have a lot of money, but they have brain power," Dr. Chang-Diaz said. "In Latin America's political environment, the correlation between economic development and access to space technology is not yet seen. But the Chagas project could change that."
Dr. Zaglul has organized a Latin American coalition that includes Earth University, two universities in Chile -- Universidad Catolica del Norte and Universidad Santiago de Chile -- and others in Costa Rica, Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay and Mexico.
Dr. Chang-Diaz persuaded Dr. Lawrence J. DeLucas, a biochemistry professor at the University of Alabama at Birmingham who was on leave to NASA as a payload specialist, to join the effort. NASA agreed to fly experiments on the space shuttle for the consortium. "I'd never heard of Chagas' disease before," said Dr. DeLucas, who said Dr. Chang-Diaz persuaded him to visit South America to learn about the disease firsthand. "But in Chile, I saw some people in a village suffering from it, and became involved. Pharmaceutical companies aren't interested because the disease hits people who couldn't pay for a drug if there was one."
The disease, named after Dr. Carlos Chagas, its discoverer, is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. The parasite, in turn, is carried by insects that live in the walls of mud huts and old houses, and bite victims in the soft tissue around the mouth or eyes. The parasites move through the bloodstream, where they can live for years without causing symptoms. But in about a third of those infected, the parasites eventually cause fatal complications in the spleen, brain and heart. No satisfactory drug has been developed to treat the disease.
Chagas' disease also spreads through blood transfusions, from mother to fetus, and in organ transplantation. Because of those risks, the Red Cross screens donated blood for the parasite in certain states with heavy immigration from Latin America.
In February 1996, Dr. Chang-Diaz and Dr. DeLucas began a string of Chagas experiments on the space shuttle. In the first experiment, they tried to get a clearer picture of a protein made by the parasite, but the flight proved too short, Dr. DeLucas said. Experiments on four later flights focused on crystallizing extracts of an enzyme involved in Chagas' disease and on the development of compounds that might be useful in treating it.
One strategy is to find a substance that will bind with a protein made by the parasite and keep it from multiplying. With that hope, Earth University is concentrating on a protein from a rain forest tree, Bursera simaruba, also known as gumbo-limbo.
The effort was supported by the Exposition Foundation in Atlanta, in addition to NASA and the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Dr. Zaglul is seeking additional contributions for the effort, which since 1991 has cost Latin American countries $300 million for control of the parasite carrier and to combat blood transfusion transmissions.
As part of the collaboration, scientists from Latin America and the United States have conducted numerous exchange visits, and students from Earth University have interned at the Johnson Space Center, producing an atlas of space shuttle photography of Costa Rica that will be used by educators and agriculturists.
"We have combined indigenous knowledge and space technology in a way that utilizes each party's strengths to do together what we could not do individually before," Dr. Zaglul said. "I am sure that the potential of finding a cure for AIDS, malaria, cancer and other diseases are here in the biodiversity of the rain forest."
He went on, "I've been asked by some, 'Why should we help Latin America? Why don't you solve your disease problems yourself,' which are fair questions. But if we all pull together as one race, and help each other, we will be much more positive about how we perceive others. There will be a time when Latin America can help others."
Dr. Chang-Diaz sees another potential benefit. "There is a great connection between the rain forest, biodiversity and space," he said. "Earth University is developing revolutionary techniques for agriculture that take advantage of environmental conditions to grow crops in the framework of environmental wholeness. That's exactly what we must do on long-term duration space missions.
"Manned missions to Mars and beyond, for example, will require crews to grow their own food, recycle oxygen and maintain other environmental life support systems on a ship that must be self-sustaining. Jose moved heaven and earth to bring Earth's resources to the Chagas project. Imagine how much we could do if the whole world worked together like this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz, with Discovery last December, says, "There is a great connection between the rain forest, biodiversity and space." (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: COSTA RICA (96%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COSTA RICA (96%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE SHUTTLE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); RAIN FORESTS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (74%); SPACE PROPULSION (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); ANIMALS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOS CHAGAS (94%); FRANKLIN CHANG-DIAZ (94%); JOSE ZAGLUL (87%); LAWRENCE J DELUCAS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



662 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: From Welfare to Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "City Revises Plan to Create Jobs for Poor" (news article, Nov. 21): There has been little open constructive discourse on how best to spend taxpayer dollars earmarked for the transition of New York City's poor from welfare to work. 
 For our group, which trains welfare recipients and places them in jobs, a thorough assessment of each person seeking work is integral to our outcomes, and in two years, we have placed 660 people in jobs (51 percent of enrollees compared with 17 percent of those served under the city contracts described in your article), with impressive long-term retention rates.
I remain concerned about the only people who are truly imperiled by the current contracting difficulties: those still on welfare whose five-year time limits are fast approaching. The ticking of their time clocks must be stopped until we cut through the morass.
 
NANCY BIBERMAN
President, Women's Housing
and Economic Development Corp.
Bronx, Nov. 22, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S HOUSING&ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); 

PERSON: NANCY BIBERMAN PRESIDENT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



663 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 4; Health & Fitness

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: VITAL SIGNS: PATTERNS;
When Obesity Comes With a Price Tag

BYLINE: By ERIC NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Obese people often lament the social penalties that can come with their condition, over and above the toll on their personal health. Now a new study has tried to put a price tag on the ostracism.
For obese women in their 50's and 60's, the study found striking differences between their net worth and that of similarly placed women who were not obese. 
 At a recent conference of the Gerontological Society of America, researchers from the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research reported that in 1992, moderately to severely obese women ages 51 to 61 had net worths about 40 percent lower than their nonobese counterparts. In 1998, the net worth of obese women ages 57 to 67 was about $136,000 less than nonobese women of that age.
The conclusions were based on a study of more than 7,000 men and women in their 50's and 60's. For obese men, the researchers said, the financial differences were far less pronounced.
The researchers said they had reached their conclusions after factoring out other potential contributors to the financial gap, including a variety of demographic data.
While these could play a role, they said, they did not explain all the differences in net worth. The finding, they wrote, "is consistent with the notion that obesity is economically burdensome for women."
"This may be due to cultural norms of attractiveness, which stigmatize obese women in a variety of ways," they added. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL RESEARCH (61%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (57%); GERONTOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (57%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (57%); GERONTOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (57%); GERONTOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (57%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (57%); GERONTOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MICHIGAN, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OBESITY (96%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); MEN (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); AGING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



664 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 2; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: When the Trout Arrive, the Amphibian Exodus Begins

BYLINE: By MARTIN FORSTENZER

DATELINE: BISHOP, Calif., Nov. 27

 BODY:
The crystal mountain lakes of the Sierra Nevada, set among verdant meadows and snowy granite peaks, have become known throughout the world as a paradise for trout fishing.
But this anglers' heaven is man-made. Like most high-elevation lakes in the West, almost all of those in the Sierra were originally fishless. The trout got their start in hatcheries and were placed by the millions in the lakes by the California Department of Fish and Game. 
 The trout stocking, scientists are now finding, has been disastrous for some amphibians native to the areas.
A federally financed study released in April showed that the mountain yellow-legged frog has vanished from more than 90 percent of its native range in the high reaches of the Sierra Nevada primarily because it is being devoured by the introduced trout.
The frog's decline is so severe that the United States Fish and Wildlife Service could list it as an endangered species on an emergency basis next year, despite a recently announced moratorium on considering most new listings, said Jason Davis, a Fish and Wildlife Service biologist.
Research in other states has shown that trout stocked by state wildlife agencies have eliminated long-toed salamanders from some mountain lakes in their range, and reduced the numbers of Cascades frogs and spotted frogs at the lakes.
To preserve the amphibians, biologists are recommending that some states reduce the scale of their trout stocking and even remove the fish from some popular fishing lakes.
For the Sierra, federal officials have been developing a recovery plan for the mountain yellow-legged frog that would require eliminating trout from many back country lakes -- a plan that would probably anger fishermen and worry local communities whose economies depend on fishing tourism.
Mountain yellow-legged frogs were once among the most common amphibians in the Sierra.
In his 1924 book, "Animal Life in the Yosemite," the naturalist Joseph Grinnell noted an abundance of the frogs, but also that "the advent of fish in a lake sooner or later nearly or quite eliminates the frogs."
In the mid-90's, Dr. Roland Knapp, a fish biologist at the University of California at Santa Barbara, and Dr. Kathleen Matthews, a biologist with the federal Forest Service, began a three-year study of more than 2,000 high Sierra lakes to determine why the frog had vanished from most of its range.
They found that the frogs were seven times as likely to be found in the mountains of Kings Canyon National Park, located in the southern Sierra Nevada and where fish stocking was discontinued entirely in the 1970's, than in the Forest Service's adjacent John Muir Wilderness, stocked intensively with trout by the state since the end of World War II.
The biologists concluded that trout were the main cause of the frog's disappearance because the stocking of fish was the only significant difference between the two pristine preserves.
"There is no question that the decline of the mountain yellow-legged frog is dramatic, and there is no question that trout are playing an important role in the decline and appear to be the primary cause," Dr. Knapp said.
Trout are voracious predators of mountain yellow-legged frogs, devouring tadpoles as well as adults. The frogs are especially vulnerable because they are more aquatic than most amphibians, spending virtually their entire lives, from egg to adult, in the water.
Also, unlike many other frogs that metamorphose from tadpoles to adults in one year, the high-elevation frogs take three to four years to reach adulthood, so they are restricted to deeper bodies of water that do not dry up in summer or freeze solid in winter. Those lakes are the same ones that hold trout.
Environmental groups petitioned the Fish and Wildlife Service to list the frog as endangered this year because it is found nowhere else but the Sierra Nevada and in the San Jacinto, San Bernardino and San Ignacio Mountains of Southern California, where it has already been proposed for listing.
Like the frog in the Sierra, the long-toed salamander has a long maturation period, spending two to three years in the water as larvae vulnerable to trout. A study of lakes in the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness in Idaho, conducted by an Idaho State University graduate student, David Pilliod, found that stocked trout were preying heavily on the native salamanders there, reducing their numbers as well as those of spotted frogs.
Another study in the Trinity Alps Wilderness in Northern California is finding that long-toed salamanders as well as Cascades frogs have virtually disappeared from the highelevation lakes where Eastern brook and rainbow trout have been introduced.
"If there are fish there, there aren't any amphibians or there is just a remnant population, and there is no evidence of breeding," Dr. Hartwell Welsh, a Forest Service research biologist, said of the salamanders. "In places where you do find a lot of breeding, there are no fish. It's a pretty clean-cut result."
Another study in North Cascades National Park in Washington found that long-toed salamanders had either disappeared or were very rare at lakes that held trout.
Although the salamander is not considered an endangered species, its vulnerability to trout has increased concerns across the Pacific Northwest about trout stocking practices.
Dr. Andrew Blaustein, a zoology professor at Oregon State University, added that stocked trout could also transmit a fungus, saprolegnia. "The fungus will kill eggs of amphibians outright and will kill tadpoles and adults," he said. "Fish in hatcheries are just loaded with this stuff."
The studies have focused on alpine and subalpine lakes in the West because most were historically fishless and they are simpler, more fragile ecosystems where the impact of introduced trout tends to be more drastic than at lower-elevation waters.
The scientists believe the disappearance of amphibians has broader effects on ecosystems, particularly at the higher elevations where fewer animals can live. For example, the population of garter snakes, whose diet depends heavily on mountain yellow-legged frogs, has declined in the Sierra wilderness area, Dr. Knapp said.
The best and probably only way to save the frogs is to remove trout from lakes, biologists said. In the Sierra, that would require drastic steps, removing fish from as many as 20 percent to 30 percent of the range's roughly 8,000 lakes.
The federal Fish and Wildlife agency has asked the California Department of Fish and Game to stop stocking fish in the thousands of Sierra lakes within the frog's range that cannot be reached by car.
The California agency has stopped stocking some Sierra lakes and has experimentally removed trout from two lakes. But a final federal recovery plan for the frog is likely to go much further, requiring eliminating all trout from a great many Sierra lakes.
"It's unfortunate that the kinds of management we're trying to do now hadn't started 20 years ago," said Curtis Milliron, a state fish biologist who has supervised the trout removals in the Sierra so far. "That would have changed the course of history and the need for listing."
He added that any plan to remove trout from a large number of Sierra lakes would be highly controversial with some fishermen and local communities.
"As soon as you start talking about removing fisheries on a massive scale, you're going to have a lot of opposition," he said. "I think that there would be quite an uproar opposing that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The long-toed salamander, above, and the spotted frog are vulnerable to the introduced trout. Their populations have dramatically declined in mountain lakes in Northern California and the Pacific Northwest where trout have been stocked. (C. R. Peterson); Above, golden trout fingerlings being dropped into Hidden Lake in the Sierra Nevada mountain range. The trout, right, are not native to the high-elevation lakes, and they are believed to be responsible for the sharp decline of some amphibians in the area. (Stephen Ingram); Kathleen Matthews and Roland Knapp found that trout introduced into Sierra lakes changed the ecosystem. (Martin Forstenzer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA NEVADA BREWING CO (92%); SIERRA NEVADA CORP (92%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (92%); MOUNTAINS (91%); LAKES (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); FISHES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); AQUACULTURE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); ANIMALS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); WILDERNESS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



665 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
The Showtime Network prepares a $10 million campaign blitz for its 'Queer as Folk' series.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
AN extensive campaign to promote a new series on the pay-cable network Showtime is probably the most elaborate ever aimed by a mainstream marketer at gay audiences and probably the most elaborate ever with gay themes aimed at mainstream audiences.
The campaign, with a budget estimated at more than $10 million, is for the series "Queer as Folk," which begins on Sunday night and is scheduled to run for 22 episodes. The series is adapted from a popular British show and its sequel that drew large audiences last year with a titillating plot centered on the relationships -- sexual and otherwise -- among a tightknit group of gay men and lesbians, which included a seductive advertising executive. 
 The promotional blitz, ranging from print advertisements and parties to direct-mail brochures and giveaway items like paper fans, is the biggest for any series on Showtime, which competes furiously for subscribers and attention against the Home Box Office pay-cable network owned by Time Warner Inc. It is also emblematic of two trends that are helping to reshape the way advertisers reach potential customers.
On one hand, the campaign is indicative of efforts to appeal to the general audience by first generating positive word of mouth among niche markets deemed to be trend setters, like gays, blacks and urban residents.
"There's an opportunity to get a 'buzz' going in the gay community for 'Queer as Folk' and move outward from there," said Howard Buford, president and chief executive at Prime Access in New York, an agency that worked on the campaign and specializes in ads aimed at gay men and lesbians.
"It's relevant to a broader audience if you convince them the show is an authentic slice of gay and lesbian life," he added, "and the elements of storytelling and character are compelling enough that everyone can enjoy and relate to them."
The promotions also reflect the growing realization among traditional marketers that they need to keep up with the segmentation of the general audience into niches, each with its own interests and appetites. That is particularly true amid mounting signs of a slowdown in growth in consumer spending in the general market; campaigns focused on gay men, for instance, thrived during the last recession because of perceptions they spend more freely than their heterosexual counterparts.
"We wanted to cover all our bases," said Len Fogge, executive vice president for creative and marketing at the Showtime parent in New York, the Showtime Networks division of Viacom Inc., which has long presented TV series for specialty audiences like gays ("Brothers"), blacks ("Soul Food") and Hispanics ("Resurrection Boulevard").
" 'Queer as Folk' really speaks to our brand promise of 'No limits,' " he added, referring to the theme of Showtime's image ads. "We wanted to make sure everybody in the gay community knows about it and we get the buzz there."
Most of the campaign was created by an in-house unit at Showtime named the Red Group. Viacom sibling units like TDI, the outdoor advertising company, are being used along with independent media outlets and of course copious amounts of time on Showtime itself, including a "making of" infomercial.
The campaign focusing on gay viewers started in April. It uses with a knowing wink the phrase "coming out," which connotes declaring one's gay or lesbian sexual identity. For example, ads intended to stimulate Showtime subscription sales carry a special telephone number, 1-800-COMINGOUT. (Coincidentally, a study issued last week by Better World Advertising in San Francisco showed that 66.8 percent of the gay, bisexual and transgendered respondents said they subscribed to cable TV, but Showtime was not listed among their 12 most-watched networks, broadcast or cable.)
Other specialized elements of the "Queer as Folk" campaign include parties in gay clubs; posters on telephone kiosks and bus shelters in gay neighborhoods; the mail brochures, created by Triangle Marketing Services in New York; ads in magazines and newspapers aimed at gay readers like The Advocate, The Blade, HX, Out and XY; banner ads on gay-oriented Web sites like Gay.com and Planet Out; mints, coasters and postcards in gay bars; and the giveaway merchandise, which in addition to the fans include T-shirts and boxer shorts.
"The idea is to keep the integrity for the initial core audience while going after a more general audience," said Daniel Lipman, an executive producer of "Queer as Folk" along with Ron Cowen and Tony Jonas.
"It's a very hard call," he added. "There's no right or wrong way."
Mr. Lipman said he and the other producers were pleased with the campaign, adding that they had been involved in making decisions "for the key art and various promotional" elements.
"Showtime is trying to make an effort to include as many different kinds of audiences as possible," Mr. Lipman said. "Our job is to be as truthful to characters as you can.
"By doing all that, we hope we will find our audience," he added. "Within the specific, there's the universal."
While some aspects of "Queer as Folk" are being adapted for American viewers -- for instance, the locale was shifted to Pittsburgh from Manchester, England -- many of the plot lines are intact. The ad executive is still a central character and he is still seductive.
His name, however, was changed to Brian from Stuart.
No comment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The promotions for "Queer as Folk' include billboards, giveaway merchandise, promotional parties in gay bars and direct-mail brochures. (Showtime Networks) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (83%); VIA (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (61%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (83%); VIACOM INC (61%); SHOWTIME NETWORKS INC (58%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (56%); NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BRANDING (69%); RECESSION (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING (61%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (61%); CITIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



666 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Rightist, No. 2 in Romania, Is Eager for Runoff

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania, Nov. 27

 BODY:
Corneliu Vadim Tudor's spin doctor has his work cut out.
"Handling Vadim's image," Mr. Tudor's aide, Radu Toma, said, "is mostly telling him to calm down, calm down. I tell him not to be just in the eye of the hurricane, but also not to be the hurricane itself. Just to put his hand into it once in a while." 
 Mr. Toma tried to rein in the whirlwind in an election night interview in Mr. Tudor's office as 30 supporters lined the walls, murmuring assent or calling out words or figures that their leader was searching for.
"What the president means when he says the law must be enforced with a machine gun," Mr. Toma said, miming a solder with a slung weapon, "is not that he will shoot people, but that the machine gun is on the shoulder."
Mr. Tudor, president of the Greater Romania Party, apparently took second place in the presidential election on Sunday, stunning even himself. "It's a miracle!" he assured a reporter whose inclinations he knew nothing about. "A miracle! I believe in God, like you, Sir."
He added that he found the United States elections alarming and that he favors Gov. George W. Bush, who "is spiritual like me, a Christian" rather than Vice President Al Gore, who spent eight years associated with President Clinton, who refused to halt the Yugoslavia bombing in 1999.
Mr. Toma's work is cut out mostly because the first words from many Romanians when Mr. Tudor's name is raised are: "Vadim? He's crazy."
Crazy or calm, he received votes of many on Sunday. Although official results have not been released, polls of voters as they left polling places gave him 27 percent of the vote, far ahead of the pack of centrist technocrats whose fractious coalition has run the country for four years. The polls put him a mere 10 points behind former President Ion Iliescu, who is famous for calming the street fighting in 1989 that ended the Ceausescu dictatorship and for running the country until 1996.
Polls said Mr. Tudor did particularly well among the young, the poor and the less educated.
"I voted for Vadim," said Mircea Serban, 20, who shines shoes in the lobby of the Hilton Hotel here.
"The machine gun is right for them," he said, agreeing with Mr. Tudor's contention that "Romanian mafia, Russian mafia, Turkish mafia, Greek mafia" have all submerged this impoverished country in a cesspool of corruption.
Many young Romanians know nothing of Mr. Tudor's past as the "court poet" in the Ceausescu era and are not concerned about his desire to recover bits of Romania lost since 1918. They have not read his magazines, which refer to "dirty Jews," "fascist Hungarians" and "criminal Gypsies" and have published lists of his political enemies with their addresses just as vengeful miners whom he has stirred up are marching on Bucharest.
Rather, the young people have seen him on television in the last few weeks, when he stuck to his "liquidate the mafia" message and promised 500,000 jobs by reviving factories whose products he says the third world clamors for, tractors, weapons, medicines and drilling tools.
Mr. Tudor speaks rivetingly, with many joking asides, spinning parables out of his wide knowledge of world history. He loves America right up from its roots, for example, preferring the Pilgrim vision to Walter Raleigh's commercial one.
Bogdan Chirieac, chief editorial writer for Adevarul, a newspaper, calls Mr. Tudor a "deep extremist" who has remade himself to get votes. Mr. Chireieac pointed out that Hitler came to power when Germany was as desperate as Romania is now because its economy was lagging, too. But Mr. Chirieac said comparing Mr. Tudor to Hitler ended there.
"He's a big mouth, but quite a cowardly person," Mr. Chirieac said. "I strongly don't believe he would provoke international conflict."
In fact, Mr. Tudor is more reminiscent of Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, the showy and once-influential Russian nationalist, but cuts a somewhat sillier figure. Mr. Tudor went out to vote in a thick fog wearing bug-eyed movie-star sunglasses and hands out books of his romantic poetry, which in translation is a bit maudlin but full of original images.
He practically begs a questioner to "punish your informers" who have called him an anti-Semite. "What must I do to explain that I am a friend of the Jewish people?" he asked, citing Jacob's struggle with an angel and saying, "I carry a Bible!" while waving a copy of the New Testament.
When asked about his magazines' references to Jews, he rapidly said that they were mistranslations, that they were "jokes," that others wrote them, that he wrote in a "pamphleteer" style, that one Jew who complained was a former Soviet agent who wrote "four books of lies about the United States" and that he hated no one because he paid out of his own salary for "Christian supper for 130 families" of all backgrounds.
Mr. Toma, who lived in New York for 20 years, explained more calmly that Mr. Tudor was born in 1949, a son of a poor Baptist tailor and a Romanian Orthodox mother, in a section of Bucharest "someplace like north of 96th Street, where there were Romanians, Jews, Gypsies all together, so there was no reason to hate anybody."
But Mr. Tudor's generation was taught by its parents that Communism arrived on Soviet tanks in 1944, which, Mr. Toma said, "used the quislings at hand and brought in others, mainly Jewish." The feeling that Jews had sold the country to the Soviet Union pervades Mr. Tudor's generation, he said.
Mr. Tudor earned a reputation as an anti-Semite because of a dispute in 1984 with the chief rabbi of Romania over publishing the complete writings of a poet, Mihai Eminescu. They included unflattering references to merchants, which the rabbi wanted expunged. Mr. Tudor "took a violent tone against this" in his magazines, Mr. Toma conceded.
In any case, in the Election Night interview, Mr. Tudor offered to give up his magazines "if God will help me become president" in the runoff, on Dec. 10.
But people like Romeo Mocanu, a cabdriver here who plans to do what experts have predicted, may have more of an effect on the outcome.
"I don't like Iliescu, but in two weeks I will go put my vote for him," Mr. Mocanu said. "Because Vadim is crazy. If you have two bad things, you choose."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Civilians and soldiers casting ballots on Sunday in Bucharest, Romania. Corneliu Vadim Tudor, shown at an interview on election night, seems to have taken second place, surprising even himself. Former President Ion Iliescu, known for calming the fighting that ended the Ceausescu government, held the lead. (Above and left, photographs by Agence France-Presse; Dan Giurca for The New York Times)
 
Map of Romania highlights Bucharest: The runoff election for president of Romania is set for Dec. 10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (66%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WRITERS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); CORRUPTION (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



667 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Declined 3.9% In October

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27

 BODY:
Home resales declined in October to a pace that still keeps the industry on track for its second-best year on record, industry figures showed today.
Resales of single-family houses fell 3.9 percent last month, to an annual rate of 4.96 million, the National Association of Realtors said. Sales of existing homes will probably exceed five million this year, close to last year's record 5.2 million, according to estimates from the association. 
 At that pace, resales will help keep the economy growing as it begins an 11th year of expansion early next year. "Even with a slight decline in activity, I would still characterize the market as incredibly hot," said Marc McGee, general manager of Pardoe Real Estate in Washington. Pardoe is a unit of NRT Inc., the nation's largest residential brokerage firm. "It is still a very, very robust economy," Mr. McGee said.
Resales account for 85 percent of all houses sold and are considered an important gauge of consumer demand. Sales can stimulate spending on furniture, appliances, decorations and other goods.
The October sales rate of 4.96 million houses was the slowest since the 4.82 million pace of July. Still, the latest sales figure "is the slowest it will get according to our predictions," said David Lereah, the association's chief economist.
That is because unemployment is at a 30-year low of 3.9 percent, incomes are growing and consumer confidence is not far from a record high, analysts said. Moreover, mortgage rates are lower now than they were a year ago. The average rate on a 30-year mortgage last week held at 7.73 percent, down from a five-year high of 8.64 percent in mid-May.
Resales fell 4.8 percent in the Northeast, to 600,000 units at an annual rate; 4.5 percent in the Midwest, to a pace of 1.07 million units; and 11.6 percent in the West, to a pace of 1.3 million units. Resales rose 2.6 percent in the South, to a pace of 1.99 million units.
The supply of houses available for sale, another gauge of demand, rose to 4.2 months' worth in October from 4 months' worth in September.
The median price of a home fell 2.4 percent, to $138,200, last month from $141,600 in September. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NRT INC (69%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); 

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



668 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Rights Chief Proposes West Bank and Gaza Monitors

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 27

 BODY:
The top United Nations human rights official said today that international monitors should be considered for the West Bank and Gaza, where she called the conditions of Palestinian civilian life bleak.
In a report on a visit to the occupied Palestinian territories, Mary Robinson, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said the reality of life for Palestinians in the current crisis had been one of "grinding, petty humiliations, discriminations and inequalities" that are "ultimately dehumanizing." 
 In forceful terms, Mrs. Robinson described how the violence have led to curtailed economic activity and a loss of income for the Palestinians. In a recommendation that supporters of Israel said strayed too far into politics, she also called for an end to new Jewish settlements in the occupied territories and the removal of settlements in heavily populated Palestinian areas.
She said the benefits that Jewish residents in the settlements continue to enjoy -- little or no loss of income, no punitive curfews, separate access roads and domination of land and water resources -- contributed considerably to Palestinian resentment.
Trying to strike a balance as she described her tour, Mrs. Robinson said she found that "hate speech and incitement" was a problem on both sides. "The evidence was clearly visible on the walls of Palestinian houses and Israeli settlements," she wrote, adding that she had been "shocked by calls broadcast on Palestinian television and radio urging the killing of all Jews."
The call for monitors or further international action in Israel and the occupied territories has been roundly rejected by Prime Minister Ehud Barak's government. Israel views those proposals as ploys by the Palestinians and their international supporters -- led in the United Nations by Egypt, Malaysia and Pakistan -- to expand the roles of the United Nations and the European Union in the Mideast and to reduce the importance of American leadership.
The Palestinian push to raise demands on Israel seems at times to work at cross-purposes with Secretary General Kofi Annan's efforts to build a balanced role for himself and the organization in the region. He has made great efforts to help end Israel's isolation at the United Nations and to reduce the routine vilification that it receives from a majority of Arab and developing nations.
Mr. Annan has called proposals to send an international protection force to the Mideast to interpose itself between Palestinians and Israelis as unrealistic as long as Israel completely opposes it. He has met with and urged George Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader and now chairman of an investigation commission on the violence between Israel and the Palestinians, to go to the region quickly and begin work.
On her trip, from Nov. 8 to 16, Mrs. Robinson, a former president of Ireland, met a range of Israeli and Palestinian officials. At the Palestinians' request, though, she canceled a meeting with Ariel Sharon, the Israeli opposition leader whose visit in September to the Temple Mount, a site sacred to both Jews and Muslims, was followed by the new violence. She also went to Egypt and Jordan.
Her trip followed a series of votes in United Nations agencies that condemned Israel's military response to attacks by less-well-armed Palestinians. More than 270 people, mostly Palestinians, have died in two months of violence.
Her full report, sent to Mr. Annan on Sunday and to the General Assembly today, reflected the concerns of both Israelis and Palestinians.
Mrs. Robinson has no power to enforce her recommendations. But diplomats and some human rights leaders said they would bolster Palestinian arguments for outside help.
The Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith said the commissioner had issued "a distorted and detrimental report."
"The violence could stop immediately if the Palestinians chose to stop it and commit to a negotiated settlement with Israel," said Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the league.
Amnesty International wrote to the Security Council today to back the recommendation on rights monitors, but called for scrutiny of both the Palestinian and the Israeli administrations. And delegates from the Islamic Conference Organization met Mr. Annan and the Security Council after their summit meeting of Islamic nations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRELAND (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRELAND (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); POLITICS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CURFEW (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); WATER QUALITY (52%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (57%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



669 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Disappearing Democracy

 BODY:
Jean-Bertrand Aristide's election as president of Haiti the first time, 10 years ago, was hailed as a triumph for democracy in a land that had known little but dictatorship. But his almost certain return to power in Sunday's elections was achieved by trampling on democratic procedures. The weeks before the voting were marred by bombings and other politically motivated violence, and all serious opposition candidates boycotted the race, citing doubts about its fairness. With nothing important to be decided on Election Day, hordes of Haitians stayed home. Mr. Aristide remains a popular figure who probably would have won under any conditions. But his indifference to legal norms and tolerance for political violence raise concerns that he might one day lead Haiti back to dictatorship.
Mr. Aristide began his career as a courageous priest, championing the rights of Haiti's poorest and most abused citizens, first against the Duvalier family tyranny and then against a series of abusive military juntas. He won a remarkable victory in the 1990 presidential elections, but seven months into his term he was ousted by a military coup. Three years later he was restored to power through the forceful diplomatic intervention of the Clinton administration, backed by 20,000 American troops. Mr. Aristide left office in early 1996 because he was constitutionally barred from an immediate second term. In new elections, the presidency passed to Rene Preval, Mr. Aristide's designated successor. 
 Ever since, Mr. Aristide has maneuvered to assure his own return to the Presidential Palace, at great cost to Haiti's extremely fragile democratic institutions and its economy. Through his Lavalas Party and his ties to Mr. Preval, he has continued to play a disruptive political role behind the scenes. During this period Mr. Preval shut down Parliament for more than a year, and this spring the government oversaw legislative elections whose legitimacy has been widely disputed. The constant turmoil has estranged many former Aristide allies and contributed to a climate of violence. Most international aid to Haiti has been suspended, and private investors have kept their distance.
If Mr. Aristide is wise, now that he has achieved his goal of re-election to the presidency he will undertake essential and overdue reforms. For a start, he needs to create a professional police force, rationalize government administration and finances and make room for a functioning parliamentary opposition. Washington should make clear that a resumption of American aid depends on a return to the democratic ways that Mr. Aristide once symbolized. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUPS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); BOYCOTTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



670 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2106 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VS. MICROSOFT;
Excerpts From Microsoft Brief to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Microsoft brief submitted yesterday to the United States Court of Appeals in Washington, seeking to overturn the District Court's antitrust ruling:
 
Microsoft's Design of Windows Is Not an Unlawful Tie
. . . The district court held that Windows and IE are separate products because "consumers today perceive operating systems and browsers as separate 'products,' for which there is separate demand." The district court thereby rejected this court's June 1998 decision, stating that this court's test was inconsistent with the Supreme Court's decisions in Jefferson Parish and Kodak. 
 The district court's "consumer demand" test would chill innovation to the detriment of consumers by preventing firms from integrating into their products new functionality previously provided by stand-alone products -- and hence, by definition, subject to separate consumer demand. Even one of plaintiffs' experts on relief, Carl Shapiro, agreed that "innovation often takes place in the computer industry through the integration of various capabilities or functions into a single piece of hardware or software." For instance, word processors now include spell checkers and PC's now include built-in modems -- even though both features used to be sold separately as add-on products. Under the "consumer demand" test, the addition of such features -- which plainly benefited consumers -- could be challenged as an unlawful tie, thus requiring judges and juries to second-guess product design decisions. . . .
 
Microsoft Did Not Maintain A Monopoly Through Anticompetitive Conduct
 
A. Microsoft Does Not Possess 'Monopoly Power' in a Properly Defined Product Market
. . . Microsoft behaves nothing like a monopolist, constantly improving Windows and pricing it attractively. There is no danger of Microsoft's "becoming slothful, routinized, sleepy, or wanting in alertness, initiative, and progressiveness, as a result of the quiet life sought and usually achieved by a monopolist." Given the competitive nature of the software industry, the district court's holding that Microsoft has monopoly power is contrary to commercial reality. . . .
There is no finding -- nor could there be -- that Microsoft controls a significant percentage of the productive assets in the operating system business, and thus no finding that Microsoft could restrict total output of operating systems and thereby raise prices. Without acquiring new productive assets, existing competitors such as I.B.M. or the producers of Linux or BeOS could expand their "output" to meet the entire consumer demand for operating systems -- it is simply a matter of signing new license agreements. . . . In other words, the market position of Windows was created by, and is dependent on, consumer demand, not Microsoft's control of total output.
 
B. Microsoft Did Not Engage In Anticompetitive Conduct
. . . In ruling that Microsoft engaged in anticompetitive conduct, the district court improperly applied a burden-shifting approach. According to the district court, if the evidence reveals a significant "exclusionary" impact -- apparently, anything that adversely affects a rival -- then "liability will attach" unless "the defendant comes forward with specific, procompetitive business motivations that explain the full extent of its exclusionary conduct." This approach fails to distinguish between anticompetitive conduct that prevents a competitor from reaching the marketplace (thus decreasing consumer welfare) and procompetitive conduct that defeats a competitor in the marketplace through improved products, increased distribution and lower prices (thus increasing consumer welfare). . . .
The district court also erroneously relied on evidence of Microsoft's intent to win business from Netscape in concluding that Microsoft's conduct was anticompetitive. Consistent with this focus on intent, the district court placed great weight on the unremarkable proposition that Microsoft sought to maximize IE's share of browser usage at Navigator's expense, a perfectly procompetitive intent. . . .
 
C. No Causal Link Was Shown Between The Allegedly Anticompetitive Acts And the Maintenance Of a Purported Monopoly
. . . Plaintiffs have never contended that Microsoft acquired monopoly power unlawfully. To the contrary, the DOJ's own economist in 1995, Nobel Laureate Kenneth Arrow, acknowledged that "Microsoft appears to have achieved its dominant position in its market as a consequence of good fortune and possibly superior product and business acumen." As a result, even assuming it possesses monopoly power, Microsoft, "no less than any other competitor, is permitted and indeed encouraged to compete aggressively on the merits." . . .
 
The District Court's Extreme Relief Is Unsustainable
 
A. The District Court Improperly Entered a Sweeping Decree Without a Hearing
. . . By submitting six lengthy declarations and more than 50 new exhibits in support of their proposed final judgment, plaintiffs acknowledged that the existing trial record was insufficient to support the radical relief they requested. Whereas the trial focused on Microsoft's competition with Netscape in developing and distributing Web browsing software, plaintiffs' proposed decree was much broader, (i) encompassing products like Microsoft Office, Windows 2000 Server and Windows CE that are outside the markets defined by the district court, and (ii) addressing complex issues that were not even mentioned at trial, such as interoperability between PC operating systems and non-Microsoft server operating systems. . . .
The district court did not find that plaintiffs' proposed decree and Microsoft's vehement opposition thereto created no triable issues of fact. To the contrary, the district court recognized that plaintiffs' declarations and Microsoft's offers of proof presented highly divergent views on the "effects which may or may not ensue if the proposed final judgment is entered." The district court rejected Microsoft's request for an evidentiary hearing not because such a hearing was unnecessary to resolve factual issues, but because it did not think that testimony from knowledgeable witnesses would be useful in resolving such issues. ("In its experience the court has found testimonial predictions of future events generally less reliable even than testimony as to historical fact, and cross-examination to be of little use in enhancing or detracting from their accuracy.") The district court's doubts about the utility of evidentiary hearings are not grounds for repudiating this core element of due process.
 
B. The Breakup of Microsoft Is Unwarranted as a Matter of Law
Under general equity principles, an injunction should be no more burdensome than necessary to prevent recurring violations of the law. The district court's findings and conclusions of law do not begin to justify breaking up Microsoft, extreme relief not even hinted at in the complaints. Leaving aside negotiated consent decrees, no court has ever split apart a unitary company not formed by mergers. Microsoft did not become the leading supplier of operating systems by acquiring its rivals. Rather, it built its current position from scratch by (i) developing a succession of operating systems, each markedly better than its predecessors, (ii) broadly licensing those products to OEM's at attractive prices, and (iii) evangelizing system services supplied by those products to ISV's. The fact that no court has ever ordered the breakup of a unitary company like Microsoft demonstrates the extreme nature of the district court's decree. . . .
 
The District Court Committed Reversible Error in Its Handling Of the Case
 
A. The District Court Failed to Provide Microsoft With Adequate Opportunity To Prepare for and Defend Against A Dramatically Expanded Case
The district court abused its discretion in rushing this case to trial five months after the complaints were filed and in limiting Microsoft to 12 trial witnesses after plaintiffs were permitted to broaden their case well beyond the narrow claims alleged in their complaints.
A few months for discovery and pretrial preparation is "unheard of in antitrust litigation," particularly in cases involving a monopolization claim. At an ABA conference, the district judge stated that he put this case on a fast track to "avoid the Vietnam morasses" that the DOJ's Section 2 cases against I.B.M. and AT&T became. Although that was perhaps a laudable objective, the breathless pace of the litigation severely prejudiced Microsoft, especially after plaintiffs dramatically expanded their case. In the Seventh Circuit's words, if an antitrust case "ought not resemble a marathon, neither is the 100-yard dash a good model."
In the end, many witnesses with knowledge of disputed factual issues could not be deposed, and document discovery was artificially constrained. . . .
 
B. The District Court Created A Procedural Framework in Which Reliance on Hearsay Was Inevitable
Although a party seeking reversal based on erroneous admission of hearsay in a bench trial bears a heavy burden, that burden is met here. The district court largely suspended application of the Federal Rules of Evidence at trial, admitting scores of newspaper and magazine articles and other rank hearsay. In fact, the expansion of plaintiffs' case, together with the limitation on the number of witnesses, made reliance on hearsay inevitable. The district court evidently contemplated such a result, stating before trial that it expected the parties to make "liberal use of summary witnesses." Following this advice, plaintiffs' witnesses submitted lengthy written direct testimony that went well beyond their own personal knowledge. . . .
 
The District Judge's Public Comments Concerning The Merits of the Case Require That the Judgment Be Vacated And the Case Reassigned
On June 8, 2000, the day after judgment was entered -- but with important post-trial motions still to be heard -- numerous news organizations, including The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, Washington Post, Newsweek, USA Today and National Public Radio, began publishing stories based on interviews with the district judge. . . .
The district judge's public comments about the case both during and after trial violated the Code of Conduct for United States Judges. Canon 3A(6) provides: "A judge should avoid public comment on the merits of a pending or impending action." The official commentary states: "The admonition against public comment about the merits of a pending or impending action continues until completion of the appellate process." The Code of Conduct is thus clear that "a judge never may discuss the merits of a pending case in a nonjudicial forum, especially when he has reason to know that the parties to the litigation may appear before him again for further judgment in the case." Because "the proscription against commenting on the merits of a pending case in a nonjudicial forum is absolutely unequivocal," the district court's repeated public comments about this case are indefensible. Such comments are grounds for disqualification under 28 U.S.C. 455(a), which requires a judge to "disqualify himself in any proceeding in which his impartiality might reasonably be questioned." Indeed, the district court recently stated that he would consider recusing himself if this court does not affirm his ruling. . . . In fact, the district judge's remarks reveal sufficient antagonism toward Microsoft to "cause an objective observer to question the judge's impartiality." . . . The district judge's violations of the Code of Conduct are emblematic of the manner in which he conducted the entire case -- employing improper procedures and changing the rules of the game, always to Microsoft's detriment. To preserve the appearance of justice, should any of plaintiffs' claims survive review, the court should vacate the judgment as to those claims and remand for a new trial before a different district judge.
 
Conclusion
The court should reverse the judgment below and direct the entry of judgment for Microsoft. As to any aspect of the judgment not reversed, the court should vacate and remand the case to a different district judge for a new trial.
 
Terms of the Trade
 
DOJ -- Department of Justice.
IE -- Internet Explorer, Microsoft's browser.
ISV -- Independent software vendor.
Navigator -- Internet browser from Netscape Communications.
OEM -- Original equipment manufacturer (PC maker).
OS -- Operating system. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); JURY TRIALS (73%); JUDICIAL ERROR (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); JUDGES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (67%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



671 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: CONTESTING THE VOTE: SELECTING THE PLAYERS;
Washington Insider and Family Loyalist Poised for Job of Bush Chief of Staff

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27

 BODY:
The way Andrew H. Card Jr. tells it, the first time he ever set eyes on George W. Bush in Kennebunkport, Me., in 1979, the younger Bush cut a most unimpressive profile.
Mr. Bush was a defeated politician who had failed in his bid the year before to become a United States congressman from Texas. And Mr. Card, a Republican state legislator from Massachusetts helping the elder George Bush seek the Republican nomination for president, was taken aback by the difference between what he saw as the patrician father and plebeian son. 
 "I expected to see a Yalie, and what I saw was West Texas," Mr. Card said in a telephone interview of that first encounter with the younger George. "He was wearing cowboy boots and dirty jeans and was chewing tobacco and it was drooling out of his mouth."
But then, Mr. Card spun positive, adding, "He was sincere, warm and inviting. I liked him right off the bat because he was a regular, real person."
Now Mr. Card, 53, is the younger Mr. Bush's chief of staff in waiting, poised to move into a crucial office in the West Wing should Mr. Bush be validated as president. People who have worked with Mr. Card over the years say he would bring to the job total loyalty to the Bushes, a voracious appetite for hard work, a willingness to obey orders and a manageable ego.
"He's not a sparkling personality," said Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser in the Bush administration. "He's a very quiet, down-to-earth person. He's a workhorse not a show dog, absolutely."
Although Mr. Bush campaigned as a Washington outsider independent of his father's strings, Mr. Card is very much a Washington insider, a corporate lobbyist for the automobile industry and General Motors who served in both the Reagan and Bush administrations and enjoys the ultimate trust not only of Mr. Bush but also of his father and mother.
"I would do anything to help his parents," Mr. Card said in the interview. "They were wonderful to me. I have an infinite amount of love for them. They took an interest in my wife, the challenges I went through bringing up my kids. But my respect for Governor Bush is independent of my love for his parents."
Born in Holbrook, Mass., on May 10, 1947, Mr. Card graduated from the University of South Carolina with a degree in engineering. His wife of 33 years, the former Kathleene Bryan, whom he met in the fifth grade, was ordained as a Methodist minister two years ago. They have three grown children and four grandchildren.
Mr. Card's interest in politics began when he became president of the class of 1965 at Holbrook High School. After four terms in the State Legislature, he ran unsuccessfully for governor in 1982. Then Vice President George Bush helped land him an unglamorous but respectable job in the Reagan White House in 1983 as liaison with elected state officials, former Reagan and Bush administration officials said. He stayed for the rest of the administration.
"Vice President Bush rarely got involved in personnel matters, but he really went to bat for Andy Card," recalled Chase Untermeyer, personnel director in the Bush White House.
After serving as the elder Mr. Bush's campaign manager for the crucial New Hampshire primary in 1988, Mr. Card was rewarded with the job of deputy chief of staff in the Bush administration, and then served as secretary of transportation in its final year.
When a hurricane struck Florida that year, Mr. Card was made President Bush's personal emissary for disaster relief and dispatched there to dispel the widely held belief that the administration had done too little too late. He was one of the last people to leave the Bush administration, staying on until two months into the Clinton administration in what was referred to as the "out-transition office" to make sure all the Bush paperwork had been completed.
In "Barbara Bush: A Memoir," the former first lady Barbara Bush referred to Mr. Card as a man who repeatedly "had come to our rescue."
Mr. Card stayed on in Washington, turning himself into the top lobbyist in Washington for the automotive industry. In 1993 he became president and chief executive of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, where he oversaw the lobbying against tighter fuel-economy and air pollution regulations for automobiles and in coming up with technical arguments for why industrializing nations should proceed slowly in addressing global warming. When that organization was dissolved in 1998, he became General Motors' vice president for government relations in Washington.
Mr. Card prides himself on his humility. When he was offered the job of running the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia in July, he demurred.
"I told them they had the right to change their mind and asked them to stop and reflect on it" in case there were better choices, he told an interviewer from The Patriot Ledger newspaper in Quincy, Mass. He said he did not accept the assignment until he consulted with two other lieutenants from the Bush presidency, former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and former Secretary of State James A. Baker III.
As for being offered the job of chief of staff in waiting, he said in the telephone interview, "I'm thrilled, honored, appropriate in my humility, because I have to stretch to do the job. But I'd rather stretch than bend over to do it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew H. Card Jr. first met Gov. George W. Bush while working for the elder George Bush. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (68%); CHILDREN (66%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



672 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
New Leader and Layoffs at ReplayTV

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 27

 BODY:
ReplayTV Inc., a pioneering maker of digital video recorders, said today that its leader of one year had resigned, that it would lay off up to half of its work force of 260 and that it would reshape its business strategy.
Along with TiVo Inc., a competing Silicon Valley start-up, Replay has been trying to build a market for computer-based systems that replace traditional videotape recorders and allow television viewers to freeze programs and rewind, and to create custom "channels." 
 As part of its shift in strategy, Replay's founder, Anthony Wood, will become the company's new chief executive, replacing Kim LeMaster. The company also said that it would try to refocus its business on software licensing arrangements made with partners, including cable service providers and makers of cable set-top boxes.
"The new business model is focused more intently on the cable industry," said Steve Shannon, Replay's vice president for marketing. He said the company was in trials with Time Warner, Comcast, Charter Communications and AT&T. It has also announced a development agreement with the Motorola Corporation to build its software into a new generation of cable set-top boxes.
Analysts said that despite offering free electronic service, in contrast to TiVo's subscription service, ReplayTV had trailed in the consumer market. TiVo's digital recorders are now being manufactured by Sony and Royal Philips Electronics, while ReplayTV systems are being shipped by Panasonic. The company, which is based in Mountain View, Calif., said that it had so far sold about 20,000 units.
"TiVo has had the 'wow' factor," said Josh Bernoff, an industry analyst at Forrester Research, a computer industry research and consulting firm. "The result is that Replay has been left with a weakening market position and a device that works well but doesn't look as great."
However, that disadvantage will work to ReplayTV's advantage in striking deals with the cable industry, he added. TiVo has had difficulty building alliances with cable companies, who are not generally interested in showcasing competing brands.
On the horizon is Microsoft, which has also recently entered the market for personal video recorders with its own system, called Ultimate TV. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIVO (NASDAQ) (85%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); PHIA (BIT) (54%); PHIA (AMS) (54%); PHG (NYSE) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPLAYTV INC (93%); TIVO INC (85%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CD & DVD DRIVES (92%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); BRANDING (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



673 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Falling Short on Global Warming

 BODY:
The 170 countries that gathered in The Hague to address the threat of global warming have fallen short of their main objective, which was to translate the 1997 Kyoto Accord into a detailed, enforceable treaty. The British are blaming the French, the French are blaming the Germans, and nearly everyone is blaming the United States. But the inconclusive result and the post-conference recriminations should not obscure the fact that significant progress was made on important issues. Nor should it diminish the resolve of these nations to move forward when they reconvene next May.
The United States, by far the biggest producer of the greenhouse gases that are believed to be a big part of the warming problem, has a special obligation to see that the diplomacy continues. Whoever is chosen as the next American president needs to put the matter on his agenda right away and assemble a team to continue the negotiations. This should present no problem for Al Gore, an architect of the Kyoto agreement. For George W. Bush, who has acknowledged that global warming is a problem but has criticized Kyoto as placing too heavy a burden on the United States, it will mean a fast trip up the learning curve on a complicated issue. 
 The Kyoto agreement committed the industrialized countries to cut their greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels by 5.2 percent. The dominant greenhouse gas is carbon dioxide, caused by the burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil in power plants and vehicles. In principle, the agreement allowed nations to meet their targets in several ways. They could make "real" reductions in fossil fuel use, for example by investing heavily in cleaner fuels and cleaner plants. They could earn credits by investing in clean-air projects in other countries, or by buying those credits on the open market from other countries that had already met their targets. They could also claim credit for so-called carbon "sinks" -- forests that remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through photosynthesis.
The talks in The Hague collapsed mainly because the industrialized countries could not agree on how much credit should be given for trees. The United States' opening proposal was clearly unacceptable. It wanted to meet half its goal by counting its existing forests, a proposal the Europeans quite properly suspected as a scheme to get something for nothing. On the other hand, the Europeans showed scant appreciation for political realities in the United States, including Congress's deep suspicion of any treaty that would threaten economic growth by imposing crippling burdens on energy use. By the end of the conference, the United States had reduced the credits it wanted for forests and other sinks by nearly three-fourths -- a reasonable compromise, but not to some Europeans.
Nevertheless, there was heartening progress on other issues, including vital cost-effective mechanisms that will allow nations to trade emissions credits on the open market and claim credit for investing in clean-fuel projects abroad. There was also agreement on meaningful penalties for non-compliance. That progress -- and the increasingly persuasive science about the perils of global warming -- are reasons enough to try again in May. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (88%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (88%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GLOBAL WARMING (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); POWER PLANTS (74%); AIR QUALITY (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



674 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Stands by Stadium Plan, Despite Concerns Voiced in Poll

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
A new poll shows that most New Yorkers do not support a new sports stadium for the West Side, but Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had a blunt reaction yesterday to the findings: most New Yorkers are wrong.
"I have never been governed by polls," Mr. Giuliani said. "I think that very often people misunderstand economic development." 
 The mayor's comments came after he was told about a new Quinnipiac University survey that found 55 percent of city residents opposed to his still very tentative proposal for a stadium. Seventy-one percent said they were against any city subsidy for the project.
Mr. Giuliani said that city residents apparently failed to appreciate how many new jobs would be created by the stadium, which has been proposed for a several-block stretch west of 10th Avenue and running north from West 30th Street.
The stadium could serve as a home for the New York Jets, a major setting for the 2012 Olympics (for which the city is bidding to play host) and as an extension of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
Mr. Giuliani said similarly misinformed city residents most likely would have also opposed the state and city government's decision earlier in his administration to invest $184 million in the new headquarters for the New York Mercantile Exchange.
"But when they write the history of the renaissance of New York City, that is probably going to be a critical decision," he said.
The mayor took his point a step further, during a news conference at the city's Emergency Operations Center in Lower Manhattan, when he saw an opening to take a political jab..
"The public elects officials," he said. "Officials make decisions. Sometimes they make decisions against what an immediate knee-jerk poll is.
"I know in the Clinton era the polls dominate. But in the era of wisdom and common sense that we are hopefully moving to, we are hopefully getting beyond polls." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK JETS (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); OLYMPICS (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (52%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



675 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'S NEXT LEADER: THE SUCCESSION;
Filling Big Shoes? Better Tie Laces Tight

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The toughest job in American business is to succeed a highly successful chief executive.
For Jeffrey R. Immelt, who was named the next chairman and chief executive of the General Electric Company yesterday, that task will be even harder, as he will follow John F. Welch Jr., who has led G.E. for nearly two decades and built it into the most highly valued corporation in the nation. 
 Mr. Immelt, who was appointed the company's president immediately, will share management responsibilities with Mr. Welch for the next year. Mr. Welch -- known as Jack throughout corporate America and on Wall Street -- decided to delay his retirement, originally planned for this spring, after G.E. agreed in October to buy Honeywell International for $45 billion, in the largest acquisition it had ever undertaken.
Following in the footsteps of a popular chief executive is never easy, said Gerald C. Meyers, a former chairman of the old American Motors, and now a business professor at the University of Michigan. As just one example, he noted that M. Douglas Ivester, who took over as the chief executive of Coca-Cola in 1997, failed to measure up to his predecessor, Roberto C. Goizueta, and resigned barely two years after assuming the post.
"The guy behind is destined, if not doomed, to a life of insignificance or insecurity," Mr. Meyers said.
While Mr. Immelt is inheriting an extraordinarily well-managed company in General Electric, he faces extraordinary expectations from analysts and investors. With a strong economy at its back, G.E. has been able to produce a nearly uninterrupted stream of double-digit earnings gains, quarter after quarter and year after year.
"The pressure will really be on Mr. Immelt to continue the acceleration of earnings growth," said Robert Friedman, an equity analyst with Standard & Poor's. "I think it will be very, very difficult to pull that off."
In the current market environment, investors are likely to be impatient if Mr. Immelt stumbles. While General Electric has a long record of stability at the top and has had only eight chief executives since it was incorporated in 1892, corporate boards have been a lot more willing lately to move rapidly to replace struggling leaders.
"I think we've seen the markets will not give him much of a honeymoon period, if any," said E. Ralph Biggadike, a business professor at Columbia University.
Among the chief executives who have recently been replaced after they disappointed investors and board members are Lloyd D. Ward at Maytag, Richard A. McGinn at Lucent Technologies and Michael C. Hawley at Gillette.
Over the next year or so, while he is serving as heir to the corporate throne, Mr. Immelt may not face a true test in maintaining General Electric's momentum, analysts and other experts say.
"I am not worried about them tripping up and taking it out on Jeff and his reputation," said Michael Holton of T. Rowe Price. Even as the economy softens, the company is expected to deliver 20 percent annual earnings growth over at least the next year because of its diverse portfolio of businesses, he said.
James M. Citrin, an executive recruiter with SpencerStuart, agreed. "The ability to execute," he said, "is so ingrained in the corporate DNA at this stage that the big challenge will be two to three years from now. The big question is going to be can the company, in its current structure, continue to thrive."
Mr. Immelt's most critical challenge, management experts said, will be to develop a successful long-term strategy for the immense company, which has become ever larger and more complicated as Mr. Welch transformed it from the traditional manufacturing concern he inherited in 1981 into a diverse empire with leading roles in everything from light bulbs to aircraft engines to network television to corporate lending.
While he will be able to build on many of the foundations Mr. Welch has laid, Mr. Immelt will also have to create a new, overaching vision of the company, experts said. The current General Electric, with its increasing emphasis on services rather than manufacturing, needs to respond quickly to an ever-changing business environment and the demands of the Internet.
What Mr. Immelt must do is concentrate on bringing his own skills to managing General Electric, according to management experts and executive recruiters. "He has to think through what is needed for 2000 to 2025," Professor Biggadike said, "and that is going to be very different from the times Jack Welch had.
Robert J. Gariano, who spent 15 years at G.E. and is now an executive recruiter for Russell Reynolds Associates, maintained that Mr. Immelt cannot rely on simply striving to do better at what Mr. Welch did. He will have to do many things differently.
The advantage Mr. Immelt will have, as a chief executive in his mid-40's, Mr. Gariano said, is that he is much more familiar with the latest technological developments than older executives like Mr. Welch. "He grew up with a laptop on his desk," Mr. Gariano added. "Jack and I grew up with slide rules."
Making Mr. Immelt's succession more complicated is Mr. Welch's decision to stay until the end of next year. The presence of a former chief executive, whether on a company's board or even more directly involved in the business, complicates decision-making at best and can, at worst, undermine the authority of a new chief executive before he or she really gets started.
"It's kind of an awkward circumstance," said Michael Useem, a management professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Immelt will not have sole responsibility for making decisions over the next year, he said, but he will have to live with those decisions.
Steven A. Seiden, president of Seiden Krieger Associates, an executive recruiting firm, echoed those thoughts.
"The challenge that Jack Welch will face now," he said, "is staying out of the day-to-day management of the company and focusing solely on the closing of the Honeywell acquisition."
Given Mr. Welch's own experience in taking over General Electric from Reginald Jones, and his own appreciation for the way his predecessor very clearly moved aside, many think that Mr. Welch will not prove much of a distraction. Mr. Immelt and Mr. Welch already have a solid working relationship, and Mr. Welch prides himself on allowing his managers wide latitude. "I never knew them to limit how much you can bite off," Mr. Gariano said.
To the extent that Mr. Welch concentrates on making the Honeywell acquisition go smoothly, Mr. Immelt will benefit, according to Professor Biggadike. "It's crucial that it goes right," he said.
But Mr. Immelt must first make sure that he ends up getting the top job. While analysts and investors say it is unlikely that Mr. Immelt will not succeed Mr. Welch, he is not yet in the executive suite. John R. Walter, for example, was brought in to succeed Robert E. Allen at AT&T in 1996 but never made it to the top.
"A year is a long time," said Charles M. Elson, the director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. "In my view, it's not over until it's over." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%); ALU (PAR) (61%); ALU (NYSE) (61%); ALU (BIT) (61%); HON (NYSE) (56%); HON (LSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (61%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MICHIGAN, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXECUTIVES (93%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JACK WELCH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



676 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Jekyll and Hyde

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN; Gail Collins is on vacation.

 BODY:
In a funny way, we should be thankful for this bizarre post-election campaign. Because it has actually allowed us to see George W. Bush and Al Gore so much more clearly.
If Mr. Bush wins the post-election, it will be, in part, because he reverted to his true self, and his party to its true self, after a campaign in which they persuaded voters that they had become a kinder, gentler, more inclusive G.O.P. If Al Gore loses the post-election, it will be, in part, because he was never himself during the real election, but rather somebody else every week. Therefore he could never ignite the enthusiasm of America's young, or his own party, so he had to personally solicit supporters for his post-election campaign. 
 During the G.O.P. convention in Philadelphia we were treated to the view of a Republican Party that had become less white, less elitist, more multiracial, led by a Texas governor who promised to be a uniter, not a divider, and who would distance himself from the mean-spiritedness of the Newt Gingrich/Tom DeLay era.
During the post-election, however, we have seen a Republican Party dominated by elderly elite white men and women, who will delegitimize any court, any judge and any ruling that stands in the way of Mr. Bush's presumed right to govern. The Bush aides will question the patriotism of anyone who raises doubts about confusing military ballots, but they evince no concern for blacks, Jews and Hispanics who wrongly voted for Pat Buchanan, or no one, because of their confusing ballots. So much for the Spirit of Philadelphia.
The Republican strategy has been consistent. Every Florida official, judge and canvassing board has been given a choice: Either rule for Governor Bush or be labeled as illegitimate. When the Florida Supreme Court ruled in favor of Mr. Bush that Miami-Dade County did not have to hand-recount, Republicans praised that court for acting responsibly, and when the same court ruled in Al Gore's favor, it was branded as a Democratic rubber stamp. When pro-Bush Florida officials tilt decisions his way, the G.O.P. says they're just following the law. when pro-Gore county election boards tilt decisions his way, they're accused by the Bush team of hijacking the election.
This is conservatism without compassion, and it's precisely the sort of nastiness that Americans came to detest about the Republicans during the government shutdown and impeachment trial, which forced the G.O.P. to draft a kinder, gentler candidate. So much for that. Any party that is ready to win this way will, in the crunch, rule this way.
Mr. Gore's problem is slightly different. While Mr. Bush has no problem summoning a mob to do his bidding, Mr. Gore would have to rent one. Many Democrats have to be cajoled to speak on his behalf because he ran a smorgasbord campaign -- with a daily special for each interest group -- that never added up to any larger, inspirational vision that would motivate people to go into the streets for him. He never articulated any ideal for how America could harness its economic success -- and build coalitions between responsible social activists, enlightened companies and inspired government -- to promote social justice at home and abroad. Mr. Gore couldn't even come out clearly for the environment. So for many Democrats, Al Gore is a walking, talking dimpled chad -- someone they prefer, but not enough to push all the way for.
But give Mr. Gore his due: He proposed the only fair solution -- the only solution where neither side could have predicted the outcome -- hand-counting every vote in Florida by a common standard. Mr. Bush rejected that, and in doing so he guaranteed that there could be no legitimate 43rd president. Mr. Gore can't win -- with legitimacy -- by counting dimples in only Democratic counties, and Mr. Bush can't win -- with legitimacy -- by shutting down hand counts that clearly show more votes for Mr. Gore.
During the campaign, people said we don't know who Al Gore is but we know who George W. Bush is. Not anymore. If Mr. Bush wins, it will be because much of what he told us he was, he's not. And if Mr. Gore wins, it will be because everything we hoped he would be was sucked out of him by political consultants -- everything but what we already knew was there: the raw hunger to win. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); IMPEACHMENT (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



677 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'S NEXT LEADER: THE TRAINING GROUND;
Success Built On Selling Imaging Gear

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Jeffrey R. Immelt, the next chief executive of General Electric, made his mark at GE Medical Systems by building up sales of imaging machines, a big-ticket, older technology.
Hospital consultants said that by offering services, including financing, to customers, he breathed new life into a mature technology. With help from the G.E. financial services unit, Mr. Immelt offered million-dollar scanners on terms that attracted cash-short hospitals. 
 His strategies have gained momentum at a time when health care costs have been turning upward. Hospitals and doctors are pressing managed care insurers for higher fees after several years of severe cost controls.
About a third of the nation's 4,800 hospitals are prosperous and can consider buying improved versions of an array of diagnostic machines. Most hospitals have at least one magnetic resonance imaging machine, or M.R.I., the computerized scanners that can often distinguish between benign tumors and cancerous ones.
Stuart Altman, a health economist at Brandeis University, said hospitals became "much more financially secure" recently after substantial increases in payments by health maintenance organizations and insurers. That has been good news for medical technology makers like G.E., Siemens of Germany, Royal Philips Electronics of the Netherlands and Toshiba and Hitachi of Japan.
"The business has been accelerating in the United States for the last 18 months or so," said Mark Davies Jones, a health care technology analyst in London with Salomon Smith Barney. "It was a difficult business in the mid-90's."
GE Medical was the first unit to design a product using Six Sigma, a quality management program favored by John F. Welch Jr., the G.E. chairman and Mr. Immelt's mentor. And Mr. Immelt has been a leader in developing e-commerce at G.E.
Mr. Immelt is also popular with hospital executives, said Jeff Goldsmith, an independent health care consultant based in Charlottesville, Va. "He shows up at retreats for board members of G.E. clients and talks about the relevance of Six Sigma for hospitals," Mr. Goldsmith said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); PHIA (BIT) (58%); PHIA (AMS) (58%); PHG (NYSE) (58%); TOS (LSE) (55%); 6502 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (53%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: GE MEDICAL SYSTEMS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); GE HEALTHCARE (84%); SIEMENS AG (58%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (53%); VIRGINIA, USA (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOSPITALS (90%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); SIX SIGMA (88%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (77%); INSURANCE (76%); CANCER (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JACK WELCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



678 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Guggenheim Gets Backing for New Museum

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum has won the right, and the financial backing of the city, to build a curvilinear outpost on the East River, officials at City Hall said late yesterday, calling the museum's $678 million proposal crucial to an effort to revitalize a large swath of Lower Manhattan.
The new 40-story museum, designed by the Los Angeles architect Frank O. Gehry, would rise above three East River piers at the foot of Wall Street on land that would be conveyed to the Guggenheim by the city, officials said. 
 The 550,000-square-foot museum would be twice as large as the free-form complex Mr. Gehry built for the Guggenheim in Bilbao, Spain, and 10 times the size of the museum's Upper East Side headquarters, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
Much work remains before construction can begin, including a major fund-raising campaign and a comprehensive land use, environmental and zoning review. The project will be subject to the approval of the City Planning Commission, the City Council and other government entities.
If the museum proceeds as envisioned, it will include new departments of architecture, design, media and technology; exhibition and office space; a 1,200-seat performing arts center; shops; and four restaurants. It would ultimately become the museum's headquarters, employing about 400 people and attracting an estimated 2 million to 3 million visitors a year. Outside, there would be a skating rink, a riverfront promenade, a sculpture garden and a park.
"It's a real breakthrough for us," said Thomas Krens, the director of the Guggenheim. "The architecture required a spacious site, and New York City is not exactly full of spacious sites."
The city would provide the land and a "sizable" contribution to the project, somewhere along the lines of the 10 percent dedicated to the Museum of Modern Art expansion about to get under way in Midtown, although city officials last night would not be specific about the city's intended contribution to the Guggenheim project.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has scheduled an appearance this morning at the Guggenheim's headquarters to announce the city's intended role in the project and, in effect, to promote the ongoing fund-raising, city officials said. They said that without the land and the city's financial help, the project would essentially have been impossible.
"This is the critical first step in making this project a reality," Deputy Mayor Anthony P. Coles said. "This will do for downtown Manhattan what Times Square has done for the 42nd Street area."
The project -- not far from the South Street Seaport Museum, the Museum of Jewish Heritage, the Ellis Island ferries and a proposed skyscraper museum, among other institutions -- would create what city officials are calling a Museum Mile like the one along Central Park on the Upper East Side.
"This is sure to confound the politically correct people," said Sunny Mindel, Mr. Giuliani's press secretary, in a pointed reference to critics who think the administration has focused too much on stadiums. "But with this project, the mayor will have done more for culture in New York City than he did for baseball."
Mr. Krens said he realized that many steps remained before construction could actually begin. "We have anticipated those issues from the very first day," he said of the various required approvals. "Our analysis is, there should be nothing that at this point would appear to be a stumbling block. That does not mean we feel it is a done deal."
Guggenheim officials said last night that they hoped to have commitments from private sources by March for half of the $650 million the museum needs to raise for the project. They said they also hoped to raise $200 million for an endowment.
Peter Lewis, the museum's chairman, has committed to finance at least 25 percent of the total project cost, Mr. Krens said.
The cloudlike design proposal by Mr. Gehry calls for a structure built of titanium, glass and stone, ultimately rising to a maximum height of 40 to 45 stories, although it would have far fewer actual floors. The new museum would house artworks created after the end of World War II, giving it a separate identity from the uptown museum, which would generally feature early Modernist works.
The collection would be shown on three levels of exhibition space covering about 225,000 square feet, with about 80,000 square feet for the permanent collection and the rest for temporary shows.
The Guggenheim announcement comes in the same week that final city approval is expected for the Museum of Modern Art's $650 million expansion project. A City Council zoning panel yesterday unanimously approved that project, and Mr. Giuliani said he intended to sign the measure.
For the Guggenheim, pursuing the various land use and other government approvals is expected to take about two years, meaning that it will be far into the administration of the next mayor before the fate of the project is decided. Construction is expected to take three additional years.
The complex would be built just below the South Street Seaport, in the area of Piers 11, 13 and 14 and Pier 9, which was recently demolished. Piers 13 and 14 support tennis bubbles. Pier 11 would be retained by the city as a ferry terminal, according to the plan, but would be integrated into the museum's design.
The City Charter prohibits the sale of city-owned waterfront land, meaning that the site would probably be leased to the museum, officials said.
The officials would not provide details about other proposals for the site that were considered and rejected. Those include a floating theater and hotel, a youth hostel, a cruise ship dock, an aquarium and tennis courts.
The Guggenheim proposal, if it ultimately survives, would be the latest in a rapid series of expansions by the institution, which in addition to the branch in Bilbao has museums in SoHo and in Berlin.
Museum officials say they recognize that there may be community opposition to the project, because of traffic congestion or blocked views on the waterfront. They admit that they have not even figured out where visitors would park. "I'm very interested in getting input from the local downtown community," Mr. Krens said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A model of the Guggenheim Museum designed by Frank O. Gehry for piers at the foot of Wall Street. The $678 million plan is subject to the approval of the City Planning Commission and the City Council. (David Heald/Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)(pg. B6)
 
Map of Manhattan shows the location of the proposed museum site: A proposal calls for a new Guggenheim Museum, designed by Frank O. Gehry, on the East River in Lower Manhattan. (pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (71%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MAYORS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ZONING (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); FERRIES (50%); 

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



679 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
GARDEN CITY: JUDICIAL ELECTIONS
Final vote tallies for the 10th State Judicial District, which covers Nassau and Suffolk Counties, are expected by Friday, according to the Nassau County Board of Elections. These results will determine the winners of eight State Supreme Court judgeships, with three of the eight seats still in question. The Suffolk County Board of Elections certified its results a week ago, while the Nassau board must still certify its results. The two boards had to tally 70,000 absentee and other ballots that were not counted on election night. Michele M. Woodard, a Democrat and former assistant attorney general from Westbury, was believed to have won a position on the court after election night, but the official count in Suffolk eroded her lead. If she wins, she will become the first black woman on the Supreme Court on Long Island. Tina Kelley (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: KARATE SCHOOLS SETTLE
The owner of New York's largest karate school agreed yesterday to pay $195,000 in penalties and costs to register the school as a franchise, settling civil charges brought by Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer, pictured. Daniel Schulmann, the owner of Tiger Schulmann's Karate Centers, had been charged with violating several state laws. He had denied that the 35 karate centers he operated constituted a franchise, even though the centers used the same logos and pooled their money for advertising, Mr. Spitzer said. Steve Bosyk, a spokesman for the centers, which have their headquarters in Paramus, N.J., said the karate school had agreed to settle the case as an alternative to a more costly lawsuit. (AP) 

SARATOGA SPRINGS: HUDSON RIVER MEETINGS
The federal Environmental Protection Agency will conduct two public meetings to release and discuss proposed plans for dealing with cancer-causing polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, in the Hudson River. The meetings are set for Dec. 12 at the Saratoga Springs City Center in Saratoga Springs, and Dec. 14 at the Sheraton Civic Center Hotel in Poughkeepsie. Both meetings will begin at 7 p.m., and will be preceded at 4:30 p.m. by an exhibit on the Hudson River. Next month, the E.P.A. will release the results of its eight-year study of the issue and make recommendations on how to handle the PCB's. (AP)
 
QUEENS: MAN CHARGED WITH FRATRICIDE
A 23-year-old Queens man was to be arraigned by this morning in the stabbing death of his older brother on Sunday night, the police said. The authorities said the suspect, Anthony Bacon, stabbed Albert Bacon, 27, in the left shoulder and left eye in the Queensbridge apartment where the two men lived with their parents. The authorities said the men's father, who is also named Albert, awoke when he heard his sons fighting. Anthony Bacon went into the kitchen and grabbed a knife, stabbing his brother about 10:15 p.m. in the living room, the authorities said. They said the suspect was charged with two counts of manslaughter and one count of weapons possession. Elissa Gootman (NYT)
 
ALBANY: CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS DOWN
After years of building on borrowed money, state agencies so far have submitted spending plans without new major construction projects, a state budget official said yesterday. The Office of General Services was the only agency to present a capital spending plan with firm numbers yesterday, and that included a request for less money than it received for the 2000-01 fiscal year, officials said. The capital program for the agency, which builds and maintains structures statewide, called for $89.5 million next year. The proposal includes major construction and renovation under way in Albany and other sites, but no new proposals. (AP)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
TRENTON: MULTIPLYING MILLIONAIRES
The number of millionaires living in New Jersey has nearly tripled in the last decade. The surging stock market and the nation's prosperous economy are credited for increasing the number of millionaires, to more than 8,000 in 1998 from 3,000 in 1988, according to the state's annual "Statistics of Income" report. Millionaires made up 1 percent of the taxpayers and earned 12 percent of the total wealth in 1998. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
HARTFORD: JUDICIAL OFFICIAL QUITS
Judge Robert C. Leuba announced yesterday that he was quitting his post as chief court administrator because of health issues, effective immediately. "I regret that I could not give you more notice," Judge Leuba wrote to other judicial department administrators. "However, this decision is based on health considerations that have recently come to light." He did not specify the health issues that led to the decision. Judge Leuba was sworn in in January 1999 after he was appointed by Chief Justice Robert J. Callahan. The chief court administrator's duties include management of the judicial system, from the State Supreme Court to traffic courts. Judge Leuba will become a senior judge and retire from active duty. (AP)
 
HADDAM: NUCLEAR FUEL PLANTS
Operators of the mothballed Connecticut Yankee nuclear power plant are making plans to store spent fuel rods on site until a national storage site is ready. The town zoning board and the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission are reviewing the plan to move the spent fuel from a pool into giant concrete casks farther away from the plant. The commission plans to discuss the storage system and other issues related to the decommissioning of the plant on Thursday. (AP)
 
HARTFORD: STATE WORKERS CLEARED
Employees at Sherwood Island State Park in Westport were rude but not racist when a group of campers from a Bridgeport Y.M.C.A. visited in July, Richard Blumenthal, the state attorney general, said yesterday. Mr. Blumenthal's office investigated allegations that park employees harassed 267 children and 40 camp counselors -- most of them black or Hispanic -- on July 13. The evidence leads "unfortunately and unavoidably" to the conclusion that the staff members were "unfair, rude and confrontational," Mr. Blumenthal said. Lisa Scails, president of the state N.A.A.C.P., which received initial complaints about the incident, could not be reached for comment. (AP)
 
CALENDAR
 
Today
FOXWOODS CASINO STUDY
John G. Rowland, governor of Connecticut, plans a news conference to announce results of an economic impact study of the Mashantucket Pequot tribe and its Foxwoods Resort Casino.
 
LANDMARKS HEARING
The Landmarks Preservation Commission plans a regularly scheduled public hearing. Public hearing room, 100 Old Slip, Manhattan, 9 a.m. Information: (212) 487-6782.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SARATOGA SPRINGS CITY CENTER (62%); JUDICIAL OFFICIAL QUITS (59%); NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SARATOGA SPRINGS CITY CENTER (62%); JUDICIAL OFFICIAL QUITS (59%); NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); MARTIAL ARTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); JUDGES (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); HOMICIDE (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (63%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (63%); 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



680 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: A Waterfront With Potential, Still Unrealized

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
For more than 15 years, the Queens West development at Hunters Point in Queens was oft-heralded as the beginning of an East River gold coast, a swirl of apartment houses, office buildings and hotels on a dilapidated industrial waterfront with a spectacular view of Manhattan.
Yet the only new development on the 74-acre parcel is a small park and a 42-story apartment tower that resembles a lone ship on an empty sea. 
 Now a developer, Avalon Bay Communities, has begun work on a 32-story building with 372 apartments, the first part of a three-building complex. At the same time, the city, the state and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey are close to designating a developer for a two million-square-foot office complex, hotel and conference center at the center of Queens West, a one- to two-block-wide sliver along the East River from Newtown Creek north to 46th Avenue.
Government officials are also picking a developer, for a 20-acre parcel owned by PepsiCo at the north end of the development. The developer would buy PepsiCo's land and its bottling plant for a $600 million residential complex of seven buildings and 2,700 apartments.
State and city officials are hoping the real estate boom in Manhattan will spill over to Queens West, making it an alternative to the New Jersey waterfront for commercial and residential tenants seeking lower rents.
But before much more can happen, the uneasy partners that make up the Queens West Development Corporation -- the city, the state and the Port Authority -- must overcome their differences and provide tens of millions of dollars for roads, sewers and utilities.
"Right now there's $1.2 billion worth of projects waiting to be developed," said Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority and New York's chief economic development officer. "But we need some additional funding. We hope it'll come from the Port Authority. We also need some additional money from the city."
The Port Authority's board is expected to discuss investing an additional $65 million at its meeting on Thursday. But Mr. Gargano also wants New York City to contribute $15 million, a suggestion its Economic Development Corporation has not rushed to embrace. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's administration, in turn, wants Gov. George E. Pataki to put up some cash as well.
Michael Carey, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, declined to be interviewed.
Real estate executives competing for both the PepsiCo site and the commercial parcel have complained that the bickering among government officials has delayed the selection of developers for months. Sometimes the acrimony can be petty. The Oct. 17 groundbreaking ceremony for the Avalon Bay project, for instance, was suddenly postponed until Dec. 14 when the mayor's office said Mr. Giuliani could not attend, although the date had been picked to accommodate his schedule. That led one state official to grouse privately that the city "was trying to use this situation to control the project."
A real estate executive who requested anonymity because of involvement with negotiations said: "The fact that the Queens West Development Corporation is made up of these entities that don't work well together has made life very difficult. It's enormously expensive for the developers when this thing drags on and on."
Mr. Gargano must also engage in delicate negotiations for funds from the Port Authority, where New York and New Jersey are frequently at odds over the equitable distribution of the bistate agency's resources. Fortunately, say those advocating New York's interests, New Jersey wants an additional $24 million to rebuild some crumbling piers at a Hoboken development, although the amount is far less than what New York needs for Queens West.
There are critics who say that the plan to transform Queens West into a major commercial and residential hub is overly ambitious. City Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey of Queens and some real estate brokers have doubts that major corporations will move their offices to Queens West, given the lack of public transportation, relative to competing sites like Jersey City or Long Island City, which is adjacent to Hunters Point. And the local community board complained that the proposed towers were too tall and could force out the small manufacturers and the working class residents in the surrounding Hunters Point neighborhood by raising real estate prices.
Still, Mr. Gargano is optimistic. "Right now, the chemistry seems to be right between the city, the state and the Port Authority," he said. "If we get the additional funding, we can not only catch up after 15 years, we can move forward very quickly."
According to real estate executives and government officials, Rockrose Development Corporation, a major residential builder in Manhattan, is the front-runner to develop the PepsiCo site. PepsiCo, however, is leaving nothing to chance; it has continued to negotiate with Time Equities, and with Related Companies, over the land, which would sell for about $45 million.
As for the 2.3 million-square-foot commercial development, the executives said LCOR, a national real estate company, has an edge over Triangle Equities, a Queens developer, in the quest to build three office buildings, a hotel and retail space. Both developers believe the office space will compete with buildings in Jersey City, which has become a haven for New York companies seeking relief from skyrocketing rents in Manhattan.
LCOR, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Rockefeller University and other medical institutions just across the East River in Manhattan have also talked about creating a biotechnology center at Queens West. One proposal being discussed is for a $100 million, 400,000-square-foot center, linking the academic institutions with private corporations through a research park and low-cost space for start-up companies.
"New York is a center for medical research, but it is woefully behind Boston, San Francisco, Washington and San Diego," said Dr. Harold Varmis, chief executive of Sloan-Kettering. "It's not just the high rents in New York. There's never been an orchestrated effort by both government and the medical institutions."
South of the commercial project, there are no immediate plans for five residential sites next to Newtown Creek. NYC 2012, a private group leading an effort to play host to the 2012 Olympic Summer Games, has proposed an Olympic Village there for athletes and coaches. After the Olympics, the buildings would be converted to housing.
But Claire Shulman, the borough president of Queens and a longtime supporter of Queens West, is adamantly opposed to an Olympic Village. "That's prime property," she said. "I'm not going to hold it up for a twinkle in someone's eye for 2012. If they put it in their application, I'll denounce it."
Despite the recent flurry of activity, few people are predicting that Queens West will be completed quickly. Much of the interest is driven by escalating residential and commercial rents in Manhattan. But no residential developer wants to build more than one tower at a time for fear of getting caught in a recession.
The project's origins date to the early 1980's, when the Port Authority moved to develop crumbling industrial waterfronts at both Hunters Point, a mile-long stretch north of Newtown Creek, and in Hoboken. The authority authorized $125 million for each project.
But it was not until 1994 that New York Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mayor Giuliani formally inaugurated what has become known as Queens West, a $2.3 billion project with 19 residential buildings and over 6,400 apartments, more than 2.25 million square feet of commercial space and 20 acres of parkland. It started with a 2.5-acre park, which preserved the tall black gantries that once transferred freight cars from river barges onto the tracks of the Long Island Rail Road.
Construction of the first residential tower was to begin in early 1995. But the heavily subsidized apartment house, Citylights, did not open until 1997. Two years later, Avalon Bay was selected to develop three other parcels, but work did not begin until last month. The Port Authority has already invested $125 million in Queens West, while the city has contributed $30 million; an estimated $80 million is needed to finish preparing the land. In the meantime, developers have come and gone.
"At the time we moved in, it looked sort of sparse," said Edward Sadowsky, a former city councilman who is president of the Citylights cooperative board, "but I have no doubt that it will all come together."
Others are not so sure, at least when it comes to commercial development. Councilman McCaffrey and Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate, said New York City should concentrate on developing a center for relatively inexpensive office space farther east, near the Citicorp tower, Queens Plaza and Jackson Avenue, where there is more public transportation linking the area to Manhattan. (Advocates of Queens West note that the Vernon Boulevard-Jackson Avenue subway station on the No. 7 subway line is a few blocks away and only one stop from Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan.)
As for the residential buildings, Mr. McCaffrey said he was afraid an economic slowdown would delay construction until the next upswing. He also expressed concern that if Queens West were successful, it would have a detrimental effect on the surrounding neighborhood, which is lined with three- and four-story walk-ups and custom furniture manufacturers' shops, and is home to such businesses as the Paragon Paints factory and Empire City Iron Works.
"After more than 10 years, we have one building at Queens West," Mr. McCaffrey said. "Significant handicaps regarding transportation have never been addressed. I'm afraid it's going to continue to languish."
But Ms. Shulman, who has been involved in the project since 1984, said Queens West was finally ready to take several strides forward. At the same time, she said, "The city should do a little more to attract companies to Hunters Point and Long Island City, rather than letting them go to Jersey City.
"We've been nurturing this for a very long time," she said. "The time for it is now. There's no room left for development in Manhattan. It's an absolutely great site and it's got the most beautiful view of Manhattan."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a development project called Queens West, on the East River, misspelled the surname of the chief executive of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, who has proposed a biotechnology center for the site. He is Dr. Harold Varmus, not Varmis.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pepsi-Cola's logo looms over Queens West, a run-down industrial waterfront that some officials hope to reinvent as a blend of apartments, offices and hotels. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); The Manhattan skyline is the backdrop of the Queens West site in Hunters Point, where one residential tower now stands. Other developments are planned, but money is needed for roads, sewers and utilities. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); PEPSICO INC (55%); PORT AUTHORITY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: QUEENS WEST (NYC REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CITIES (74%); RELOCATIONS (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; GARGANO, CHARLES A RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000



681 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 15; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: $25 AND UNDER;
Where Patlican, Ezme and Etli Bamya Are Comfort Food

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov 

 BODY:
CIGAR bars, tofu ice cream stands and other fad restaurants have come and gone in the 13 years since Uskudar opened on the Upper East Side. Thirteen years can be an eternity in the restaurant business, especially when the economic downs and ups have buffeted places bigger and more imposing than Uskudar, a sliver of a Turkish restaurant that today is the very model of a successful neighborhood institution.
On any given night, the inviting dining room, which seats no more than 24, is crowded with families, couples and the occasional lone diner diverting himself from his book every few minutes to take another bite. A single waitress patrols the tables, effortlessly juggling demands while remembering a child's drink preferences even though a week has passed since his previous visit. 
 Uskudar, named for a neighborhood in Istanbul, has achieved its institutional status without the burgers, pastas and steaks that form the default menu of most local hangouts. When it opened, it was one of a very few Turkish restaurants in New York, and though that number has slowly grown, it still seems remarkable that a neighborhood has adopted a menu heavy in stews, eggplant and okra.
Not that Uskudar's menu is unfamiliar to New Yorkers. The selection of appetizers ($4.95 each) includes Middle Eastern standards like lemony hummus and tarama, the airy whipped spread of fish roe, lemon juice and olive oil. Two other spreads are even better: patlican, smoky eggplant mashed with garlic, sesame paste and herbs, is smooth and delicious, while ezme, a blend of tomatoes, onions, parsley and walnuts, is bright and lightly spicy. I also like the imam bayildi, tender baby eggplant under a hill of onions that have been cooked down to a soft, sweet mass and seasoned with pine nuts, green peppers and parsley.
Often at Turkish restaurants I so enjoy scooping up the cold appetizers with warm pita bread that I have little incentive to try the main courses, which more often than not don't go beyond simple kebabs. Uskudar's kebabs are uncommonly juicy, particularly the shish kebab ($13.95), with tender cubes of marinated lamb, and the yogurt kebab ($13.95), lamb served atop toasted pita bread in a creamy yogurt and tomato sauce. Earthy grilled quail ($15.95) is a frequent special.
But what I like best are the stews. There's etli bamya ($12.95), lamb with baby okra cooked just enough to show off the vegetable's mellow flavor. Hunkar begendi ($13.95), another hearty lamb stew, is made with tomatoes and herbs and served over pureed eggplant, an enticing combination. I was less happy with moussaka ($12.95), chunks of eggplant and finely ground lamb; the dish had little unity or flavor. Chicken breast sauteed in garlic and lemon ($12.95) owes more to other parts of the Mediterranean than Turkey but is well made and satisfying.
Beverages include Turkish beer and some serviceable Turkish reds. Another possibility is sour cherry juice ($5), which is sweeter than it sounds and resembles cranberry juice.
Uskudar makes its own desserts ($3.95 each), and though they are familiar, they are excellent, especially kadayif, shredded wheat crowned with ground walnuts and drenched in honey, and kayisi, apricots stuffed with almonds and whipped cream. There is no apple pie, and no chocolate, and apparently that's just the way the neighborhood likes it.
 
Uskudar
 
1405 Second Avenue near 73rd Street, Upper East Side, (212) 988-2641.
 
BEST DISHES: Hummus, fish roe spread, eggplant salad, spicy tomato spread, baby eggplant with onions, pine nuts and green pepper, shish kebab, yogurt kebab, grilled quail, lamb stew with okra, lamb stew over pureed eggplant, chicken with garlic, shredded wheat with walnuts and honey, apricots stuffed with almonds and whipped cream.
 
PRICE RANGE: Appetizers, $4.95 to $6.95; main courses, $12.95 to $15.95.
 
CREDIT CARDS: All major cards.
 
HOURS: Daily 1 to 11 p.m.
 
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS: Step at entrance; aisle and restrooms are very narrow. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); TURKEY (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (72%); 

COMPANY: USKUDAR (MANHATTAN RESTAURANT) TURKISH RESTAURANTS (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: USKUDAR (MANHATTAN RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TURKEY (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (72%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (72%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (92%); ICE CREAM (89%); DRINKING PLACES (79%); FAMILY (77%); 

PERSON: ASIMOV, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



682 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: When Housing Is Tight

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Theater Club Has Plans for Broadway House" (Arts pages, Nov. 22) noted the concern of a Clinton Special District Coalition representative that the apartments planned adjacent to the Biltmore Theater would command "top rents" and thus "put further pressure on prices" in that neighborhood. 
This is yet another example of the muddled thinking that has contributed to the dearth of new housing construction in this city.
The only practical way to moderate prices in New York's tight housing market is to increase the supply of units to meet the burgeoning demand. This is Economics 101; each new unit helps relieve some degree of market pressure on all other units in the city, including in the theater district.
 
EDWARD S. HOCHMAN
Chairman, New York City Rent
Guidelines Board
New York, Nov. 24, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); RENT CONTROL (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: HOCHMAN, EDWARD S HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



683 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: ARTS IN AMERICA;
A Desire to Dazzle That Didn't Know When to Stop

BYLINE: By Stephen Kinzer 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 28

 BODY:
An exhibition of sumptuous jewelry, gold and silver bowls, lavishly engraved icon covers and diamond-encrusted images of saints, now on display at the Field Museum here, is a testament to the skill of Russian decorative artists over the last 10 centuries. But on closer view, the show is more than that. It traces the rise and fall of a great empire and has as much to say about history as art.
The show contains 120 objects from the Moscow Kremlin Armory Palace, the repository for a huge collection of artistic treasures, souvenirs, ambassadors' gifts and elaborate trinkets accumulated by the czars, their families and courtiers. 
 The show's title, "Kremlin Gold: 1,000 Years of Russian Gems and Jewels," is somewhat misleading. There is still debate about the origins of the confederation called Russia or Rus. Many scholars place its historic heart in Kiev. Moscow is not even mentioned in Russian chronicles until 1147, when a local prince began fortifying what was then a small town with earthen bulwarks that would become part of the original Kremlin.
Moscow began its political and economic ascendancy in the 14th century, and in the 1470's the Cathedral of the Assumption, with its white limestone walls and five golden domes, was built in the center of the Kremlin complex. It symbolized the marriage of temporal and spiritual authority that was at the heart of czarist rule.
Artifacts in the Chicago show, which opened at the Houston Museum of Natural Science and will remain in Chicago, its last stop, through March 30, are displayed in roughly chronological order. The first two are magnificent gold ornaments from the region along the northern Black Sea coast. One is a flexible chain bracelet whose clasp depicts two serpents' heads. The other is a decorative collar that weighs more than two pounds. Its centerpiece is a circular medallion with geometric designs in colored glass.
Both come from a spectacular trove that was uncovered by chance in 1927 beneath a field near the Black Sea. Historians believe they were made for leaders of Hun tribes that were expanding toward the Ural Mountains in the fourth century.
Many of the next artifacts in the show are religious, reflecting the spread of Orthodox Christianity that followed the arrival of the first Christian missionaries in Russia during the ninth century. These artifacts became more elaborate and richer as time passed.
A golden reliquary shrine from the 11th century is about six inches high. Its doors open to reveal a small chamber in which a relic was to be placed. Many Russian objects from this period bear unmistakable Byzantine influence, and this one includes among its engraved figures those of Emperor Constantine and his wife.
Although the reliquary shrine is a rich treasure that was obviously made with reverential care, it is impressive without being gaudy. The same is true for two silver signet rings bearing eagle motifs and a restrained but elegant silver bracelet, all made between the 11th and 13th centuries, as well as for a small wooden icon from Novgorod, Moscow's rival city in the 15th century, when this object was carved. All convey a power and dignity that come from sheer beauty rather than ornamentation.
As Russian lands began to consolidate, their riches gave the czars great power. These riches are reflected in two large dippers from the late 15th and early 16th centuries, each shaped from a single piece of gold. One belonged to Czar Boris Godunov and the other, which weighs more than four pounds, was presented to Czar Mikhail Feodorovich Romanov, founder of the ill-fated dynasty, by his mother.
The first dipper is smaller, supremely tasteful and adorned only by engraving. The second is inlaid with ruby, sapphire, emerald and pearl. With the wisdom of hindsight, visitors to the show can see in it the beginning of the Romanovs' ever-growing passion not only for wealth but also for its display.
That passion becomes clearer as the show proceeds. A crown made for Czar Ivan Alexeivich in 1682 contains several hundred diamonds above a sable trim. No fewer than 485 diamonds, some more than five carats in size, surround a portrait of Jesus on a ceremonial pendant, and, on the reverse, more than 100 diamonds and 135 rubies adorn an image of Our Lady of Vladimir.
This taste for ostentation reached positively baroque dimensions in later years. Objects in the show from the 19th and early 20th centuries include large platinum and gold pendants and brooches dripping with diamonds, emeralds and sapphires.
Two of Carl Faberge's famous eggs are also in the show. One is engraved with a map of the trans-Siberian railway route, and inside there is a tiny golden model of the first train to ply the route, complete with quartz windows, ruby lanterns and diamond headlights.
The other egg, carved from a clear piece of flawless quartz mined in the Urals, contains a model of the imperial yacht Standart, which was 160 feet long and had quarters for 300 servants and crew members.
Nothing in this show depicts the wretched misery in which most Russians were living during this period. Still, it is hard to see these artifacts without imagining the chasm that separated the peasant masses from the increasingly callous and self-absorbed monarchy. This portion of the show makes it easy to understand the fiery desire of revolutionaries to rise up and destroy the elite.
Communist leaders who toppled the Romanovs in 1917 had no interest in preserving imperial traditions. There is a long gap in the show that extends from the last czarist items, among them a gold-and-pearl notebook cover and a candy dish made from silver and crystal, to the first post-Communist ones.
If the first part of the show depicts the noble beginnings of the Russian empire and the middle section its decline into blind narcissism, the final few objects show today's Russia in its search for direction.
Several of these last items are attempts to recapture imperial styles, among them diamond jewelry and a contemporary version of a Faberge egg crafted of gold and silver in 1993. Some might be categorized as kitsch. They reflect the search for stability in a disoriented country whose people have suffered incalculable hardships over the centuries but whose deeply rooted traditions, stirringly reflected in their earlier art treasures, give them hope for a future not just grand but also just.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Faberge egg (1909) with model of imperial yacht, at Field Museum.; Diamond crown of the czar, circa 1680, part of "Kremlin Gold." (Photographs from the State Museum, Moscow Kremlin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (86%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

COMPANY: FIELD MUSEUM (CHICAGO); MOSCOW KREMLIN ARMORY PALACE

ORGANIZATION: FIELD MUSEUM (CHICAGO); MOSCOW KREMLIN ARMORY PALACE

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (86%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: JEWELS AND JEWELRY EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); HISTORY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); VISUAL ARTS (72%); MOUNTAINS (50%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



684 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Donations May Be Sought To Send U.S. Arts Abroad

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28

 BODY:
The United States government now spends less than a quarter of what it spent in 1993 to spread American culture abroad. Gone are government-sponsored performances by symphony orchestras and by giant opera companies that once entranced audiences abroad.
"People think that we are movies, hamburgers and other cliches," Evelyn S. Lieberman, a State Department official, said recently, lamenting the decline and speaking in anticipation of a conference today at the White House on culture and diplomacy. 
 Ms. Lieberman, who is the under secretary of state for public diplomacy and public affairs, said she hoped the White House conference would give impetus to the establishment of an endowment in the State Department made up of private donations to make up for the money that Congress has declined to approve.
Bills to establish such an endowment were introduced in Congress this year by Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware. The Leach and Biden bills were introduced too late in the Congressional year for any votes or hearings.
President Clinton said at the conference that he supported the Leach-Biden approach to an endowment.
Presenting American arts through embassies, he said, "will become more and more important."
Mr. Clinton, who presided over a panel discussion in the East Room, cited examples of the nation's culture serving positive ends, from the Glenn Miller Orchestra and others sustaining Allied morale during World War II, to a poster in Poland that depicted his favorite movie, "High Noon," in which Gary Cooper's sheriff's badge had been supplanted by a Solidarity pin, to the use of Superman comic books to teach Bosnian children to avoid land mines.
In response to Mr. Clinton's observation that American popular culture was known throughout the world, another panelist, Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright who was the Nobel laureate in literature in 1986, suggested that the United States was itself too insular.
"Yes," Mr. Clinton replied. "It's a two-way street."
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, seated next to Mr. Clinton, said that "our cultural diplomacy programs are central" to American foreign policy and she called for financing them "more generously."
Hillary Rodham Clinton made a brief appearance at the session and said that "the arts foster a civil society" even when "the dialogue of diplomacy is strained."
As Mrs. Clinton turned to leave the room, Mr. Clinton explained why she was not staying. "Hillary got a culturally excused absence," he said. "She's going to sign copies of her new book."
If a measure to set up a cultural endowment that Mr. Clinton favors is ever approved, it will come after Ms. Lieberman, a Clinton appointee, is gone.
Asked how the proposal for an endowment could get past the opposition of lawmakers like Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who has led the opposition to the existing national endowments for the arts and humanities, Ms. Lieberman smiled and said, "He doesn't have to pay for it."
As sketched out by Ms. Lieberman and her senior adviser, Bill Barrett, the proposed endowment would receive tax-deductible donations from individuals and corporations and use the money to send American arts groups abroad.
"Everything that we do is a reflection of our vast, diverse culture -- quilts, dancers, jazz, all of our arts traditions," Ms. Lieberman said. "We have unbelievable things to say that are not just violence in the movies."
The endowment, Ms. Lieberman said, would be independent of the government and would make the decisions on what or who to send.
Rick Ruth, Ms. Lieberman's chief of staff, said: "First there was a slow and then a precipitous decline in money for cultural and artistic programming. The thing that is often lost in these discussions is that we conduct all of these programs for the good of the U.S. government."
Statistics provided by Ms. Lieberman's office show that in constant dollars education and cultural spending by the United States abroad has declined by 72 percent since 1990, to $1.8 million today from the equivalent of $6.4 million in 1990. The high-water mark of such spending abroad was the $8.05 million spent in 1993.
"Among the things that an ambassador can get out of cultural programming are access to groups not easy to reach by other means, people who don't want to engage in a political discussion with the United States," Mr. Ruth said. "But they will turn out to a cultural performance -- a single piano player, a jazz quartet or a choral performance of 'Porgy and Bess,' which was done recently in Cairo.
"There was a time when the United States would spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to send, for example, the New York Philharmonic or the Martha Graham Dance Company. Foreign governments really turned out for these things and looked on them with great favor, and it spoke to our values."
Mr. Ruth said the State Department still had limited funds to send performers abroad, but added, "A jazz quartet would be about the largest we could do."
One large performing arts group, Dance Theater of Harlem, performed in Beijing and Shanghai this month, but Mr. Ruth said that was largely because the dance company had raised most of the estimated $500,000 for the tour from its own benefactors, with the State Department providing only $80,000.
Ms. Lieberman said the Chinese government had asked why the United States was sending a black troupe.
"Because they are terrific dancers and represent the diversity of America," Ms. Lieberman said she answered.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Less Support For Culture Abroad"
Spending by the federal government on educational and cultural affairs overseas.
 
Graph shows millions of dollars spent on educational and cultural affairs from 1990 through 2000.
 
For fiscal years shown; figures are adjusted for inflation in 2000 dollars
(Source: Department of State)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; PHILANTHROPY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); OPERA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); CHARITIES (75%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); LANDMINES (69%); WRITERS (68%); WORLD WAR II (64%); NOBEL PRIZES (62%); 

PERSON: MOLOTSKY, IRVIN BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



685 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Downey's Brightening Prospects Turn Cloudy Again

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Nov. 28

 BODY:
Publicly and privately, a surprisingly large number of actors, directors, studio and television executives and talent agents have battled and are still battling drug and alcohol addiction. But few celebrities have so publicly suffered the torments and humiliation of addiction as Robert Downey Jr.
One of Hollywood's more talented actors, Mr. Downey, 35, was arrested on Saturday night in a luxury villa at a Palm Springs, Calif., resort on charges of possessing cocaine and methamphetamine and committing a felony while out on bail. For Mr. Downey, whose life in the last few years has been a swirl of drug arrests and imprisonment, the latest episode, which may send him back to prison, was especially sad to his friends and associates. 
 His career had been rapidly reviving since his release from prison three and a half months ago. He had a recurring role on "Ally McBeal" as Calista Flockhart's love interest. He was set to star in a new movie, "America's Sweethearts," with Julia Roberts, Catherine Zeta-Jones and Billy Crystal. And he was scheduled to play "Hamlet" next year in a Los Angeles stage production directed by Mel Gibson. Now his future is at best uncertain.
"Those of us who love Robert -- and there are many of us -- are heartbroken," said Ed Limato, co-president and vice chairman of International Creative Management and Mr. Downey's agent.
Surprisingly, Mr. Downey was back at work today on the set of "Ally McBeal" in Manhattan Beach, south of Los Angeles, said his spokesman, Alan Nierob. "He was studying his lines yesterday to get back to work today," he said.
But Mr. Downey's return to work may be short lived.
Joe Roth, the former chairman of the Walt Disney Studios, who is directing "America's Sweethearts," and whose company, Revolution Studios, is making the film, which starts shooting on Jan. 11, said Mr. Downey's role in the film was now uncertain. "I don't know what's going to happen," he said. "It's heartbreaking that this happened. We're trying to sort it out now. We don't want to hurt him in any way, but we have to figure out what we'll do for our movie." Complicating the issue, Mr. Downey, who was released early Sunday on $15,000 bail, is to appear in court on Dec. 27, two weeks before filming.
Beyond this, lawyers and studio executives said, Mr. Downey's job prospects may be especially damaged by the possible reluctance of insurance companies to underwrite films featuring him because of his addiction and the possibility of future arrest.
Mr. Downey was seized on Saturday night in a $600-a-night room at Merv Griffin's Resort Hotel and Givenchy Spa in Palm Springs. Apparently he had spent Thanksgiving alone at the hotel. In a tape released by the Palm Springs police, an anonymous caller said, "Uh, yeah, I'd just like to let you know that in Room 311 of the Merv Griffin Resort there is a man that is doing an ounce of cocaine and a couple of guns and is pretty upset. Thank you." The police said the call came from a phone booth in nearby Cathedral City.
The police said that Mr. Downey gave them no trouble when they arrived about 9 p.m. "He was cooperative and, in our opinion, under the influence of a controlled substance," said Sgt. Patrick Williams, a spokesman for the Palm Springs police. "He was charged with that. He invited the officers into the suite, and we continued the seach. Throughout the entire incident he was compliant."
Drugs were found in the room, the police said, but no weapons. He was released on bail about 6 a.m. on Sunday. Mr. Downey is separated from his wife, Deborah Falconer, a former model and musician. They have a 7-year-old son, Indio.
Heidi Geier, general manager of the 100-suite hotel, said Mr. Downey had checked in on Wednesday night and was set to leave on Sunday. "I greeted him when he arrived," she said. "He was friendly, very nice. He kept very private. He behaved normally -- no ruckus, no parties, no noise."
Ms. Geier said she saw Mr. Downey as he was led away. "He seemed very sad, very, very subdued," she said. "I heard him say that he needed to get to work on Monday."
In the last decade Mr. Downey's soaring acting career, marked by films like "Less Than Zero," "Natural Born Killers," "Wonder Boys," "Two Girls and a Guy" and "One Night Stand," has also been marred by repeated arrests.
In June 1996 he was stopped by the police in Malibu for speeding on the Pacific Coast Highway. Searching his pickup truck, the police found heroin, cocaine and an unloaded .357 magnum. The next month, while awaiting trial, he was found unconscious in a bed of a neighbor's house, under the influence of drugs. He was arrested again. A judge ordered him into a rehabilitation program.
Mr. Downey was placed on probation. But after two violations and his acknowledgment that he was still an addict, he was sentenced to Corcoran State Prison for three years. After one year he was released on $5,000 bail after the California Second District Court of Appeals ruled that he had served enough time to fulfill his three-year sentence. Essentially he was given credit for serving in drug treatment.
After his release, Mr. Downey vowed to stop taking drugs. "I've created zero wreckage today," he told a magazine reporter last month. "And I intend to create no more."
Hollywood is, in many ways, a place that forgives almost anything but failure. Stars like Eddie Murphy and Hugh Grant have been picked up by the police after episodes with prostitutes, but their careers hardly faded. The actor Christian Slater spent 90 days in jail two years ago for a drug-related battery conviction, but his career was not destroyed. In some ways, by Hollywood terms, Mr. Downey may be unemployable not because of his addiction but because he faces jail time.
He has long acknowledged the power of his drug addiction. "It's like I've got a shotgun in my mouth, with my finger on the trigger, and I like the taste of the gun metal," he told a judge in 1999.
A psychiatrist, Manijeh Mikakhtar, who visited Mr. Downey during his prison stay, testified that the actor was suffering from bipolar disorder, or manic depression, and that his drug use was "self-medicating."
To his colleagues as well as executives, Mr. Downey not only has a reputation as a highly skilled actor -- he was nominated for an Academy Award for the 1992 film "Chaplin" -- but also as a gentle if fun-loving figure.
"There was more good will for Robert than you can imagine when he came out of prison," said a friend who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Everyone was rooting for him. He's a nice person."
Mr. Downey's has not made his whereabouts in Los Angeles known, but one friend said that since his release from state prison he had been working with a sponsor from Walden House, a nonprofit rehabilitation program in downtown Los Angeles. The friend said that Mr. Downey lived with someone from Walden House for a while. More recently Mr. Downey was living on his own but was constantly in touch with the treatment center, the friend said.
Mr. Downey has completed eight episodes of "Ally McBeal." The fourth was shown on Monday night. He recently agreed to appear in two more episodes. Chris Alexander, manager of media relations for 20th Century Fox Television, which produces "Ally McBeal," said that Mr. Downey was expected to complete the two final episodes shortly.
Some of Mr. Downey's friends said that his addiction is particularly virulent. "His addiction is chemical, it's biological," said James Toback, the writer and director and a friend who worked with the actor on three films. "I don't even think even he knows what's going to happen now."
What makes Mr. Downey's fall especially sad was that his addiction probably began as a child in Greenwich Village when he was given drugs by his father, Robert Downey Sr., the independent filmmaker. "I think that a lot of us did things and thought it would be hypocritical to not have our kids participate in marijuana and stuff like that," the elder Mr. Downey said in a documentary by his son about the 1992 Presidential campaign, "The Last Party." "So we thought it was cute to let them smoke it. And all that was an idiot move on our parts to share that with our children."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Downey Jr. and Calista Flockhart in the "Ally McBeal" for Dec. 11. (Fox)(pg. E1); Robert Downey Jr.'s booking photograph on Saturday in California. (Palm Springs Police Department)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ALLY MCBEAL (TV PROGRAM); AMERICA'S SWEETHEATS (MOVIE)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (83%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (54%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; TELEVISION; MOTION PICTURES; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; METHAMPHETAMINES; INSURANCE ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); COCAINE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TALENT AGENTS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); FILM (89%); METHAMPHETAMINE (78%); MOVIE CASTING (78%); INSURANCE (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (78%); RESORTS (77%); FELONIES (76%); BAIL (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BEGINNING OF FILMING (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: DOWNEY, ROBERT JR; WEINRAUB, BERNARD JULIA ROBERTS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



686 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Sins Of Emission

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Sam drives a huge S.U.V., Pierre drives a tiny Citroen. Both agree that for the sake of the environment they must reduce their combined fuel consumption. But who should bear the burden?
You might expect Pierre to demand that Sam do most of the adjusting. All that Sam has to do is switch to a smaller but still comfortable car; Pierre's car can't get much smaller. You certainly wouldn't expect to find Sam trying to wriggle out of the bargain, insisting that he be allowed to adopt a tree instead. 
 But that, more or less, is why efforts to curb global warming collapsed last week. There's plenty of blame to go around, but the essential problem was that Europeans got fed up with America's unwillingness to reduce its emission of greenhouse gases, even though it is the world's prime source of such gases.
Why is the United States such a big emitter? Energy use tends to be more or less proportional to gross domestic product, and we have the biggest economy. But that's not the whole story: We release about twice as much carbon dioxide per capita as other advanced countries, even though we don't have anywhere near twice their per capita G.D.P. The main reason for that disparity is that we have much lower taxes on fuel, especially gasoline. The image of the American filling up his living room on wheels with dollar-a-gallon gasoline while his European counterpart carefully spoons precious petrol into his mini is a caricature, but gets at an essential truth.
This comparison suggests that it should actually be much easier for the United States to reduce its energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions than it is for Europe. High taxes on fuel have already induced Europeans to do the easy conservation steps; in America, where gasoline is literally cheaper than (bottled) water, we haven't even tried.
Now it turns out that there are some complicating factors. Some estimates suggest that the cost of meeting international targets for emission reduction would actually be larger for the U.S. than for Europe, mainly because our economy grows faster, and faster growth increases the demand for energy. Still, one can easily understand European fury at America's refusal to make any serious effort to reduce the amount of carbon it burns.
But don't blame our negotiators, or for that matter the administration they work for. They had to respect domestic political realities. And what could the U.S. actually do to reduce its emission of greenhouse gases?
Any Econ 101 textbook can tell you the answer. If carbon dioxide is deemed to inflict damage on the environment, then the efficient way to resolve the problem is to provide market incentives to burn less carbon. The most straightforward policy would be an across-the-board carbon tax that . . .
I can't see any point in finishing that sentence. Never mind that even free-market economists favor "effluent taxes"; never mind that we're not talking about an overall tax increase, that any new tax on carbon could and should be offset by tax cuts elsewhere. In America's current political universe there are too many people who believe that the only good tax is a dead tax for any such proposal to be accepted. Such people aren't a majority, but they do control at least one house of Congress, and it just isn't going to happen.
In other words, the ultimate reason that the climate talks failed, that global warming will go unchecked, is the power of America's vitriolic anti-tax right.
Is there any way out of this trap? A decisive political defeat for the rabid right might open a path; but that didn't happen in this election.
The only alternative would be a Nixon-goes-to-China scenario. It's nice to fantasize that if George W. Bush ends up in the White House he might try to heal the wounds of his dubious triumph by, among other things, taking on his own party over environmental issues. But quite aside from his oil-industry connections and his dismal environmental record in Texas, Mr. Bush has said he is not convinced that the scientific evidence for global warming warrants policy action. And somehow I don't expect further evidence to change his mind.
Maybe future retirees won't have to move to Florida to find warm weather. It's looking like a long, hot century. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TAXATION; GREENHOUSE EFFECT EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); FUEL TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



687 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Broadcom to Acquire An Israeli Chip Maker

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif., Nov. 28

 BODY:
The Broadcom Corporation, the maker of computer chips for cable modems and digital set-top boxes, announced today that it was acquiring VisionTech Ltd., an Israeli maker of chips that allow television users to personalize their own video recording. The stock transaction, valued at about $770 million, has been approved by both boards and is expected to close in 60 days.
VisionTech's computer chips, when placed in set-top boxes, allow users to stop live television programs, as well as replay, rewind or fast-forward previously recorded programs all without using a videocassette recorder. Similar services already exist, including the popular TiVo, whose boxes allow television viewers to watch what they want whenever they want. 
 Broadcom's chief executive, Henry T. Nicholas III, said in an interview that today's move was another step in the company's goal to create technology for interactive communication in the home, including videoconferencing and game playing. The chips are already being produced, he added, and the technology will be widely available to consumers in the second half of 2001.
The acquisition, the company's 17th since January 1999, comes at an interesting time for Broadcom, which is based in Irvine. Its stock price has been battered lately, posting a 12.8 percent loss in the last two days alone to close today at $85.06, off 69 percent from a 52-week high of $274.75. On Monday, Broadcom's share price dropped after Clark Westmont, a Salomon Smith Barney analyst, said that Broadcom's share price would not hit $300 in the next year as earlier projected, but would rise to $200 instead because of the flattening demand for computer chips for set-top boxes.
Analysts and investors are concerned about oversupply in the semiconductor industry, and are particularly worried that customers like Cisco Systems and AT&T will buy less in the coming months. They are also focused on the slowing economy, which they fear will hurt earnings, particularly in the technology sector. Because of that, many technology stocks traded lower today.
In the interview today, Mr. Nicholas said "we maintain our confidence" in Broadcom's long-term strategy. One reason the stock price is down, he added, is because "there is a lack of understanding" by analysts about Broadcom's strategy and revenue mix. Broadcom, for competitive reasons, does not break out its revenue by division, he added. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (98%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: VISIONTECH LTD; BROADCOM CORP BROADCOM CORP (98%); VISIONTECH LTD (91%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: VISIONTECH LTD; BROADCOM CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MODEMS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); EXECUTIVES (54%); SECURITIES TRADING (50%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M HENRY T NICHOLAS III (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



688 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS;
Are the Three R's Crowding Out P.E.?

BYLINE: By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: UNIVERSITY CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
OVER the nine years that Pat Oligschlaeger has taught physical education at Flynn Park Elementary School in this St. Louis suburb, he has seen a marked decline in his pupils' fitness.
"You can tell just by looking at them" that they are out of shape, he said. "They are sitting in front of TV, not playing at sports." 
 His test records show that, for example, in 1993 half his fourth graders could do a pull-up, averaging about five each. This year only a third could do one.
Flynn Park pupils, about half of them black and a third low-income, now get only 100 minutes of weekly physical education, less than when Mr. Oligschlaeger first started here and less than the 30 minutes of daily exercise considered by many experts to be the minimum for good health. Yet even 100 minutes is twice what the State of Missouri requires of its elementary schools.
Nationally, only 29 percent of high school students had daily physical education last year, down from 42 percent in 1991. With the percentage of overweight children doubling in the last 30 years, diseases like adult-onset diabetes, cardiovascular disorders and osteoporosis are diagnosed more often in the young.
Is all this an unintended consequence of raising academic standards? Are schools squeezing in more math by eliminating gym?
Sandra Perlmutter, director of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, thinks so. This curricular shift, she says, makes it more likely that a health crisis will develop when today's inactive youths become adults. And it may be impeding the very learning that educators hope to promote when they schedule more academic time.
Children need exercise to learn. Scientists say it is plausible that by promoting blood flow to the brain, physical activity increases cognitive power. Many teachers believe that adolescents find it harder to concentrate when exercise breaks are not scheduled.
Two years ago, Virginia stopped requiring physical education in elementary and middle schools. In 1996, Massachusetts did so for high schools. Other states have also eliminated such mandates. They claim to be reflecting a national desire to test achievement ("outputs") rather than specify the minutes ("inputs") spent on each subject. But in practice, students and schools are held accountable for proficiency only in academics, not fitness.
This is not the only cause of young people's excess weight. As Mr. Oligschlaeger noted, more children now sit at home in front of computers and television. And they have more homework. Fewer participate in neighborhood sports, or just run around at play.
Diets, meanwhile, include more fatty fast foods and sugar-loaded soda. Adolescent boys now consume, on average, about 28 ounces of soft drinks daily, almost twice their consumption of 20 years ago. This all contributes to what the surgeon general calls "an obesity epidemic."
Dinners at fast-food outlets result in part from economic changes (perhaps including welfare reform) that put more mothers in the work force. If fried and fatty fast foods replace more wholesome meals at home, long-term health risks increase.
Schools themselves also promote poor diets, no matter what they teach in health classes. To raise revenue, schools now negotiate lucrative contracts for soft-drink and chips distributors to place vending machines on school grounds. The arrangement often finances extracurricular activities, but by harming children's health and cognition, it also handicaps learning.
Such trends hurt minority pupils the most. Black and Hispanic youths have the lowest rates of participation in physical activity, both inside and outside the school, contributing to a disparity in obesity: while 24 percent of white adolescents are obese, the rate is 31 percent for blacks and 30 percent for Hispanics.
This places minority children most at risk for health problems when they become adults, with higher death rates from inactivity. Daily exercise at school is even more important for those who live where outdoor play is unsafe and who are thus kept indoors watching television. Yet these are the very children whose academic achievement is lower and so are now more likely to take extra classes in basic skills, making it more difficult to take gym, even where it is offered as an elective. Requirements to attend after-school remedial classes also reduce opportunities for exercise.
Yes, we want more attention paid to academics. But if children now exercise less when school lets out, preparing adults healthy enough to use academic skills will require more time in gym classes, not less.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FLYNN PARK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PHYSICAL EDUCATION (94%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); HOMEWORK (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); OBESITY (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); DIABETES (71%); EPIDEMICS (71%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); FAST FOOD (60%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); OSTEOPOROSIS (53%); BRAIN (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD; PERLMUTTER, SANDRA PAT OLIGSCHLAEGER (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



689 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
New Office Building in Newark Near Completion

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
A three-story customer service center that real estate executives say is the first new office property to be built in Newark in more than a decade is nearing completion on the fringe of the city's central business district.
The building is being built for MBNA America Bank, one of the nation's largest issuers of credit cards, as a telephone calling center. 
 Although the city does not lack for available office space, David Spartin, vice chairman of MBNA America, said corporate practice and the special needs of a call center were behind the decision to build.
"We looked around, but as a company we like to own our office space," he said. "Given the size of the project and the technology we needed to install, we thought the best option was to acquire the site and build on it."
The site, at the corner of University and Market Streets not far from the Essex County court complex, was bought from the city of Newark for $1.3 million. Construction started last July and the building is expected to open in January. Mr. Spartin said 300 people would be hired initially for the center, with the number of employees possibly rising to 500. The center will be used to help activate credit cards, for telemarketing of the company's financial products and to assist customers with problems.
MBNA America, which is based in Wilmington, Del., is a subsidiary of MBNA Corporation, one of the nation's largest bank holding companies, with $100 billion in assets.
Mr. Spartin said the bank chose Newark because of its established transportation links and well-developed infrastructure and what he described as the environment of the city, which is generally acknowledged to have improved in recent years. Long-neglected buildings along the city's main commercial avenue, Broad Street, have recently been acquired and remodeled by new investors, and the new performing arts center and a minor league baseball stadium have lured suburban dwellers downtown.
The value of the city's communications infrastructure -- high-volume, high-speed fiber-optic cable lines have been installed under several main streets -- has been demonstrated by the conversion of the old Bamberger's department store at Halsey and Market Streets into a "telecommunications hotel," holding the computers and other electronic equipment that underpin the Internet. Several other long-closed retail buildings, including the Hahne's store on Broad Street, have recently attracted redevelopment proposals.
Another factor in choosing the location, Mr. Spartin said, was the company's relationship with St. Benedict's Preparatory School, which is nearby. He said the company has had a career development program with the school since 1993 and has provided summer employment for 200 students in that time.
Sharpe James, the mayor of Newark, said the MBNA project had been built without any city tax breaks or other financial incentives. But he said the city helped the company meet its deadline by making the University Street site, formerly a city-owned parking lot, available to the bank after a previously planned site became unavailable.
"They said they absolutely had to have the building closed in by January 2001," he said. "When we could not move the tenant out of the first site, I told MBNA that we had a second that could be made available and they took it."
He added that the decision to put fiber-optic telecommunications lines in the city's streets during a sewer renovation project a decade ago was paying off in persuading companies like MBNA to move to Newark.
Real estate executives said the incentive-free deal was an indication of the growing appetite for commercial property in the city. "The New York and Jersey City office markets are getting hot, and Newark is the next stop on public transportation," said Sean P. Brady, of Cushman & Wakefield of New Jersey.
Roger Steinhardt, director of leasing for Kushner Companies, a real estate services company in Florham Park, N.J., said the new owners were converting the buildings, which were often fitted out with warrens of small offices, to more open spaces for what he described as "modern tenants." Small tenants on upper floors of buildings like 60 Park Place, which Kushner operates for its partner, Blackacre Capital Management, are being moved to lower floors, so the more desirable higher floors can be rented to a single larger tenant.
He said rehabilitation projects made economic sense but added that rents in Newark, which range from $20 a square foot annually to $30 a square foot in premium locations, did not yet justify new construction of Class A property.
Mayor James said MBNA had met all its commitments to the city and recently said it would be accepting applications for employment from local residents. He said he was so happy with the company "that I have started paying my credit card bills on time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The MBNA America customer service center in Newark is expected to hire 300 workers at first, with the number possibly rising to 500. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MBNA AMERICA BANK BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); FIA CARD SERVICES NA (58%); NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MBNA AMERICA BANK NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CALL CENTERS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TELEMARKETING (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); SEASONAL WORKERS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); SUBURBS (63%); FIBER OPTICS (61%); BASEBALL (61%); RETAILERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN DAVID SPARTIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



690 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Durable Goods Orders Shrank In October

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28

 BODY:
Orders to United States factories for big-ticket manufactured goods fell 5.5 percent in October as demand for metals including steel dropped the most in nearly two years, the Commerce Department reported today.
The report said that last month's decline in orders for durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, was the first since a 13.2 percent decrease in July. Orders rose 2.4 percent in September. 
 The $12.1 billion decrease sent total durable goods orders down to $209 billion for the month and represented the latest evidence that economic activity was slowing in reaction to a series of interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve. The central bank has been pushing rates higher since July 1999 to dampen growth and pre-empt inflation.
In a separate report, the Conference Board said today that consumer confidence fell in November to its lowest level in more than a year. The group's index, based on a survey of 5,000 American households, dropped to 133.5 from 135.8 the month before. The record was 144.7 in May.
Consumers account for two-thirds of economic activity. Consumer confidence is measured from a base of 100 in 1985.
The 5.5 percent drop in durable goods orders last month was significantly greater than the 2.1 percent decline private economists had expected. It was led by a sharp 15.8 percent drop in orders for transportation equipment -- down $8.4 billion, to $44.9 billion -- reflecting less demand for aircraft and parts.
Demand for metals including steel fell 3.2 percent, to $15.3 billion, the biggest decrease since December 1998. Steel companies say the Clinton administration has not done enough to offset bankruptcies and layoffs in an industry hurt by a flood of lower-cost imported steel.
Orders for electronic equipment fell 9.9 percent, to $39.1 billion, in October, principally reflecting a drop in demand for electronic components.
Slightly offsetting the overall weakness was a 1.8 percent rise in demand for industrial machinery, to $44.2 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Durable Goods Orders"
Chart shows manufacturers' total new orders fo durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted since May of 1999.
(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); DURABLE GOODS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



691 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Soft Economic Data Send Nasdaq to a 52-Week Low

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Technology stocks plunged yesterday, as investors used additional signs of a softening economy and confirmation from Vice President Al Gore that he intends to continue his fight for the presidency as excuses to sell shares.
Stocks like Microsoft, Qualcomm and Ciena, which still have high price-to-earnings multiples despite big drops this year, led the Nasdaq composite index lower. The index, which at one point during the day was in positive territory, fell 145.51 points, or 5.05 percent, to 2,734.98, a 52-week closing low and its lowest level since Oct. 19, 1999. 
 It was the seventh decline for the Nasdaq index in the last eight sessions.
Traders said that much of the decline came during the afternoon, after Mr. Gore reiterated his intention to continue his legal battle for votes in Florida that might win him the presidency over Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
Nick Angiletta, head of Nasdaq trading at Salomon Smith Barney, said that "when the news broke that Mr. Gore was going to speak, many anticipated an ending" to the postelection contest. "When that didn't happen," he continued, "the market fell out of bed."
"Investors are not finding a catalyst to step back into the market," Mr. Angiletta said. "And right now they are looking for companies with earnings, good solid management and positive growth forecasts."
Reports that consumer confidence softened and that durable goods orders fell 5.5 percent in October provided additional sources of worry, traders and analysts said. The decline in durable goods orders was led by a 15.8 percent drop in orders for transportation equipment, which fell $8.4 billion, to $44.9 billion. Orders for electronic equipment fell 9.9 percent, mainly reflecting reduced demand for electronic components.
"The economy is slowing more than we estimated," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, "and that is raising concerns about earnings growth and revenue growth. We have oversold stocks with a handful of fears -- particularly technology and telecom issues."
Other major market averages also registered declines. But they were not nearly as severe as the drop in the Nasdaq composite. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 38.49 points, or 0.36 percent, to 10,507.58. Gains by Johnson & Johnson, American Express and Merck helped offset most of the decline in Microsoft and other Dow components like J. P. Morgan and Eastman Kodak.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.88 points, or slightly less than 1 percent, to 1,336.09. Technology issues like Sun Microsystems, EMC and America Online led the index lower.
Financial stocks did well on the premise that a softening economy would prompt the Federal Reserve to ease monetary policy sooner rather than later. American Express gained $2.13, to $55.13. Citigroup, another Dow component, rose 25 cents, to $47.75. Wells Fargo closed at $45.69, up $1.50. And the State Street Corporation gained $3.30, to $128.35.
Microsoft was the most actively traded issue yesterday, with more than 62 million shares changing hands. The giant software maker fell $3.69, to $67.
At more than 1.8 billion shares, trading volume on the Nasdaq market was heavy. More than a billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange.
Among big losers, Qualcomm fell $5.97, to $83.47. The stock, which sold at $200 early in January, is by some measures still trading at nearly 100 times earnings.
Ciena, once a market favorite, fell $13.44, to $84. The stock is still up more than 190 percent so far this year, though down from a 52-week high of $151. Even so, it is trading at 420 times earnings.
"A lot of this selling is very much emotional," said James Raphalian, head of Nasdaq trading at SG Cowen. "There is an expectation of a December rally, and I still think that will happen. But there is a lot of nervousness now."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Taking Shelter in Bonds
 By Reuters
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as further losses in technology stock prices, declining consumer confidence and weak durable goods orders increased the odds that the Federal Reserve might lower interest rates early next year.
Technology shares plunged 5.05 percent to a new low for the year, increasing the allure of lower-risk government debt and putting downward pressure on bond yields.
"We had weak durable goods, the consumer sentiment numbers looked bad, and stocks and the Nasdaq are trading horribly," said John Roberts, head of government trading at Barclays Capital.
 The 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to a price of 101 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.58 percent from 5.62 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 9/32, to 108 5/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.68 percent from 5.70 percent on Monday.
The results of yesterday's Treasury auction of one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures
 
Price: 94.227
High Rate: 5.71%
Coupon Yield: 6.05%
Low Rate: 5.67%
Median Rate: 5.69%
Total applied for: $24,187,036
Accepted: $10,004,536
Noncompetitive: $295,144
 
The one-year bills mature on Nov. 29, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Chart: "One Year Treasury Bill"
Chart shows average discounted rate at monthly auction since 1999.
(Source: Treasury Department)
 
Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"
Chart shows yields of selected Treasury securties. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.
(Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (62%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (64%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); QUALCOMM INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); AOL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); PUBLIC DEBT (61%); MONETARY POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



692 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: MarchFirst To Undergo A Revamping

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Nov. 28

 BODY:
With its stock price down 98.7 percent this year to just a little above $1, MarchFirst, the new-economy consulting company, is getting out of the business it was founded to do.
In an effort to keep the company afloat, Robert F. Bernard, MarchFirst's chairman and chief executive, today spelled out an ambitious reorganization for the company, which was formed last year by the merger of USWeb/CKS and Whittman-Hart. 
 "I screwed up," Mr. Bernard told a group of investors here at Credit Suisse First Boston's annual technology conference. "We had too much dependency on the dot-coms. We're biting the bullet right now. I'm out of that business by Jan. 1."
The plan to reorganize the company calls for MarchFirst to move away from servicing the highflying new-economy companies that had promised tremendous growth but now cannot pay their bills and instead focus on more traditional companies that are trying to build electronic-commerce operations.
Mr. Bernard said MarchFirst would sever its relationship with more than 1,000 clients to focus on 500 of its best customers. "It's ugly; I hand the code over and you hand over the check," he said of how he would have to end the firm's relationship with many dot-com companies. "We were wasting time and money chasing small deals," he added. He also attributed the company's problems to poor integration of the more than two dozen smaller acquisitions it had made.
He also alluded to the possibility that he might end up selling the company, telling analysts and investors that he was reviewing 14 possible opportunities for financial help, including "strategic partnerships." Executives close to the company said it had conducted preliminary talks with several possible buyers, though no deal is imminent.
MarchFirst also revised its forecast today, telling investors that it expects to lose 25 to 30 cents a share in the fourth quarter. It said it would also take a one-time charge of $25 million to $35 million in the fourth quarter to pay for the reorganization. The company was expected to report a profit of 7 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
"It's death by a thousand cuts," said Mark Wolfeberger, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. "The real question is whether they can pull this off."
Today's move comes two weeks after MarchFirst announced it would lay off 10 percent of its work force, or 1,000 employees.
Shares of MarchFirst fell 69 cents, to $1.06. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARCHFIRST (CO) MARCHFIRST INC (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARCHFIRST (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET NEW ECONOMY (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MERGERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS ROBERT F BERNARD (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



693 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Greater Role Seen for Corporations Aiding City Schools

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
If there is any doubt that Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy is serious about enlisting corporations as active partners in New York City's public schools, Fredda L. Plesser is eager to dispel it.
With a grateful nod toward the myriad nonprofit agencies that already have established programs linking corporate executives, their time and their money with city schools, Ms. Plesser said she believed that there was far, far more to be done. 
 Oh, and one other thing. "We don't say 'Adopt a school,' " explained Ms. Plesser, the Board of Education's chief executive of the newly created office for corporate partnerships. She added: "We're talking about a partnership, a two-way relationship, with full corporate and employee involvement. That's more of the goal here."
The Board of Education wants every one of its nearly 1,200 schools to be matched with a company that will donate employees' time to work with students, faculty and administrators in whatever types of programs fit both the company's skills and the school's needs.
In addition to mentoring students, those efforts by corporations, as envisioned by Ms. Plesser, will include internships or paid work experiences for students at the participating companies; help to improve physical facilities such as gymnasiums, libraries, auditoriums and classrooms; donations of resources like computers, laboratory equipment and books; establishment of health and physical education programs; and efforts to reach out to parents.
Money, too, is a part of the effort -- a big part. According to Ms. Plesser, Mr. Levy wants corporate donations to fund large programs to help teachers develop their instructional skills, teach management skills to principals and their assistants, and provide the means for school leaders to share ideas for handling school problems.
Tens of millions of dollars of private-sector donations will be sought to help pay for and manage Mr. Levy's ambitious teacher-training program, Ms. Plesser said.
The New York City Teaching Fellows program, a fast-track effort to attract teaching candidates from other professions and train them on the job, costs the Board of Education $15,000 to $20,000 for recruitment, training and ongoing support of each participant, she said. Mr. Levy has said he intends to hire up to 3,000 aspiring or unlicensed teachers into the program for the 2001-02 school year, an expansion that would cost more than $45 million for that year alone.
"When we talk about a partnership, we really mean it in the more direct sense of the word -- a full, intensive relationship between a school and a company," Ms. Plesser said. While the Board of Education certainly will not turn away any one-time donations of money or equipment or materials, she said, "that's not the kind of hot, active partnership we really want to encourage."
Partnerships between schools and corporations are not new. But in New York City and across the country, such partnerships have varied widely in their inventiveness and success.
In New York City, eight chancellors over the last two decades have spoken about or started new efforts to get corporations involved in the schools. Some companies have consistently participated for years. For example, Brooklyn Union Gas began donating gas ranges for use in home economics classes more than 30 years ago. Known today as KeySpan Energy, the company still participates in an array of activities, including letting students shadow its employees through a workday and participating in Junior Achievement programs, which provide students with practical economic and business experiences.
Nationally, adopt-a-school programs became popular in the early 1980's, after the 1981 establishment by the Chicago Board of Education of what might have been the first formal program in the the country. Adopt-a-school programs multiplied particularly rapidly after the publication in 1983 of "A Nation at Risk," the national study documenting the ills of public education.
Many of those efforts ultimately aim to team a corporation or local organization with a specific school, getting employees to donate their time as well as corporate resources to improve students' experiences. But often those programs, which in theory provide companies with more skilled employees and a better local economy, have been of more benefit to a corporation's public image than to students or their schools. Often, a particular company's involvement frequently lasted little longer than the tenure of the current chief executive or schools chancellor.
The establishment this fall of the office of corporate partnerships is in part an attempt to institutionalize what has been a sort of seat-of-the-pants effort.
"There's been no central mechanism for the schools to report exactly what partnerships they have," Ms. Plesser said.
She arrived two months ago from the Securities Industry Association, where as associate general counsel she oversaw a program to promote diversity on Wall Street -- itself a challenge of significant proportions. It was also where she got to know Mr. Levy, who worked for Citigroup as a senior executive for compliance. Since starting her new job, Ms. Plesser's office has documented more than 200 direct partnerships between private-sector organizations and individual schools or the Board of Education.
They range in scale from a Queens bagel store that provides refreshments for school parent-faculty meetings to companies like Chase Manhattan Bank, Prudential and Salomon Smith Barney, which provide computer equipment, mentoring programs and money for individual schools, districts and the system as a whole.
Still, that means that only one of every six New York City schools benefits from a corporate partnership. There is almost no way to quantify the dollar value of those efforts, because so much of what is given is individuals' time, and access to workplaces and ideas.
Nor do the estimates include the efforts of nonprofit organizations such as Pencil, Junior Achievement of New York, New York Cares, and the New York City Partnership, each of which has its own programs to support schools, their students and staff.
With little coordination among those agencies, there appears to be a lot of overlap, Ms. Plesser said. Many of the schools she identified as having corporate partnerships through the Board of Education also have programs with the nonprofit organizations, leading her to believe that a relative handful of schools enjoy the benefits. Not surprisingly, those that do tend to be located in Manhattan or to serve students that are relatively better off than the average New York City public school student.
Her office has assumed oversight of the former office of development, which manages the Fund for Public Schools, a sort of endowment and disbursement fund for private-sector donations to the school system, and of the New York City Mentoring Program, which administers programs involving 56 business partners in 50 city high schools.
The idea of a growing Board of Education bureaucracy overseeing their efforts has made the leaders of some nonprofit agencies a bit nervous, although they are hesitant to admit it publicly because they want Mr. Levy's support of their continuing efforts.
And despite any such misgivings, most nonprofits welcome Mr. Levy's interest. "It can only help to enhance the level of involvement of corporations in our schools," said Stefan Pryor, vice president for education at the New York City Partnership, an umbrella organization of 300 city business and civic organizations. "In the past, companies have found it difficult to navigate the labyrinthian system of the Board of Education."
Ruth Cohen, president of Pencil, which organizes the Principal for a Day program and has matched corporate partners with 300 city schools, said that the nonprofit agenices continue to have a role to play. Organizations like hers have more experience putting corporations together with schools than the central Board of Education does, she said.
"This is not easy," she said of linking corporations and schools. "It's not something that most businesses are set up for."
Ms. Plesser said she agreed that nonprofits would remain an important part of the process. "Those groups do wonderful, wonderful things," she said. "But I don't think they necessarily have the ambitious goals and hopes that the chancellor has for this office."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fredda L. Plesser, who is supervising the Board of Education's new corporate partnership program, has ambitious plans for businesses to help city schools. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CORPORATIONS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (74%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; PLESSOR, FREDDA L HAROLD O LEVY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



694 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Qantas Orders 12 of Planned 'Superjumbos'

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: MELBOURNE, Australia, Wednesday, Nov. 29

 BODY:
Airbus Industrie won its first orders from Qantas Airways Ltd. today, which included plans to buy 12 of Airbus's proposed A3XX "superjumbo" jetliners.
Qantas, Australia's largest airline, said it would spend a total of $4.6 billion on 31 new aircraft over the next 10 years. The orders will make Qantas a first customer if the new A3XX jets goes into production, and is a setback for Airbus' bigger rival, the Boeing Company, which had promoted its planned stretch version of the 747 jet and its 777 jetliners. 
 "It's a breakthrough," said Richard Aboulafia, director of aircraft consulting at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va. "This is Airbus' strongest endorsement" since it won an $8.6 billion order for as many as 25 A3XXs from Singapore Airlines Ltd.," he said.
Airbus has made big inroads in winning orders from big all-Boeing customers, including British Airways P.L.C., which bought its first Airbus jets in 1998. Qantas, 25 percent owned by British Airways, is also the only big Asia Pacific carrier that has not purchased Boeing's 777 jets.
Airbus is now just 6 orders short of the 50 it says it needs before it can proceed with development of the A3XX, which with some 555 seats will become the biggest commercial jet in operation. Qantas cited the planned jet's operational and economic advantages as reasons for its choice.
"Importantly, it will assist us to meet growth at slot-constrained airports on our key routes," said its chief executive-designate, Geoff Dixon, according to a press release.
Qantas also said it will buy seven Airbus A330-200 and six Airbus A330-300 jets. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: QAN (ASX) (95%); BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); C6L (SGX) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (98%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (95%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (95%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (88%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); ASIA (69%); 

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (78%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (58%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; QANTAS AIRWAYS AIRBUS SAS (98%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (95%); BOEING CO (85%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (84%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; QANTAS AIRWAYS

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (88%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); ASIA (69%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (78%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



695 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: $330 Million in Ford Grants Will Aid Foreign Students

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
In its largest grant ever, the Ford Foundation will announce today a 10-year $330 million fellowship program to support graduate education for hundreds of disadvantaged college graduates in 20 countries.
Ford's International Fellowship Program, which will pay for up to three years of graduate study anywhere in the world, will begin with about 100 students from Chile, Ghana, Nigeria, Peru, Russia, Senegal and Vietnam next year, and then gradually expand to about 350 fellows in 20 countries where the Ford Foundation has a presence. 
 "The goal is to help these countries develop a diverse group of people prepared to lead, people who wouldn't normally be at the table," said Susan Berresford, president of the foundation.
"In one country, that might be people from rural areas," Ms. Berresford said. "In others it might be women, or ethnic minorities, or people from families where no one has ever attended graduate school. It's a global program, but the selection will be completely local."
At a time when William H. Gates, Ted Turner and other entrepreneurs have been making headlines with bold ventures into big-ticket philanthropy, the fellowship program is Ford's response to years of rising stock values that have pushed its assets to $14.5 billion from $5 billion in the late 1980's and less than $10 billion three years ago.
The program is a substantial departure for the Ford Foundation, which has traditionally made much smaller grants. Last year it paid out about $700 million in more than 2,000 grants. Ford's largest previous grant was $51.8 million, split between 1998 and 1999, to a North Carolina community development organization, to help low-income families become home owners.
For decades, Ford was the nation's largest foundation, but it was edged out by the Lilly Endowment in 1997 and then by the $21 billion Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
With the new wealth created by the nation's long economic expansion, many entrepreneurs have turned to philanthropy, some with grants and gifts much larger than those of old-line foundations like Ford. In 1997, Ted Turner jolted the nation by donating $1 billion to the United Nations over 10 years. Just last month, the Gates Foundation announced a $210 million program to enable 225 students a year -- half from the United States -- to attend Cambridge University. And in June, the Gates Foundation started a $1 billion program of college scholarships for minority students.
By law, foundations must distribute at least 5 percent of their assets each year, and Ford, like most, has stayed close to that minimum. But with assets growing rapidly, foundations are under increasing pressure to distribute larger percentages..
"Foundations were established with the purpose of making grants and doing good, not investment banking," said Terry Odendahl, executive director of the National Network of Grantmakers in San Diego, which has urged foundations to increase their payouts.
The new International Fellowship Program will raise the Ford Foundation's payout to 7 percent of its assets, a change that Ms. Berresford called "a very nice secondary benefit," but one that may not continue.
Ford, like many of the old-line foundations, has moved toward larger grants slowly.
"For a long time, the assets were growing, but we were very cautious, because we all thought there would be a correction," Ms. Berresford said.
"But," she said, "the money kept growing and growing, so we began to think about what we'd like to do with larger grants. We thought about curing disease, but that's not who we are. We are in a global society, and we wanted to try to give back something to other countries that have not experienced the kind of economic growth we have had."
Graduate fellowships are a mainstay of philanthropy, an area in which there is consensus that an investment produces a social return, and an area in which the Ford Foundation has a considerable track record. One of the foundation's signature programs has long been its funding of minority fellows' doctoral studies. And in the 1960's and 70's, Ford had graduate-fellowship programs in several countries.
"All over the world, we run into leaders, like Kofi Annan, who were once Ford fellows," Ms. Berresford said, referring to the secretary general of the United Nations. "Part of the reason that this idea appealed to us all was that we have seen that investment in people, and how they went on to make such a difference in so many fields."
While academic performance will be a criterion for selection, committees in each country will also base their choices on leadership potential and commitment to community service and social justice.
Joan Dassin, director of the program, said, "A lot of the people we want to reach may not have had typical careers and may be older, particularly women who took time off to have a family."
"There's no single definition of educational disadvantage," Ms. Dassin said. "That is clearly the most challenging conceptual part of this program."
Besides paying for tuition, travel and living expenses for graduate studies, the fellowships will cover training in language, research and computer skills. To encourage the students to work in their own countries, the program will pay students $1,500 for research or projects in their home countries when they finish their fellowship.
The program will also include $50 million to increase the number of candidates in the pipeline in countries where few disadvantaged students have the undergraduate background to qualify for a fellowship.
"We don't know how it will come out," Ms. Berresford said, "but we hope to recognize people with the potential to be intellectual and practical leaders, people from groups whose ideas and talents and voices are often overlooked."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Berresford, the president of the Ford Foundation. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GHANA (93%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FORD FOUNDATION FORD FOUNDATION (97%); MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD FOUNDATION FORD FOUNDATION (97%); MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE; GHANA; NIGERIA; PERU; RUSSIA; SENEGAL; VIETNAM; GHANA (93%); NIGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (91%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ETHNICITY (73%); FAMILY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



696 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Plan for Use of Bioengineered Corn in Food Is Disputed

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28

 BODY:
Hoping to avoid further product recalls linked to a bioengineered corn, representatives of food, agriculture and biotechnology industries urged the Environmental Protection Agency today to approve the corn temporarily for human consumption. But critics said such a move would bail out the corn's developer and the food companies at consumers' expense.
"It is not E.P.A.'s obligation to clean up the mess," said Jane Rissler of the Union of Concerned Scientists. "Turning on a dime to assist industry would undermine confidence both here and abroad in the E.P.A. as a regulator." 
 The clash of opinions occurred at a public meeting of a scientific advisory panel to the E.P.A. Until now the agency has approved the corn, StarLink, for animal feed but not for human consumption because of concerns that a protein in the corn could cause allergies.
This fall, taco shells and other products were found to contain some of the corn, prompting nationwide recalls and causing the corn's developer, Aventis CropScience, to promise to buy up this year's StarLink crop and to stop licensing the seed.
But the company, with the backing of much of the food and grain industry, last month asked E.P.A. to approve the use of StarLink in food for four years, long enough for the crops from this year and last to work their way through the food supply.
While the issue at today's meeting was the scientific question of whether such a move would be a risk to the public, the urgency of the issue is more economic. Food companies and grain handlers worry that unless the agency acts, costs will rise because of the expense of testing grain shipments for the presence of StarLink and the potential for further recalls.
But critics say such an exemption could make it easier for Aventis to escape liability for any harm, including farmers' economic losses.
Larry Somerville, director for scientific affairs at Aventis CropScience, said today that irrespective of the E.P.A. decision it would "remain committed" to trying to divert the StarLink crop to animal feed.
Aventis, backed by much of the food industry, argues that new evidence shows that the protein at issue in the corn, Cry9C, which is inserted to kill a common pest, is highly unlikely to be an allergen. Even if it were, the company said, consumers are likely to eat such small amounts that no one would develop allergies or suffer allergic reactions.
Today, the Biotechnology Industry Organization offered new data showing that the protein broke down in laboratory tests designed to simulate food processing. Until now, StarLink has been found in food products by testing for the gene implanted into corn to produce the Cry9C protein. But it is the protein, not the gene, that is the potential allergen, and it has been unclear how much, if any, of the protein is in food products. The evidence presented today found the protein in the food products, but in extremely minute concentrations.
"You're starting out with a very low amount of protein in the corn to begin with and then it degrades considerably to the point where you can barely detect it," said Michael Phillips, executive vice president for food and agriculture at the biotechnology industry trade group. "A strong case can be made that this is no hazard."
But a key question for the advisory panel is how small is too small to cause allergic reactions. Dr. Hugh Sampson, an allergy expert from Mount Sinai New York University Medical Center on the advisory panel, challenged a speaker's assumptions that the level of exposure was too low to cause problems.
"I wasn't aware we knew what that threshold was for any protein," Dr. Sampson said.
By the end of the meeting, some of the medical experts on the panel seemed to agree that the probability of significant allergic reactions from the StarLink in food supply was low, but could not completely be discounted.
The Cry9C protein, which protects the corn plant from insects, is suspected of being an allergen because it is stable in stomach acids. Proteins that are not digested in the stomach have a higher likelihood of causing allergies, though there is no evidence that StarLink does cause allergies.
Karl C. Klontz, an epidemiologist at the Food and Drug Administration, said today that the F.D.A. had received 35 reports of adverse health effects from StarLink corn experienced by 44 consumers since mid-September, when it was first reported that StarLink was found in Kraft Foods taco shells. But many seem to be problems other than allergies, and even the apparent allergic reactions have not been definitively linked to StarLink, he and Carol Rubin of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. They said the investigation was continuing.
The E.P.A. has asked the panel to deliver a report by the end of the week for the agency to use in its decision on Aventis's request. Stephen Johnson, the agency's deputy assistant administrator, said a decision was likely to take several weeks. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (53%); SANF (BIT) (53%); SAN (PAR) (53%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY BAYER CROPSCIENCE AG (55%); SANOFI SA (53%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (57%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (57%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; GRAIN; GENETICS AND HEREDITY GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (89%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (89%); ALLERGIES (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (73%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS MFG (72%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (59%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



697 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3794 words

HEADLINE: GETTING OUT/A special report.;
Often, Parole Is One Stop On the Way Back to Prison

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 22

 BODY:
It seemed like the perfect solution. Build more prisons and America would be a safer place. In fact, as the nation's incarceration rate has quadrupled over the last two decades, the crime rate has fallen for eight straight years.
But only now are politicians and criminologists beginning to confront an unexpected consequence of the get-tough-on-crime philosophy that created the prison-building boom. More prisoners in prison means that, eventually, more prisoners will be let out. This year, a record 600,000 inmates will be released from state and federal prisons nationwide, up from 170,000 in 1980. 
 As the former prisoners return, largely to the poor neighborhoods of large cities, there is mounting evidence that they represent what some criminologists and prison officials now call the collateral damage of the prison-building boom.
Because states sharply curtailed education, job training and other rehabilitation programs inside prisons, the newly released inmates are far less likely than their counterparts two decades ago to find jobs, maintain stable family lives or stay out of the kind of trouble that leads to more prison. Many states have unintentionally contributed to these problems by abolishing early release for good behavior, removing the incentive for inmates to improve their conduct, the experts say.
In addition, parole officers are quicker to revoke a newly released inmate's parole for minor violations, like failing a drug test, meaning more inmates are returned to prison time and again, creating what some experts say is a self-perpetuating prison class. In California, for example, 68 percent of the people admitted to prison last year were on parole at the time they were sent back, up from only 21 percent in 1980, according to the California Department of Corrections.
Evidence of the troubles posed by the large number of returning prisoners is beginning to show up across the nation.
In Boston, which has had one of the largest declines in crime of any major city, the police superintendent, Paul Joyce, said that newly released inmates were a major reason for a 13 percent increase in firearms-related crimes in the first half of the year. Mr. Joyce said part of the reason was that the former inmates brought prison grudges or gang affiliations back to the streets.
In Tallahassee, Fla., Todd Clear and Dina Rose, a husband and wife team of criminologists, have found that the crime rate in poor neighborhoods rises as the number of newly released inmates increases. Family and financial pressures often are the cause, they say -- including the pressure to pay the $50 to $150 the state charges them for their own supervision.
 
California Led the Way
Although law enforcement experts say that the large number of inmates being returned to prisons is a nationwide phenomenon, nowhere is it more striking than in California, the state with the largest prison population and the first state to abolish flexible sentences, which historically led to early release for good behavior.
In California, four out of five former inmates returned to prison were sent back not for committing new crimes but for technical violations of the terms of their parole; for example, failing a drug test or missing appointments with parole agents.
The state retains the authority to supervise released offenders even though they serve their full sentences. The parole supervision normally lasts three years, barring other infractions. Some of these returning inmates have been to prison 10 times. (The so-called three-strike law, which puts a habitual offender in prison for 25 years to life, does not apply to parole violations.)
Without such a high rate of return of parolees, studies have shown, California's prison population would have declined, not grown, as crime dropped in the 1990's.
The difficulties that inmates face on release showed up in a report last year by the California State Legislative Analyst's Office: 85 percent of released prisoners in California are drug or alcohol abusers, 70 percent to 80 percent are still jobless after a year, 50 percent are illiterate and 10 percent are homeless. Nationwide, the figures are similar. Allen J. Beck of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, a branch of the Justice Department, said 82 percent of people on parole who are returned to prison are drug or alcohol abusers, 40 percent are unemployed, about 75 percent have not completed high school and 19 percent are homeless.
Other reports have found that 20 percent of inmates nationwide suffer from severe mental illness, like schizophrenia or depression. In addition, almost one-quarter of all people infected with the AIDS virus and more than one-third of those with tuberculosis were released from prison or jail in the past year, according to a new study by Theodore Hammett, of Abt Associates, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.
"When most Americans think of the surge in the prison population, they think it has reduced crime and that makes them more secure," said Joan Petersilia, a professor of criminology at the University of California at Irvine, a leading authority on parole. "What they forget is that 97 percent of prisoners will be released, and the more times a person has been to prison before, the more likely they are to be rearrested, because things like finding housing and jobs and re-establishing family ties become harder and harder for them."
The problem is not that individual criminals are committing more crime, Mr. Beck said, but that the pool of potential criminals has grown. "What's worrisome," he said, "is that because we've got more and more people coming out of prison, more and more people are failing, so the risk to the community has increased dramatically."
Take three recent California cases, drawn from official records and interviews with the former inmates:
Antoine Mahan, 33, was released from prison after serving four years for burglary, the last two in solitary confinement. After releasing him directly from solitary confinement, the prison gave him the customary $200 in "gate money," which was supposed to help him start a new life, then drove him to the train station for the trip home to San Francisco.
But Mr. Mahan described himself as a crack addict with the AIDS virus and a diagnosis of manic depression, though he received no drug or psychiatric treatment while in prison, he said. By the time the train reached San Francisco, it was evening, too late, he recalled in an interview, for the required check-in with his parole agent, so, he said, he broke into a McDonald's to sleep and resumed selling and taking drugs. So far, he remains out on parole.
And there is Steven Butler, 44, who was released from prison after serving a one-year sentence for possession of cocaine. Records show he was given his $200 and a bus ticket back to Los Angeles, where he had been arrested.
But Mr. Butler was homeless at the time of his arrest, with no family here, so the first night after getting off the bus, he said, he went back to sleeping on the same skid-row street just east of downtown where he had lived before. With no education, job skills or hope, he said, he used some of his money to buy dope to make himself feel better.
There is also Sam Watland, a 33-year-old from coastal San Luis Obisbo who looks like the surfer he once was. He has been released on parole nine times in the last decade: three times after serving sentences for embezzlement, auto theft and assault, and six times after parole revocations. He has had his parole revoked so many times, and so quickly -- once he lasted only 14 days on the outside -- that the day before his most recent release from prison, he had nightmares he would get picked up again.
California parole agents have become quicker since the early 1980's to revoke paroles, sending people back to prison for violations of the conditions of their release, said C. A. Terhune, who recently retired as the director of the Department of Corrections. Mr. Terhune said that was a response to "the current public climate" to get tougher on criminals, tightening the conditions for parole. With improved urine tests, for example, it is easier for parole officers to catch drug use.
A growing number of prison officials and criminologists say they question whether this drive to revoke parole so quickly is good public policy or whether it simply drives up costs and diverts money from more effective treatment programs.
"I'd have fewer inmates if there weren't parole officers whacking so many guys back," said Martin F. Horn, Pennsylvania's secretary of corrections.
 
3-Time Parole Violator
Jason Peterson had lost 60 pounds when he was released after spending almost two years in solitary confinement at Pelican Bay, California's super maximum-security prison, while serving a sentence for possession of a pipe bomb.
When he returned to his mother's house in San Francisco, after months without human contact, he refused to leave his bedroom, his mother, Jeannine Peterson, said in a lengthy interview recently. Her account was supported by her son's lawyer and a psychiatrist hired by the family.
Concerned about his mental state, Mrs. Peterson, an elementary school special education teacher, called his parole officer, who offered to take him to the hospital. Instead, she said, the parole officer arrived with police officers, who handcuffed her son and took him into custody.
The next morning, the parole agent called to say that Mr. Peterson's parole had been revoked for psychiatric reasons and he had been given an additional year in prison at San Quentin, his mother said.
Mrs. Peterson hired a lawyer, Graham Noyes, who demanded a parole revocation hearing, and a psychiatrist, Terry Kupers, to examine her son. Mr. Noyes and Dr. Kupers said they were excluded from participating in the revocation hearing.
The issue of providing lawyers for inmates in parole revocation hearings is the subject of a class-action suit pending against the California Department of Corrections in Federal District Court in Sacramento. The inmates contend that under rulings by the United States Supreme Court in the 1970's, they are entitled to such representation. The corrections department generally allows lawyers in parole revocation hearings only if the inmate is deemed mentally impaired. Inmates may not call witnesses or exclude hearsay evidence.
Hearings are presided over by a deputy commissioner of the Board of Prison Terms, a branch of the Department of Corrections, who serves as both judge and jury.
The deputy commissioner in Mr. Peterson's case found him to be psychotic and a danger to others, and sentenced him to the additional year in prison, according to department records.
Since then, Mr. Peterson has become an apprentice plumber, but he has had his parole revoked three more times, department records show. Once it was revoked for possession of a dangerous weapon -- a serious issue to the department, given his original conviction -- though his mother and lawyer say it was only a plumber's knife his parole agent found in his toolbox when the agent searched Mr. Peterson's truck.
The next time it was again for possession of a dangerous weapon, what the parole agent described as a hand grenade in Mr. Peterson's bedroom. Mr. Peterson's sister said it was actually a toy grenade she had bought for her Halloween costume.
Then last spring Mr. Peterson was charged with assault and making a terrorist threat when he got into an argument with a former girlfriend, who he said had been harassing his current girlfriend. A department spokesman said the former girlfriend's mother testified against him, but Mr. Peterson's boss in the plumber's union, who tried to testify for him, was excluded from the hearing.
So far, Mr. Peterson has spent a year and 11 months in prison on parole revocations, almost as long as he did on his original two-year sentence. And the total could go on almost indefinitely, because under California law, each time Mr. Peterson has his parole revoked, he stops earning credit toward his original three-year parole term. The parole revocations themselves, in California, can last from a few weeks to a year.
In support of the quick parole-revocation policy, Jerome Marsh, the assistant regional director of parole for southern California, said, "Our No. 1 priority now is public safety," not the more historical goal of trying to help keep offenders from going back to prison.
 
Parole Disappears
It was not always this way.
In 1977, only 788 inmates who had been released on parole were returned to prison in California, compared with 90,000 in 1999.
At that time, most inmates across the nation served flexible sentences, say 5 to 10 years, and parole boards appointed by governors had discretion in determining when prisoners were ready for release, usually when they could show they had rehabilitated themselves or had a job or family waiting for them. Prison officials approved of parole, because it encouraged inmates to improve and helped maintain order.
But California led a sweeping national change in 1977 when it became the first state to take away the power of the parole board and eliminated flexible sentences, replacing them with fixed terms determined in advance by a judge. Under the new system, inmates were automatically released at the end of their term without review by a parole board, though after their release they were still on parole.
The switch came in reaction to the explosion of violent crime in the late 1960's and early 1970's and an unusual agreement by liberals and conservatives that discretionary release on parole was a failure. Liberals complained that parole boards were too influenced by an inmate's race, leading to longer time served for blacks. Conservatives attacked parole boards for letting criminals out too early.
Unfortunately, Professor Petersilia said, "When we adopted fixed sentences, there is no longer any incentive for prisoners to reform, just as there is no way to judge whether their behavior has improved."
Moreover, although in California newly released inmates are still monitored by parole agents, in many states inmates who "max out," in prison slang, are simply allowed to walk out without any further monitoring, sometimes directly from solitary confinement. Nationwide, of the 600,000 inmates to be released this year, 100,000 will be unsupervised, according to Mr. Beck of the Justice Department.
At the same time, the public was calling for a get-tough approach to crime, and many prison rehabilitation programs were eliminated. They included classes, vocational training and halfway houses, where inmates could adjust to the outside world by working regular jobs in the day and staying in supervised housing at night. The money saved went to building more prisons.
According to a report by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the number of state prison inmates participating in drug treatment programs dropped to 1 in 10 in 1997 from 1 in 4 in 1991. At the same time, many states, including New York, have stopped allowing inmates to take college extension courses, which were once very popular, and Congress prohibited inmates from receiving Pell grants to pay for college class tuition, said Jeremy Travis, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington.
Now, only 9 percent of prisoners are in full-time job training or education programs, while 24 percent are completely idle, said James Austin, director of the Institute on Crime, Justice and Corrections at George Washington University.
Bruce Western, a professor of sociology at Princeton University, has found that even when paroled inmates are able to find jobs, they earn only half as much as people of the same social and economic background who have not been incarcerated.
William Sabol, a senior researcher at Case Western Reserve University, said, "That makes parolees less capable of forming stable relationships and supporting families, and therefore more likely to engage in illegal activities."
Similarly, men who have been imprisoned and paroled will have a harder time supervising their children, Mr. Sabol said, making their offspring more likely to get into trouble. Several other studies have found that half of all teenagers in juvenile prisons have parents who have been incarcerated.
In Tallahassee, Professors Clear and Rose found neighborhoods where everyone had at least one friend or relative who had been in prison.
Florida is one of 13 states that now permanently take away the right to vote from anyone convicted of a felony. This is another factor that tends to alienate former prisoners from being a part of society, the experts say.
Another pitfall for former inmates is that even when they do try to succeed, the get-tough movement has made it hard for them to find jobs, with recent laws barring them from certain occupations. In California, parolees are legally banned from working in law, real estate, medicine, nursing, physical therapy and education. Harriet Davis of Berkeley got out of prison in 1986, after serving three years for shooting a man who beat her, and then earned a college nursing degree and passed the registered-nurse licensing test. But the new California law barring ex-felons from nursing has left her to scrape by as a stock room clerk or home care aid, or sometimes on welfare.
The growing number of inmates returned to prison carries a cost to taxpayers as well. Nationwide, in the 1990's, the number of criminals sent to state prisons rose 22.7 percent, to 565,291 in 1998, up from 460,739 in 1990, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. But the number of new criminals sent to state prisons rose only 7.5 percent, while the number of inmates returned to prison, either for parole violations or for committing new crimes while on parole, jumped 54.4 percent, to account for the bulk of the growth in prison inmates.
 
Problems, Solutions
The cases of Ruth Ann Clements and Raul Morales, drawn from interviews and court papers, illustrate the perils of release and a hope for the future.
Ms. Clements had no family or friends in Stockton, the agricultural city where her parole officer took her last spring, putting her in a rundown residential hotel after she had served 10 years in Valley State Prison in Chowchilla, the last four years in solitary confinement, for stabbing her boyfriend to death.
Her parents are dead. Her four children were scattered around the country -- one was in a juvenile prison in Louisiana for being a runaway. Her years in solitary left Ms. Clements, 43, depressed, anxious and disconnected from the world, she and her lawyer, Casandra Shaylor, said.
A prison doctor had prescribed Prozac and Buspar for her depression and anxiety, but when she was released she was not given a supply of the drugs, as required by state law.
Prison officials declined to comment on why she was denied the drugs, citing privacy concerns.
"I get overwhelmed easily now," Ms. Clements said recently, sitting in her small room in the residential hotel, filled with other drug addicts and parolees, put there by the authorities.
Even cooking a meal was hard, she said, since she had not cooked in 10 years. She did not have a car or a driver's license -- it expired long ago -- and she did not know how to get a new one or to find her way around Stockton. Discouraged, she made no effort to find work.
In September, Ms. Clements was charged with drinking and battery, violations of the conditions of her parole, according to the Department of Corrections, after she and a man in the residence got into an argument. She is now back in prison, her parole revoked, with an additional term of 10 months.
Her daughter Amber, 16, who had been released from juvenile prison in Louisiana and put on a bus to Stockton, has been placed in foster care.
"So much for the belief that families should be put back together," her mother wrote in a letter from prison.
Raul Morales has a better chance, thanks to a new official awareness that the prison and parole systems are leading to failure.
A 34-year-old heroin addict from East Los Angeles, Mr. Morales has been sent to prison five times for convictions for drug possession and burglary, and eight times for parole violations. (His early convictions were before enactment of the three-strike law.)
Heroin was all he knew, Mr. Morales said, explaining, "My dad and grandfather did heroin, and so I did heroin with them."
Prison did not change his drug habit. "It says Department of Corrections, but there was no corrections," Mr. Morales said. "You do your time, then you get out, and then you go back to drugs."
But in his most recent incarceration, he found himself in Corcoran State Prison in a new drug treatment program run by Phoenix House, which has a contract with the California Department of Corrections. As he was about to be released, he agreed to enroll in a continuing program administered by Phoenix House in an old apartment building on the boardwalk in Venice, an ocean-front section of Los Angeles. To make sure he did not slip, a Phoenix House van picked him up at the gate outside Corcoran and drove him there.
The Venice building contained 50 beds, with a view of the Pacific, and group therapy, a 12-step self-help program, anger-management classes, vocational training and free medical care. After six months, the former inmates are supposed to be ready to go out on their own.
"It's not easy," said Howard Friend, the director. "When you go for a job application, you have to tell them you've been in prison, and then you often don't get called back."
The Phoenix House program in Corcoran is too new to have been evaluated. But a study of a similar program at the R. J. Donovan Prison in San Diego found that of inmates who completed treatment in prison and then went through an after-care program in the community, like Phoenix House, only 27 percent were returned to prison after three years. By comparison, in a control group of inmates who did not participate in treatment, or refused after-care, 75 percent ended up back in prison.
That is a surprising result, California officials say. The drug treatment program reversed almost exactly the state's overall recidivism rate of nearly 70 percent of inmates ending up back in prison.
It could be such success stories that led California voters to approve, over the strong opposition of virtually all law enforcement officials, a referendum that will change the state's approach to drug violations. The ballot measure calls for first-time drug offenders and parolees found using drugs to be provided treatment instead of being sent to prison.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Antoine Mahan served four years for burglary, the last two in solitary confinement. From solitary, he was given $200 in "gate money" and a drive to the train station.; "It says Department of Corrections, but there was no corrections," said Raul Morales, who has been sent to prison five times for convictions and eight for parole violations.; Sam Watland has been released on parole nine times in the last decade. The night before his last release, he said, he had a nightmare about being quickly rearrested.; Steven Butler, homeless when he was arrested, returned to homelessness. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A32)
 
Graph: "Revolving Door" shows parole violators returned to custody in California from 1980-1999.
(Source: California Department of Corrections)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS & REHABILITATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PROBATION AND PAROLE PRISONS (94%); PAROLE (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); PROBATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FAMILY (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); DRUG TESTING (50%); GANGS (50%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX PAUL JOYCE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



698 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: CONTESTING THE VOTE: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Is Cast as Litigant, Statesman and Cheerleader

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28

 BODY:
He never directly asked for the nation's patience. Today, three weeks after the most inconclusive presidential election in modern times, he took note of it, saying, "The American people have shown great patience in these extraordinary days," but he did not actually ask for it.
Still, that is precisely what Vice President Al Gore is seeking as he soldiers on with his uphill legal battle in Florida and sets in motion a full-fledged public-relations campaign, starring himself, on the nation's airwaves in an effort to keep his supporters from losing heart. 
 Mr. Gore stepped before the cameras this afternoon for the second time in 17 hours. His top advisers briefed the nation's Democratic governors today. Tonight the vice president taped a lengthy segment to be broadcast Wednesday morning on NBC's "Today," and aides said he was planning more interviews.
In addition, Mr. Gore invited Lawrence H. Summers, the secretary of the treasury, to lunch at his residence here -- and invited the cameras in for a brief snapshot. While Mr. Gore told reporters later that the two mostly discussed the economy, the pictures telegraphed the important signal that Mr. Gore is moving ahead with transition plans; that is, Gov. George W. Bush is not the only one planning to be president.
Mr. Summers is a likely choice to stay on in a Gore cabinet, and his presence at Mr. Gore's table today was designed to convey a sense of continuity of the economy, a major theme of Mr. Gore's presidential campaign, as well as a continuity of power, despite the weeks of legal wrangling over the vote.
"We cannot jeopardize an orderly transition of power to the next administration, nor need we do so," Mr. Gore said. He said later, "I don't think it's right for me to be offering people jobs," but left little doubt that he wanted to show that he had a firm handle on the economy's throttle.
"Most of what Secretary Summers and I talked about had to do with economic policy, with the state of the U.S. economy, what is likely to happen in the months and years ahead here and in other parts of the world," he said, calling Mr. Summers "a close friend and close adviser."
During a short meeting with reporters outside his house, Mr. Gore sought to convey greater urgency and tried to cast his battle as an unselfish struggle to defend democracy. With the National Cathedral soaring in the background, Mr. Gore persisted in pressing some of the same themes he had raised in his speech the night before.
"As I said last evening, this is America," Mr. Gore said. "When people vote, their votes are counted."
He persevered in his notion that thousands of ballots have not been counted. In fact, many ballots have not been recounted by hand, which is what he is seeking, though most have been counted or examined and rejected by counting machines.
As to fairness, Mr. Gore was asked how it was fair to ask for a recount of votes in Democratic areas in Florida but not in Republican areas.
Mr. Gore said he had proposed a hand recount of the entire state, but acknowledged that "it's less of a realistic possibility now." He also discussed the "old, cheap" voting machines in low-income areas of the state, a discussion that, along with his handling of the legal issues, showed that he is immersed in the dispute in a way that Mr. Bush is not.
Mr. Gore's new public-relations strategy and more frequent statements are intended to buttress his sympathy with weary voters, but may also carry risks. Several Republican strategists noted that they were happy to see Mr. Gore taking center stage because they believe he loses support with every performance.
Of his court action, Mr. Gore said today that his goal was simple: "To ensure a complete count of all the votes cast in Florida." But he also needs to keep public opinion, which is starting to build against him, from eroding completely. And so he portrayed himself as the one who is trying to be "expeditious" while Governor Bush, he says, is the one who is dragging things out.
"I believe this is a time to count every vote, and not to run out the clock," Mr. Gore said. "This is not a time for delay, obstruction and procedural roadblocks."
This is just what the Republicans have accused Mr. Gore of. And today they said that he had failed in his address Monday to make his case. Further, they said, he was not stating the truth in his assertion that the ballots had not been counted.
"We had a count of all the votes in Florida, and then a complete recount of all those votes and then a selective manual recount of some of those votes," Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's communications director, told reporters in Texas. "Now, having come up short in all those counts and all those times, Vice President Gore is proposing to make up yet another set of rules."
Today, Mr. Gore wanted to convey that he had proposed a timetable for ending the legal challenges in Florida, and while he portrayed his plan as far speedier than Mr. Bush's, it could work out to be quite similar.
"We have proposed to the court in Tallahassee a plan to have all the ballots counted in seven days, starting tomorrow morning, and to have the court proceedings fully completed one or two days after that," Mr. Gore said.
"Unfortunately, just about an hour ago, Governor Bush's lawyers rejected this proposal," he added. "Instead, they have proposed two weeks of additional court proceedings and additional hearings, right up to the Dec. 12 deadline for seating electors. And under their plan, none of the thousands of votes that remain to be counted would be counted at all."
Mr. Gore's lawyers went to court today in Florida seeking a recount of about 13,000 ballots in Miami-Dade and Palm Beach Counties.
Mr. Gore's advisers said that Mr. Gore wanted to show that he had a plan for ending the counting, that he would not battle on forever and that he was not so steeped in the recount that he could not focus on other matters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore, in Washington yesterday, spoke of a timetable to end all election lawsuits in Florida. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LITIGATION (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC) AL GORE (93%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



699 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Pequot Businesses Lift Economy

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 28

 BODY:
The Mashantucket Pequot tribe and its profitable casino, hotel and pharmaceutical businesses are having a mostly positive impact on Connecticut's flourishing economy, according to a report released today by the University of Connecticut.
Gov. John G. Rowland praised the study, and the tribe, at a news conference at the State Capitol, but some officials who traveled to the news conference from towns near the tribe's Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantucket said they were not impressed. 
 The report, issued by the university's Center for Economic Analysis, credited the Pequots with creating 41,000 jobs since 1992, when Foxwoods opened, and adding an estimated $1.2 billion a year to the state's economy. The report also attributed major increases in tourism and a $1.9 billion gain in personal income throughout the state to tribal businesses.
In addition to the casino and the adjacent hotel, the tribe runs the $18.9 million Pequot Pharmaceutical Network, which provides prescription drugs to tribe members and employees.
Though Mr. Rowland called those figures "quite amazing," they did not sway officials from towns in southeastern Connecticut who say Foxwoods has worsened traffic congestion and brought increases in crime and addictive gambling. The first selectmen from Preston and North Stonington dismissed the report, which was commissioned by the Pequots for $80,000, as unrealistically rosy.
Foxwoods, according to its compact with Connecticut, is obligated to pay the state 25 percent of its gross slot machine revenues. In 1999, that payment totaled $174 million, about 1.5 percent of the state's budget. Last month alone, Connecticut collected $16.3 million in slot revenues. The money is divided among the state's 169 cities and towns.
The 41,000 jobs created, directly and indirectly, by the tribe account for 2.4 percent of all jobs in the state, and reversed a loss of 10,000 jobs, most of them resulting from layoffs by military contractors, from 1988 to 1993, said Stan McMillen, the report's project manager. Most of the estimated $1.9 billion increase in personal incomes generated by Pequot enterprises is in New London County, where the Foxwoods complex towers over the landscape.
The $1.2 billion in annual revenue that the report estimated would be generated by the tribe's hotel and casino operations over the next 20 years, moreover, equals nearly 1 percent of Connecticut's yearly gross product.
"The study confirms our understanding that Foxwoods is a huge contributor to our economy," the governor said. "They've turned the region into a resort destination. They've been a great corporate citizen and a great friend to the community." He even read from from a September study by the Moody's Investors Services credit-rating firm titled, "Casino's Deal Connecticut a Good Hand," and credited the tribe with helping to maintain Connecticut's favorable Aa3 bond rating.
Foxwoods is one of two casinos in Connecticut. The Mohegan Sun Casino, run by the Mohegan tribe in Montville, is about 15 miles west of Foxwoods. Though the study was commissioned by and focused solely on the Pequots, Fred Carstensen, the report's director, said Mohegan Sun contributed a lesser but still significant sum to the state's economy.
Though the report ascribes an 81 percent increase in traffic on Route 2 to the two casinos, it said the cost of that congestion this year would be only $76,276 in lost time and productivity. It also said crime rates near the casinos had increased only marginally.
Nicholas H. Mullane II, the first selectman of North Stonington, who was at the news conference, said he believed that the study glossed over traffic and crime rates. "I consider this nothing but P.R. for Foxwoods," he said.
Robert Congdon, the first selectman of Preston, said the report failed to note his town's recent findings that the value of some homes along Route 2 had dropped 20 percent since 1988. "We are negatively impacted by the casinos," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT; MASHANTUCKET PEQUOTS; FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); PEQUOT PHARMACEUTICAL NETWORK (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT; MASHANTUCKET PEQUOTS; FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIANS, AMERICAN CASINOS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); GAMING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); RESORTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); CITIES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (62%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



700 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Guggenheim On East River Is Years Away

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Even as officials from City Hall and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum enthusiastically described their ambitious plan yesterday for a world-class museum in Lower Manhattan, they said the project faced fund-raising hurdles, a daunting list of governmental reviews and tough scrutiny from the site's neighbors.
For the $678 million project to go forward, the City Council has to sign off on it, as do the state and federal governments. The museum, of course, must raise hundreds of millions of dollars to build the project, which will include a performing arts center and public parks and plazas at three East River piers. 
 The environmental impact on the river, the effect on traffic and changes that both supporters and opponents expect in the atmosphere of the waterfront neighborhood are among the concerns that must be addressed before construction starts.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani; Thomas Krens, the director of the Guggenheim Foundation; and Frank O. Gehry, the architect, each acknowledged these hurdles yesterday during a ceremony on the Upper East Side at the museum's headquarters, which are one-tenth the size of the proposed museum. They said that at the earliest, construction could start in about two years.
But each man also expressed, in sometimes passionate terms, his conviction that the museum is well worth the effort.
"Civic leaders have a responsibility to leave their city far greater and more beautiful than it was transmitted to us," Mr. Giuliani said. "Today's announcement marks another significant step in fulfilling the promise of leaving the city more beautiful than we found it."
To date, no organized or broad-based neighborhood opposition has formed against the plan, which consists of a cloudlike titanium, glass and stone building, supported 80 feet above ground level, leaving room for an outdoor public space below. But the chairwoman of Community Board 1 and several local residents say they have serious reservations about the proposal, with some saying they are committed to blocking it.
"It would be a disaster," said Una L. Perkins, a member of Community Board 1 and chairwoman of the Brooklyn Bridge South Neighborhood Association. "We don't need any more tall buildings in Lower Manhattan. We need more open space."
There were also clear voices of support in the neighborhood, like Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, who said yesterday that the new museum would be just what downtown needs. The city estimates that it would attract two million to three million visitors a year and generate $280 million in new spending by tourists and others.
"It would transform downtown into a 24-hour, 7-day-a-week community that we envisioned when we set out to revitalize the area five years ago," Mr. Weisbrod said.
Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, a Democrat who is a contender for mayor, had a relatively tepid reaction to the plan, saying yesterday that there was a need for more study of the city's proposed commitment of $67.8 million worth of assistance; that assistance would entail handing over city-owned land valued at $35 million, as well as $32.8 million in capital contributions.
"The City Council will ensure that the sizable public property and monetary investment that the city is being asked to make will be in the best interest of the people of New York," Mr. Vallone said.
The project has at least five major steps to clear before construction could start, according to the City Economic Development Corporation. First, the museum must settle on a final building design and on a plan for the outdoor public space; at this point, the plan for that space calls for an ice-skating rink, a riverfront promenade and a public park, and much of it would be underneath the building, which would be supported on stilts.
Mr. Gehry said he expected many changes, in part based on the reaction by local residents or others, so much so that he said he could even see abandoning the titanium exterior surface that is now so central to the preliminary design.
"Don't fix yourself on that," Mr. Gehry said yesterday. "The important urban idea is to make a building like this fit into the fabric of this great city." He added, "It has a persona, and it is important that the new building fit into that persona, not mimic it, not copy it, but become a good neighborhood to it."
State and federal environmental reviews must be completed before permits can be issued by the State Department of Environmental Conservation and the United States Army Corps of Engineers. The city and the museum must reach final lease terms for the land, and the City Council would have to vote on the proposed city money for the project.
A series of special city land-use and zoning permits related to waterfront access and to the bulk of the building are needed, requiring review and votes by Community Board 1, the Manhattan Borough Board, the Planning Commission and the City Council, as well as the signature of the mayor. Even the Metropolitan Transportation Authority must decide whether to sign off because the museum would be on top of one of its subway tunnels.
Madelyn G. Wils, chairwoman of Community Board 1, said that the board had not yet taken a position on the proposal, but that initially, she thought that the building would be far too large for the site. "It is so big that looking north from below it, you could not even see the Brooklyn Bridge," she said, adding that it would cause unacceptable traffic congestion.
Museum officials said they were ready to listen. Mr. Krens estimated that the museum's opening was five or six years away. "It is going to be a long process," he said. "A process that by necessity and by design will involve the local community."
The museum needs a total of about $1 billion for the project: $678 million for the construction and about $300 million for an endowment. Of the private money that it needs, the museum says it has raised about a third, but the remaining money needed far exceeds the $144 million that was collected during its last major capital campaign.
Even with these large numbers, museum officials said that given the prestige of the project, they were confident that they could raise the money.
Ms. Wils and one City Council staff member said yesterday that despite all of the enthusiasm by the mayor and museum officials about the project, major delays had been common in large public-private ventures. For example, Battery Park City was first conceived in 1966, but its first tenants did not move in until 1982.
"I am not going to say it is not going to happen," Ms. Wils said. "But it is going to take a much longer time than they think it will. Not 5 years. I think maybe 10."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Krens, Guggenheim Foundation director, left; Frank O. Gehry, architect; and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announcing plans for a new $678 million museum. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC); GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION CITY COUNCIL (77%); GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC); GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION CITY COUNCIL (77%); GUGGENHEIM FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ART; FINANCES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (74%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); GEHRY, FRANK; KRENS, THOMAS; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); FRANK GEHRY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



701 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
STEINBERG, DAVID

 BODY:
STEINBERG-David. Of Washington, D.C. On Sunday, November 26, 2000, at his residence. The cherished son of Renita and the late Myron (Michael) Steinberg. He was a graduate of the American University. Mr. Steinberg owned a TV-production company and was co-founder and President of The State Theatre in Falls Church, VA. He is survived by many loving friends. Services will be held at "Gutterman-Musicant", Hackensack, Thurs, November 30th, 1PM. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, DAVID MYRON (MICHAEL) STEINBERG (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000



702 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN FALLS. The dollar rose against the yen on expectations that growth in the United States will continue to outpace that in other major economies. In New York, the dollar settled at 111.08 yen, up from 110.16 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since June 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



703 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
If voters could select the machines, there would be a president-elect by now.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel; This column appears here every Thursday. Virginia Postrel is the editor at large of Reason magazine and the author of "The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise, and Progress."

 BODY:
FOR three weeks, the question has been nagging Americans: how can the most technologically advanced nation on earth have such antiquated, unreliable, confusing voting technology? How can the outcome of the presidential race dangle with the chads left on 1975-style punch cards?
Tapping this frustration, two of the Senate's most publicity-savvy members, Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican, and Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, called for federal studies of voting procedures. In his announcement, Mr. Schumer labeled the current system "antediluvian." 
 Even Amazon.com jumped into the game, poking fun at the infamous "butterfly ballot" used in Palm Beach County, Fla. The company posted a parody page that claims to provide a new way to navigate the Amazon site. The mock-up lists the company's various shops in the two-column butterfly format, with links in a row of buttons down the middle. (The spoof is at www.amazon .com/exec/obidos/subst/home/all-stores -ballot.html.) The links work, so, unlike Palm Beach voters, you know for sure whether you've punched the wrong hole. Amazon's conclusion: "Ease of use -- it matters!"
Ease of use, however, was exactly what Theresa LePore, Palm Beach County's elections supervisor, was trying to get when she created the butterfly ballot. She redesigned the ballot to make the type larger and more readable for her elderly constituents, "so they wouldn't have to squint." The butterfly ballot wasn't antediluvian technology; it was a bad innovation.
The real puzzle is why it's so hard to sort good balloting ideas from bad ones and, consequently, why we don't see the sort of incremental progress we're used to in the rest of society. After all, Americans have been voting for a long time. We've had plenty of opportunities to discover problems. Yet unlike the Amazon site, FedEx mailing forms, A.T.M.'s or state lottery cards, ballots don't become much friendlier or more reliable over time. Bad ballot designs and clunky election processes survive where hard-to-navigate Web sites and poorly run restaurants never could.
One reason is what economists call the principal-agent problem. Voters -- the owners, or principals -- don't choose the voting machinery. Like shareholders of a corporation, voters delegate day-to-day management to professionals, or agents.
But these officials don't necessarily want the same things voters want. Managers may not feel like redesigning vote-counting procedures to adapt to easier-to-use technology. Or they may want to buy the latest whiz-bang gadget because it's cool. They may prefer to spend extra dollars to improve their offices or hire friends. They may ignore complaints, or procrastinate in dealing with problems. This isn't corruption. It's just human nature -- as true of corporate managers as it is of election officials.
There's a vast economic literature on principal-agent issues, much of it devoted to theoretical models of how to align employee compensation with principals' goals. In practice, the carrot for corporate managers is usually a plan that ties their pay to how well the stock price is doing. The stick is the threat of a hostile takeover that will boot them out or, before things get to that, a rebellion by large shareholders.
These real-world incentives depend on competitive financial markets and a "market for corporate control," as Henry Manne, a law and economics scholar, termed the takeover process in a seminal 1965 article. If shareholders don't think their agents are doing a good job, they'll sell their stock, lowering the stock price. If enough shareholders do that, the company will be vulnerable to a takeover. Without such competition, it would be much harder to persuade managers to care about what owners think.
The fundamental problem with the ballot-process "market" is that there isn't enough competition. The agents operate pretty much unchecked by the principals. These officials may be elected, but what they do rarely gets much scrutiny. Except during a rare crisis, voters don't have much information about alternatives. And it's not worth the typical voter's time to investigate. The ballot-process market has no equivalents to institutional investors or hostile takeovers.
There's another vital difference: Since money is fungible, investors generally want the same thing -- higher financial returns. But voters are like customers, with many different preferences. Some want to vote at home, while others enjoy the communal feeling of a polling place. Some like computers, while others fear them. Different people find different ballot formats appealing. Despite this diversity, everyone in a precinct gets the same monopoly service.
Voters do generally agree on a few standards. They want accurate counts, secret ballots and a record that can be audited. They want to make sure all voters are legal and no one votes twice. Those aren't so different from the requirements that bank customers expect from A.T.M.'s. But not all A.T.M.'s use the same interface, and bank customers can also use human tellers, the telephone, the mail or the Internet. There's no "one best way" for all bank customers. Adhering to the same basic public and accounting regulations, banks compete, and even the same bank usually offers a choice.
The result is an open-ended process that pushes banks to find ways to make their procedures more error-proof and customer-friendly. An A.T.M. today is a lot more dependable than an A.T.M. in 1980.
Over the last few weeks, people who believe that progress means standardization have mocked the decentralization of America's election process. But the diversity of our system is the reason Mr. Schumer could cite several promising experiments from around the country.
And it's the reason not every voter was stuck with butterfly ballots or cranky ballot scanners. Picking a single standard can easily mean picking a bad one. It almost certainly means picking a static, inflexible standard. In the 1970's, after all, punch card ballots were cutting-edge technology.
Improving the ballot process doesn't mean making voting machines literally look like A.T.M.'s. It means learning from the competitive process that gave us A.T.M.'s. If we think about the problem that way, we'll seek to regulate only those essential aspects that all voters care about, while allowing diverse alternatives to compete in attracting and pleasing voters.
It may be hard to imagine a world where polling places and polling technologies compete. But a month ago it was hard to imagine the world we have now.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Voters cast ballots on Nov. 7 at a retirement community in Palm Beach County, Fla. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; VOTING MACHINES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); LOTTERIES (50%); 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA CHARLES SCHUMER (72%); ARLEN SPECTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



704 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: PROTECTING PRESIDENTS -- Parliament's lower house voted 282 to 130 to approve a measure giving former presidents immunity from criminal prosecution for acts committed while in office, ignoring protests that they were inviting leaders to break the law. The measure, which requires two more readings before becoming law, also bars searches of a former president's office or papers. Michael Wines (NYT) 

RUSSIA: 20 YEARS SOUGHT IN SPY CASE -- Prosecutors in the espionage trial of the American businessman Edmond Pope, left, have asked the judge for a 20-year prison term and a fine of more than $250 million, Mr. Pope's lawyer said. The lawyer, Pavel Astakhov, said prosecutors also accused him of continuing to spy during his seven-month imprisonment on charges of trying to buy secret plans for a torpedo. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: MIXED FEELINGS ON CLINTON -- President Clinton's plan to visit Belfast next month has produced expressions of hope from mainstream Catholic and Protestant politicians for reviving the flagging peace accord he helped broker. But Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Rev. Ian Paisley's hard-line Democratic Unionists, said the president was not welcome. "None of us are going to take a lecture on morality from this president," he said. The president is expected to include Dublin and London in his Dec. 12 to 14 trip.
 Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
EUROPEAN UNION: MAD COW PLAN -- The European Commission, in an effort to restore consumer confidence in the beef industry, proposed three new measures to try to combat mad cow disease. At a meeting in Brussels on Monday, the European Union's 15 agriculture ministers will be asked to adopt a ban on the use of meat and bone meal in all farm animal feed, to back the introduction of a plan to remove all untested beef cattle from the food chain, and to extend the banned category of high-risk parts of the cow to include all the intestine.
 Paul Meller (NYT)
 
FRANCE: NIGHT WORK FOR WOMEN -- Pressed by the European Court of Justice, the French have voted to discard a longstanding ban on nighttime work by women. The 19th-century law, which prevented women from working in certain jobs, including factories and mines, was intended to preserve moral and family values. But the court gave France until today to abolish the statute. France would have faced a fine of about $120,000 a day if it had not complied with the court's directive.
 Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
VENEZUELA: VOTE ON UNIONS -- The Supreme Court has ruled that the government can proceed with a referendum intended to strip union leaders of their posts and pave the way for formation of a single new government-controlled labor federation. The vote, scheduled for Saturday, is opposed by unions, one of the few institutions that President Hugo Chavez does not control, as well as by human rights groups and opposition parties.
 Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOMALIA: CURRENCY DROPS -- A sudden influx of new bank notes into Somalia's anarchic currency system dropped the shilling to its lowest level against the United States dollar since 1992. After 500 million shillings were hauled in containers to the capital's main business market, the shilling was trading at about 13,000 to the dollar, down from between 10,000 and 11,000 shillings earlier. Somalia has no central bank or functioning central government. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
SRI LANKA: RESPONSE AWAITED -- The government has still not officially responded to an offer by the Tamil rebel leader Velupillai Prabhakaran for unconditional peace talks, but a state-owned paper, The Daily News, said it was "a breakthrough of sorts in beginning negotiations because it was the position of the government that there would be no cease-fire prior to talks."
 Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
AFGHANISTAN: PLEA FOR AID -- The United Nations has appealed for contributions of $229 million to aid Afghanistan, hit by its worst drought in 30 years and a civil war that this year alone has displaced 200,000 people and sent 30,000 across the border. Last year a slightly smaller appeal was made, but less than half the request was met. Donors appear "fatigued" with Afghanistan's seemingly endless troubles, United Nations offficials said.
 Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
CHINA: STARBUCKS FEELS HEAT -- A Starbucks coffee shop in Beijing's Forbidden City has removed its round green logo from the outside of the building in which it is housed. Growing controversy about the Starbucks outlet in the ancient imperial palace complex has thrown the store's future into doubt and is creating a mild backlash against the coffee company, which is otherwise enjoying a surge in popularity among young urban Chinese.
 Craig S. Smith (NYT)
 
PHILIPPINES: PROTEST OVER PRESIDENT -- About 20,000 demonstrators marched on the presidential palace for an all-night protest to press President Joseph Estrada to quit, a week before he goes on trial before the Senate on corruption charges. The demonstrators clapped and cheered as they burned a 20-foot effigy of Mr. Estrada, who is accused of taking bribes from illegal gambling syndicates. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
LEBANON: BID TO REVIVE ECONOMY -- The new government of Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri decided to slash import duties in a bid to revive a flagging economy, Information Minister Ghazi Aridi said. From tomorrow, taxes on most imports will now range from zero to 70 percent instead of 6 to 105 percent, Mr. Aridi said after the weekly cabinet meeting. (Agence France-Presse)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MAMMALS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (86%); WOMEN (86%); LAWYERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); IMMUNITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); BEEF (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); JUDGES (70%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (69%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (69%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (67%); ANIMAL FOODS (67%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (65%); FAMILY (62%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); LABOR UNIONS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



705 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown Shows in Revised Data

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29

 BODY:
The economy expanded in the third quarter at the slowest pace in four years, holding down inflation and depressing corporate profits, revised government figures showed today.
Gross domestic product grew at a 2.4 percent annual pace in the quarter, revised from a previously reported 2.7 percent, as businesses built up fewer goods in inventory, invested less in computers and exported fewer items, the Commerce Department said. 
 Third-quarter growth was less than half the 5.6 percent rate in the second quarter. Federal Reserve policy makers may regard further evidence of slower growth as more of a threat to the record expansion than rising prices. The committee that sets rates next meets on Dec. 19.
"If growth continues to deteriorate, the Fed will find the risks weighted more heavily toward that of an economic slowdown rather than a flare-up of inflationary pressures," said Richard Yamarone, senior economist at the Argus Research Corporation in New York.
The G.D.P. price deflator, a broad measure of inflation tied to the report, rose at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the third quarter, previously estimated as a 2 percent increase. The rise in the deflator was the smallest since a 1.3 percent rate of increase in the fourth quarter of 1999.
The government's initial reports of after-tax corporate profits for the third quarter showed they rose at a 0.6 percent annual rate after a 2.5 percent pace in the second quarter. That was the weakest showing since profits declined at a 1.6 percent rate in the fourth quarter of 1998, Commerce Department officials said.
The third-quarter G.D.P. revision in part reflected slower inventory growth. Unsold goods piled up in warehouses and store shelves at a slower pace. Business inventories rose $73.5 billion at an annual rate in the third quarter, initially reported as an increase of $79.9 billion.
Exports grew at a 15.4 percent rate, down from the previous estimate of 16.2 percent. Net exports, which include the effect of imports, subtracted more than three-quarters of a point from G.D.P. growth.
Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of overall economic activity, grew at a 4.5 percent annual rate, the same as initially estimated, and up from the 3.1 percent rate in the second quarter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"
Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation.
 
Graph shows rate of change from 1996-2000.
 
3rd Qtr. Revised
To: +2.4%
From: +2.7
 
(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



706 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: South Africa to Ask for International Gem Certification

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 29

 BODY:
South Africa plans to ask all nations on Friday to back an international certification system for gems, saying it is concerned not only that diamonds are fueling civil wars among other Africans but also that adverse publicity and calls for boycotts will hurt its own diamond-mining industry.
Ambassador Dumisana Kumalo of South Africa, who will introduce a resolution in the 189-member General Assembly, said in an interview today that piecemeal attempts to control diamond exports, which finance rebel organizations like the Revolutionary United Front in Sierra Leone and Unita in Angola, are not enough. 
 In two weeks, publication is expected of an expert panel's report to the Security Council on the illegal trade in what are called "conflict diamonds."
"One thing that they will show in their report is that the same characters who are involved in trading in Angola are the ones who pop up in the Congo, the ones in Sierra Leone," Mr. Kumalo said. "So there is a very small network wherever these conflict diamonds are." He said that without concerted action worldwide, there can be no hope of stopping the trade.
Botswana and Namibia have joined South Africa in offering to set up a technical process for certifying diamonds, based on standards already established by various nations. The United States, Britain, Israel and Belgium, among other countries where gemstones are worked and sold in significant quantities, are backing the South African General Assembly resolution.
"There has to be a way in which those who buy diamonds can be able to tell that these are the good diamonds and these are the not-so-good diamonds," Mr. Kumalo said. "You can't tell the origin of a diamond even it you are Tiffany's, so we want to protect people like that, too."
The fallout from lost sales would be most acute in southern Africa, the world's largest source of rough diamonds, Mr. Kumalo said. "The livelihoods of thousands of South African families depend on mining. Botswana, Namibia, ourselves -- without diamonds the three of us would face really serious economic consequences." All three have internationally recognized regulations for certifying stones.
"Only 4 percent of the world's diamonds are the conflict diamonds, and 96 percent are prosperity diamonds, as they call them in Botswana," he said. "To an overwhelming extent the industry is fine and the companies are doing what companies are supposed to do." He said that only a few rebel leaders, aided by some corrupt government officials and a ring of "kingpins" running the trade, are the problem. They have been able to defy or circumvent Security Council resolutions, though with greater difficulty since the Security Council, under the leadership of Canada, took up the issue early this year, Mr. Kumalo said.
"Sadly, this resolution is too late for the young children in Sierra Leone who lost their arms in these crazed attacks funded by these diamonds," he said. "Or for the people of Angola -- millions of whom have been uprooted from their homes. But we have to start somewhere."
Although the South African resolution is expected to pass, Mr. Kumalo's campaign for international standards met resistance. "We've had an interesting fight because the Russians and the Indians, for instance, were not very happy about international standards and mechanisms because they were saying that this is not a problem in their part of the world and why should they be subjected to these international standards," he said.
"This is beginning to happen on a lot of issues at the U.N.: we have to keep on coming back to saying that the U.N. is a global institution and the problems with conflict diamonds are global problems; they're not just African problems," he said.
Mr. Kumalo said he took his resolution to the General Assembly rather than the Security Council to get as close to universal approval as possible. "This is the kind of resolution that the co-sponsors should be all 189 countries, to really send a message throughout the world that we cannot accept the tainting of this industry by a few people," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); BOTSWANA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); ANGOLA (92%); NAMIBIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA; AFRICA (94%); BOTSWANA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); ANGOLA (92%); NAMIBIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BOYCOTTS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); CONFLICT MINERALS (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); DIAMOND MINING (89%); MINES & MINING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CORRUPTION (69%); CHILDREN (67%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



707 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Greenland Is Pampered But Ponders Cutting Free

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: NUUK, Greenland

 BODY:
In this land without trees, lumber stores sell sheets of plywood stamped "Canada." And although Canada lies just 200 miles to the west, the plywood comes here through Denmark, the colonial power 2,000 miles to the east.
Such economic absurdities make some Greenlanders determined to beat Quebec to become North America's newest independent nation. 
 "If there were oil, independence would come in about a quarter of an hour," Mikaela Engell, a foreign affairs spokeswoman for Greenland's Home Rule Government, said in her office, a wooden building that was the American Consulate here in World War II. But a few days after she spoke, Statoil, the Norwegian oil company, announced the fruits of $40 million spent drilling offshore here this summer: dry holes.
Once again, Greenlanders studied their finances and concluded that while their island may be geologically part of North America, their economy overwhelmingly depends on Europe. Each year, Denmark subsidizes Greenland to the tune of $460 million, or about $8,300 for each of Greenland's 55,000 inhabitants.
"Once you look at the books, you understand why the politicians feel no urgency about independence," said Vagn Anderson, a local businessman. "With more development projects, it could be possible."
So while a commission studies eventual independence from Denmark, residents of the world's largest island (if Australia is considered a continent) seem resigned to watching some much smaller islands flying their flags outside the United Nations.
While Greenland's flag, a sun rising red over white polar ice, is omnipresent here, little pressure for a real break from Denmark seems to be bubbling in the comfortable public housing blocks where Eskimo families dry freshly hunted caribou meat on apartment terraces.
After weaning Greenland from American military control during World War II, the Danes set out to be nice colonialists, creating Scandinavian-style living standards here rarely seen in the Arctic.
"Nearly everything here is built on the Danish system, so it would be rather difficult to leave," said Gunnar Martens, the Danish high commissioner.
Not only do Greenlanders enjoy universal health coverage, but they also get free college and vocational training in Denmark, an offer taken up annually by about 500 young Greenlanders. In this tidy town of brightly painted houses and well-paved streets, hundreds of new public housing units are under construction, with Danish taxpayers largely paying the mortgages.
While native languages retreat across the Arctic, Greenlandic is widely spoken.
"Many Greenlanders already think they are independent," said Jim Milne, a piano teacher who is one of the three Americans living in this town, which has dropped its old Danish name, Godthab. Seated in a sunlit cafeteria in one of Denmark's latest gifts, a new culture center, he waved toward the window and added: "But the thorn is the money from Denmark. Everything you see that rises from the ground has been shipped in from Denmark, and paid by Denmark."
Josef Motzfeldt, Greenland's deputy premier, said his country must build trade and other ties with Canada and the United States. "We want to open more to our neighbors to the west," he said. "It is not a good neighbor relationship."
The island's tourism board stationed a representative in New York this fall, and a Montreal-based shipping company is to start regular freight service between Canada and Greenland next summer.
"More self-government is important to us, but within the Danish realm," said Jonathan Motzfeldt, Greenland's premier and no relation to the deputy premier. In two years, the independence commission is to make proposals.
Fueling the undercurrent for independence is the cultural and racial insecurity of the Eskimos (or, as they prefer, Inuit). In Greenland, with the number of Danes rising rapidly to 8,000 today, or 15 percent of the population, Greenland's Inuit leaders think of Alaska, where southern migration has reduced the indigenous part of the population from 50 percent in 1930 to 15 percent today. Arguing for independence, one Greenlander recently cited the "Alaska nightmare." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: DENMARK (96%); CANADA (94%); GREENLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ARCTIC (91%); NORWAY (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENLAND; DENMARK; EUROPE; DENMARK (96%); CANADA (94%); GREENLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ARCTIC (91%); NORWAY (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (87%); RETAIL LUMBERYARDS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); TRENDS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



708 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Bill Seeks to Increase Internet Use

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 29

 BODY:
The Japanese Parliament passed a bill today that is meant to increase Internet use in the country and thereby help revive the struggling economy.
The legislation, which takes effect in January, eases regulations for the Internet and sets up rules to expand electronic commerce and make Internet access more affordable. 
 This month the government adopted a supplementary budget that allocates $35.4 billion for projects including a high-speed telecommunications network linking schools.
Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, who survived a no-confidence vote in Parliament last week, has been promoting Internet expansion as a way of turning around the economy.
Internet use in Japan is substantially less widespread than it is in the United States, in large part because of higher cost. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE PARLIAMENT (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAPANESE PARLIAMENT (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGETS (88%); TRENDS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (86%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); 

PERSON: YOSHIRO MORI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



709 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: John Hancock Told to Pay Pension Fund

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
A federal judge has ordered John Hancock Financial Services to pay millions of dollars in damages to a Unisys pension plan after finding that Hancock, the big Boston insurer, used some of the retirement money for its own benefit without regard to the pension plan's rights.
Judge Denny Chin of United States District Court in Manhattan found Hancock's conduct so egregious that, he wrote at the end of his 48-page opinion, he will remove Hancock as a trustee of the Unisys pension funds in December. This will allow Unisys to withdraw millions of dollars from its annuity contract with Hancock and invest it elsewhere. 
 Judge Chin awarded the pension plan $19.5 million for lost investment opportunity and for violation of pension rules against self-dealing.
With interest, the judgment will total about $65 million plus lawyers' fees, said Ann V. Kramer, a litigator at Anderson Kill & Olick, which represented Harris Trust and Savings Bank, which was the trustee for the pension plan when the lawsuit began in 1983.
Hancock said it would appeal.
The benefits that workers at Sperry, which became Unisys in 1986, received were not affected because Hancock handled only some of the plan assets.
Judge Chin's decision was issued last Wednesday, 17 years after Hancock was sued, but became widely known only yesterday.
Hancock insisted that it had no duty of loyalty to put the interests of the pension plan ahead of its own in regard to at least $22 million of what were known as free funds.
Before the case could be tried, the loyalty issue was appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which ruled 6 to 3 that Hancock owed a duty of loyalty. The insurance industry then began a lobbying campaign aimed at effectively undoing the decision by rewriting the law. Congress obliged in 1996, but did not touch the Unisys lawsuit.
"Congress basically gave the insurance industry a pass on these kinds of lawsuits," said Marc Machiz, a Washington pension lawyer who represented the Labor Department in the Supreme Court case.
The case Judge Chin decided had its beginning in a 1941 decision by Sperry to buy an annuity contract that earned interest at 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent annually. If Hancock generated a higher interest rate, the extra money was credited to the Sperry plan, but was called "free funds" and was part of Hancock's general investment account, court records show.
In 1977, 1979 and 1981, the Sperry Retirement Committee withdrew $12 million of these "free funds" to invest elsewhere, earning as much as 25 percent interest, Ms. Kramer said.
In 1982, Sperry asked to withdraw $4 million and was refused. Hancock was then sued.
During the trial three years ago, Barry Shemin, Hancock's chief actuary, was asked whether $4 million was significant to a company as large as Hancock. Mr. Shemin, noting that the company was deluged with requests for withdrawals during an era of high interest rates, testified that "if you are trying to make a significant dent in a cash-flow problem, you don't necessarily only take one large action."
"You might also take a series of smaller actions," he said.
Judge Chin observed that "every little bit helps."
To which Mr. Shemin replied, "Right, exactly."
Judge Chin focused on that admission, saying that "Hancock refused to return the plan assets because of its cash-flow problems" without considering its duty to the pension plan.
He also found that Hancock used these assets as a cookie jar for its own benefit. "In making investment and allocation decisions, Hancock repeatedly placed its own interests ahead of the interests of the plan and plan participants and beneficiaries," the judge wrote. "Hancock invested plan assets in its own home office properties and charged itself below-market rents." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USY (LSE) (92%); UIS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNISYS CORP; JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (95%); REED SMITH LLP (83%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (69%); ANDERSON KILL & OLICK PC (56%); SPERRY RETIREMENT COMMITTEE (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNISYS CORP; JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES SPERRY RETIREMENT COMMITTEE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); JUDGES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS (87%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); ETHICS (77%); ANNUITIES (75%); LOBBYING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; CHIN, DENNY (JUDGE) DENNY CHIN (90%); BARRY SHEMIN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



710 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Chase Capital Partners Is Planning a New Venture Fund

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
At a time when returns from the venture capital business are flagging, Chase Capital Partners, the long successful private equity arm of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, is inviting wealthy outside investors and institutional investors to join it in a new fund.
The venture capital business, in which investments are made in start-up companies and then sold years later with expectations of a profit, has been growing aggressively. The funds that make these investments raised just more than $50 billion through the third quarter, almost 39 percent more than they did last year over all, according to VentureOne. 
 This increase has come despite a sharp drop in the return from venture capital investments. In the third quarter of this year, the return plunged to 3.9 percent, according to Venture Economics/Thomson Financial, down from 59.4 percent in the last quarter of 1999. This is the first time the return has dipped below 10 percent since the fourth quarter of 1998.
Chase Capital's move could lower some of Chase Manhattan's exposure to the profitable -- but very volatile -- returns from the venture capital business. While the gains make nice surprises for investors and Chase's stock, the losses can be hard to swallow, even when the long-term prospects for the venture capital business are still very good.
The effect on quarterly earnings and the size of its investment is a problem that Chase Manhattan officials have been worrying about, so much so that there were reports that the bank might spin off Chase Capital Partners. The bank denied that speculation in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this month.
After a spectacular $1.31 billion gain in the fourth quarter of last year, earnings from Chase Capital tailed off to a $25 million loss in the third quarter, mostly because of the plunge in the market value of telecommunications stocks that Chase Capital owns. And two Wall Street analysts said this week that they expected losses from Chase Capital to lower fourth-quarter earnings for Chase Manhattan.
On the plus side, bringing in money from outside will allow Chase Capital to earn fees on the money, providing a steady stream of revenue. Fees could be as much as 1.5 percent on the total raised, which is expected to be about $5 billion, and 20 percent of the profits earned.
Chase Manhattan officials would not comment on the new fund yesterday because of legal restrictions surrounding this kind of private placement investment, which is restricted to institutional investors and wealthy individuals. The company confirmed the plan to start the new fund in a filing with the S.E.C. The bank said in the same filing that it would invest at least $8 billion of its own money over the next five years along with the $5 billion in the new fund.
Mario Giannini, president of Hamilton Lane Advisors, a Philadelphia-based private equity firm that invests in venture capital funds, said he was considering joining Chase Capital's new fund. And he said it was not unusual for venture capital funds to go full steam when the market looks sour. "The theory is that you put out money consistently," he said. "The markets may be down, but you ride the cycles."
George Bicher, a bank analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, said that losses because of the decline in the market value of the publicly traded stock that Chase Capital owns could cut Chase Manhattan's fourth-quarter earnings 15 to 20 cents a share from his previous estimate of 83 cents a share. But he also said this was mostly an accounting problem. He said that Chase Capital's business "is still viable and robust."
Calculating the market value of the publicly traded stocks at the end of a quarter does not reflect the cost of the investment, the profit or loss if Chase Capital were to sell the stocks or the fact that more than 80 percent of Chase Capital's investments, as measured by cost, are private.
At the end of September, the total cost of the publicly traded stocks owned by Chase Capital was $801 million, according to Chase Capital, while the market value of the stock was $3.11 billion. The cost of the investments in technology, media and telecommunications was $394 million, while the market value was $2.06 billion. So the loss is on paper, reflecting the retreat from the huge run-up in technology stocks, which gave Chase Capital and Chase Manhattan such a big profit in the fourth quarter of last year.
Chase Capital Partners, which was started in 1984, now manages $22 billion. It is involved in venture capital; in growth equity investments, which are in more developed firms that need capital to grow further; and in buyouts of existing firms. Both the venture capital investments and the growth equity investments have been hurt by the sharp decline in publicly held stocks this year, which has driven the Nasdaq composite index down 33.5 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Still Flush With Cash"
Though the returns earned by venture capital funds on their investments have dropped off considerably, they are still having no trouble raising money or finding places to invest it.
 
Graph shows money raised by venture capitalists and money invested by venture capitalists from 1996-2000. (Source: VentureOne Corporation *Through the third quarter.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMB (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); HAMILTON LANE ADVISORS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; VENTURE CAPITAL VENTURE CAPITAL (96%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); STARTUPS (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); BONDS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



711 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Capital Spending Is Slowing Broadly

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
For the last decade, even as the United States economy has soared, corporate profit has paled next to the boom in companies' spending on new computers and software, industrial machinery and buildings. With the help of bank loans, bonds and most of the time, a willing stock market, companies since 1991 have bought almost $9 trillion worth of equipment, lifting productivity and sustaining the longest economic expansion in American history.
Now, however, that explosion in investment is showing broad signs of slowing. Corporate profits are falling in many industries, giving companies less money to spend. Banks have tightened their lending policies, raising the cost of money. And the swoon of technology stocks has forced the very companies that have made some of the most substantial investments in new equipment to reconsider how they operate. 
 With consumer confidence falling at the same time, analysts say the moderation in capital spending has raised the odds that the economy will markedly slow next year.
Some see an increased risk of recession.
"The slowdown has arrived," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, reacting to a downward revision in the gross domestic product. "The remaining question is how hard the landing will be."
And Henry Kaufman, a longtime Wall Street economist known for pessimism, remarked, "We're moving into a different phase of economic and financial behavior than the one we've been in for the last four, five years." Mr. Kaufman sees a one-in-three chance of a recession in 2001.
In the third quarter, capital spending grew at an annual rate of 7.8 percent, about half its pace in the previous quarter, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Many analysts expect this to fall below 8 percent next year for the first time since 1992.
Last quarter's slowing helped cause the economy to expand at just a 2.4 percent annual pace from July through September, the lightest quarterly bump in four years, the department reported in its regular revision of gross domestic product data.
And capital spending now appears unlikely to provide much of a lift in the year's final months, as it did during previous lulls in the long expansion, thanks to purchases of computers and Internet-related software. In October, orders for durable goods -- those expected to last at least three years -- fell 5.5 percent, more than twice as steep a decline as analysts had predicted, the Commerce Department said on Monday.
On the face of things, a slowing of investment hardly seems to present the economy's biggest potential problem. Virtually all economists expect capital spending -- in the construction of new warehouses, the laying of new telephone wires and the purchase of new office computers, among other things -- to outpace the rest of the economy easily in 2001. In fact, said David A. Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's, most executives would be thrilled if their industries grew 8 percent next year.
"Investment is slowing down," Mr. Wyss said. "But it's slowing down from a ferocious pace to just a fast one."
Still, because of capital spending's special role in the long boom, there is room for worry, economists say. Through the first nine months of the year, investment spending accounted for 15 percent of G.D.P., adjusted for inflation, near its highest level on record. For most of the 20th century, that share has been less than 10 percent.
Not only have capital investments fattened the bottom line of manufacturers, but they have also helped companies of all kinds become more efficient. Since 1993, productivity -- the amount that one worker can produce in an hour -- has jumped almost 20 percent in the United States. That has allowed the economy to grow and incomes to rise without much inflation.
Conversely, economists say, a slowdown in long-term investments could hamper profits immediately and productivity in the years ahead. Wages, in turn, could stagnate -- as they have in the last 12 months -- and the stock market could continue falling, causing consumers to keep their credit cards in their pockets.
"You could get a reinforcing set of events," said Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs, "and the end of the capital spending boom could spell the end of the expansion. That's not our view, but it's not an unbelievable story."
Instead, Mr. McKelvey said he expected capital spending to continue growing, as the tight labor market makes new equipment an easier investment than labor, while rapid technological changes force companies to keep up. Still, he has lowered his estimate of next year's capital spending growth to 6.8 percent.
The continued increase in imports provides one reason for concern. Last quarter, the United States trade deficit set a record, at an annual pace of $425 billion, the government said yesterday. Even in the face of a slowing economy, overseas companies are continuing to increase their share of American consumption.
"We've got a recession in smokestack America," said Richard B. Berner, chief domestic economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. As a result, he said, many American companies "are not going to be investing in capital equipment."
Another troublesome industry is telecommunications, where companies have loaded up on debt in recent years to pay for ambitious expansions. But lately, banks and investors have become more conservative, making it much harder for many technology companies to borrow money or raise it by issuing shares.
Capital spending now amounts to 35 percent of the industry's retail revenue, said Paul Sagawa, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "Keep this up, and in five years you'd have capital spending higher than revenue," he said. "It's unsustainable."
In recent weeks, SBC Communications said its capital spending would stay the same from this year to next, while Williams Communications announced that it would spend $200 million less than it had planned -- or about $5.6 billion -- in 2000 and 2001.
On the other hand, the flameout of many dot-com businesses is less worrisome because they have spent the bulk of their money on marketing and personnel, not physical investments, analysts said. Still, there are small signs of decline. For example, Psinet, a struggling Internet company in Ashburn, Va., said earlier this month that it would cut planned investments as much as $200 million.
Even Starbucks shows signs of being affected. It continues to open dozens of coffee stores around the world, helping capital spending increase 20 percent, to $314 million, this year. But that is down from 30 percent in 1999, despite the company's continued success. One reason, analysts say, is the recent $42 million charge the company took to cover losses from investments in Internet companies like Cooking.com and Kozmo.com. Without that loss, they say, Starbucks would have had more money for new stores.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Slowing Investment"
Annualized rate of change in nonresidential fixed capital investments, adjusted for inflation.
 
Graph shows rates from 1996-2000. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; VENTURE CAPITAL; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; BANKS AND BANKING; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); RECESSION (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); STATISTICS (69%); HISTORY (56%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID HENRY KAUFMAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



712 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs Underestimated, Experts Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29

 BODY:
Health costs will grow faster than the government now assumes, partly because of advances in medical technology, and the long-term financial outlook for Medicare is therefore less rosy than officials assume, a federal advisory panel has concluded.
The chairman of the panel, composed of three economists and three actuaries, presented its findings today to Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of health and human services. It is the first such outside review in nearly a decade. Dr. Shalala is one of six Medicare trustees. 
 In an interview tonight, Dale H. Yamamoto, the chairman of the panel, said: "We think health care costs will grow somewhat faster than the trustees now assume. That means that the current long-term projections of Medicare spending over the next 75 years are low."
The trustees of the Medicare program said in April that the hospital insurance trust fund, which pays hospital bills for Medicare beneficiaries, would be solvent until 2025. But under the new assumptions recommended by the advisory panel, the trust fund would run out of money four years sooner, in 2021.
Medicare provides care to 39 million people who are elderly or disabled. The annual cost, $218 billion in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, is expected to double by 2010.
The panel, known as the Technical Review Panel on the Medicare Trustees' Reports, was created by Dr. Shalala to evaluate the assumptions, estimates and forecasts made each year by the trustees. She will present the panel's conclusions this week to other trustees of the Medicare program, including Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and Labor Secretary Alexis M. Herman.
New technology includes medical devices, diagnostic products, drugs and surgical procedures -- everything from digital mammography to laser surgery to artificial skin, from angioplasty to hip replacement to the radioactive "seeds" used to treat prostate cancer.
The panel did not discuss proposals for new benefits, like coverage of prescription drugs. But its report is likely to reinforce the need for caution as Congress considers such expansions of the program.
For several years, the Medicare trustees have assumed that average health costs for each beneficiary will grow, after 2025, at the same rate as the gross domestic product.
But Mr. Yamamoto, an expert on employee benefits at Hewitt Associates in Lincolnshire, Ill., said he had told Secretary Shalala that "that assumption is not necessarily reasonable."
In the long term, Mr. Yamamoto said, "members of the panel believe that health care costs per beneficiary will grow about 1 percentage point more than the annual increase in gross domestic product per capita."
Len M. Nichols, an economist at the Urban Institute who serves on the panel, said: "This is an important change. The current assumption by the Medicare trustees, in their last report, was that per capita G.D.P. would grow 1.2 percent a year over the next 75 years."
If the higher estimates are accurate, they imply that the annual cost of Medicare, after 75 years, would be 60 percent higher than now assumed, panel members said.
What does that mean in practice?
David M. Cutler, a professor of economics at Harvard who is on the panel, said: "Health spending is currently about 13.5 percent of gross domestic product. In 75 years, under the assumptions suggested by our panel, it would be 30 percent of G.D.P."
Another panel member, Michael E. Chernew, a health care economist at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, said, "Technology is the primary factor driving the growth of per capita health care costs in the long run."
Mr. Cutler said he believed that medical services would "get better as they become more expensive," so Americans would be willing to pay the additional costs. "Technology," he said, "accounts for half to two-thirds of the growth in medical spending that is not attributable to inflation in the economy as a whole."
In 1993, after President Clinton took office, officials predicted that Medicare's hospital trust fund would run out of money in 1999. But improvements in Medicare's financial condition have reduced the sense of urgency. A strong economy has generated additional tax revenues. Cutbacks in payments to health care providers, combined with a crackdown on fraud, have slowed the growth of Medicare spending.
The six Medicare trustees, including two representatives of the public, supervise the financial operations of the program and make recommendations to Congress on how to improve its financial condition.
The advisory panel does not see managed care as a panacea.
"Managed care may get inefficiencies out of the system and can reduce the level of health care costs," Mr. Chernew said, "but it does not necessarily slow the rate of growth in costs to a sustainable rate. It's uncertain how much managed care will slow the adoption of new medical technology."
One of the panel members, Alice F. Rosenblatt, said she agreed that "Medicare costs will grow more than current assumptions indicate."
Ms. Rosenblatt, a senior vice president of WellPoint Health Networks, said the government should be doing more analysis of Medicare spending. At WellPoint, a managed care company with 7.7 million patients, she said, "we do more analysis of data and trends" than does the Medicare program, which serves five times as many people.
Mr. Yamamoto said he felt confident in predicting that technology would drive up health costs.
"We have a generation of people coming into the Medicare program who have lived a pretty good life," he said. "They will demand more technology."
Even procedures that save money in an individual case may add to health spending over all, experts said. Doctors now usually remove the gallbladder with a few small incisions in the abdomen, using a technique that is safer and less expensive than the old procedure. But, Mr. Chernew said, more people have the operation now, so, in many health plans, total spending is higher. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HEW (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (82%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (82%); MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MEDICARE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE MEDICARE (93%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); MEDICAL LASERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); WILLS (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (68%); PROSTATE DISEASE (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; SHALALA, DONNA E (SEC); YAMAMOTO, DALE H LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



713 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Jitters About New Economy Bolster Old-Economy Issues

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
While a welcome assessment of the nation's economic health sent blue-chip stocks rising yesterday, investors again punished technology issues for their bleak earnings prospects.
And after the market closed, Gateway, which makes and sells personal computers, warned that profits and sales for the fourth quarter would be lower than analysts' estimates because consumer holiday sales of personal computers have been much weaker than expected. 
 Gateway said it expected operating income of at least 37 cents a share, 25 cents below analysts' consensus estimates. Its shares fell $10.70, to $20.30, in regular trading, but were up 20 cents in after-hours trading.
Shares of personal computer makers tumbled on Tuesday after Salomon Smith Barney suggested excess inventory could be a problem.
Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 121.53 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,629.11, but the Nasdaq composite index fell 28.05 points, or 1 percent, to 2,706.93. The Nasdaq's decline gave it yet another new low for this year.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 5.82 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,341.91.
Despite the decline in technology stocks, investors traded with cautious optimism on new evidence that the nation's economic growth was slowing, analysts said. The Commerce Department said yesterday that the gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 2.4 percent last summer, the slowest rate in four years and a steep decline from the 5.6 percent rate in the second quarter.
Wall Street considered the report good news because the slowdown could be an incentive for the Federal Reserve to declare at its meeting on Dec. 19 that inflation is less of a risk to the economy. That could be a precursor to lower interest rates.
"We're still feeling quite bullish on the market," said Eugene G. Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman. "The Fed likely will go to a more neutral bias, which is what today's G.D.P. figure pointed to."
While other recent reports have pointed to a slowing economy, investors have been waiting for a significant drop in G.D.P. because it carries more weight with the Fed, analysts said.
The possibility of lower interest rates, Mr. Mintz said, would help ease some of the expected damage from fourth-quarter earnings disappointments.
"Earnings are going to be mainly weaker than people expected," he said, adding that history has shown that "lower interest rates will overpower disappointing earnings."
Investors have been selling since September because of lackluster results and worries about inflation and have been focusing on expensive technology issues that are not producing the same stellar profits as last year.
The technology sector, already punished for its dismal performance, tumbled further yesterday. Microsoft lost $1.94, to $65.06; Sun Microsystems slipped $1.50, to $79.75.
Investors continued to migrate to old-economy stocks, whose earnings are seen as more predictable.
"You are seeing the rally in safe havens like McDonald's and drugs and places like retailers that have been washed out," said Jim Myers, director of technical research at Janney Montgomery Scott.
McDonald's rose $1.25, to $32.50.
Drug and financial issues, which are often considered safer bets in uncertain or bearish markets, also bolstered the blue chips. Merck picked up $2.62, to $94.88, and Bank One rose $1.34, to $35.56.
Retailers, which have suffered on concerns that a dip in consumer confidence and the slowing economy would hamper holiday sales, were mixed. Wal-Mart Stores advanced $2.34, to $51.75. Limited fell $1.56, to $20.38, after releasing November sales results that were short of Wall Street's expectations.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rally
By Reuters
Bonds extended their rally yesterday after the government said the economy grew at its slowest pace in four years in the third quarter and technology stocks continued to slide.
Yields on most Treasuries tumbled to their lowest levels in a year or more, trading three-quarters to one percentage point below the Federal Reserve's 6.5 percent rate on overnight loans between banks, an indication the market was betting official rates would follow suit.
The price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 15/32, to 101 23/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.52 percent from 5.58 percent on Tuesday. The 30-year bond rose 16/32, to 108 22/32. Its yield fell to 5.64 percent from 5.68 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a two-year note:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price: 99.869
High Yield: 5.695%
Low Yield: 5.665%
Median Yield: 5.689%
Accepted at low price: 98%
Total applied for: $31,440,240
Accepted: $10,014,220
Noncompetitive: $940,030
Interest set at: 5 5/8
 
The two-year notes mature on Nov. 30, 2002.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GATEWAY INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); NEW ECONOMY (91%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); 

PERSON: EUGENE G MINTZ (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



714 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: CONTESTING THE VOTE: ELECTIONS AROUND THE WORLD;
Yes, Democracy Is Imperfect, Even in Those Places That Never Heard of Chads

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 29

 BODY:
In India, portable polling stations are carried into the desert on the backs of camels. Others are hauled through forests and across rivers as the world's largest democracy organizes elections for more than 600 million voters.
But once inside the polling booth, Indians have a relatively easy task, at least by the standards of the butterfly punch-card ballot in Palm Beach County. Presented the names of candidates and their political parties, listed one beneath the other, voters apply an ink stamp beside one of them to indicate their choice. 
 So it goes in much of the world, an informal survey suggests. Democracy is still a low-tech, old-economy business: ballots are marked by hand -- with crosses or stamps or fingerprints -- and then counted by hand, with an assortment of officials supposed to guarantee impartiality looking on.
If manual counting is "subjective," as George W. Bush suggested this week, then global democracy is overwhelmingly a subjective thing. Tallying by "objective" machines or computers is still extremely rare.
"We don't have any problems with electronic ballots, because we don't have any," said Iain McLean, an expert on a British electoral system where hand counting is standard practice. "But we should hardly pride ourselves on our bumbling amateurism."
An explosion of pride in various home-grown or start-up expressions of democracy has, however, accompanied the travails of the United States as it seeks to decipher what the American people said. From Serbia to Zimbabwe to Azerbaijan, glee at American adversity in its trademark product -- democracy -- has been irrepressible.
"If this had happened in Zimbabwe," said Jonathan Moyo, the spokesman for Robert Mugabe's government, "we would have been subjected to sanctions."
Such Schadenfreude, now reaching epidemic proportions, is the price paid by the world's "beacon of democracy" when the outcome of a presidential election is seen to dangle by "dimpled" or "pregnant" or "hanging" chads -- those tantalizing fragments of ballots that have been partly punched or indented, but not so decisively as to convince an automated counter.
There were no such problems in the presidential election in the Ivory Coast last month. After registering, voters dipped a finger in ink that would stain their skin for a couple of days and so deter any inclination to vote twice. Then they made a print of their finger inside a box next to the candidate of their choice.
Those candidates were indicated by name and party affiliation. They were also represented by photographs intended to help illiterate voters. (In Egypt, for similar reasons, symbols like a camel, a crescent or a Ramadan lamp are used to represent parties on ballots.)
After applying a fingerprint, Ivory Coast voters dropped the ballot into a glass box, a symbol of transparency. Later, election officials tallied the results in the company of representatives from each candidate. Democracy at work in more or less the form it takes in much of the world.
But democracy, as is well known, is only the least imperfect of political systems. There was a shortage of ballots in some areas, a shortage of election officials in others.
There was also a shortage of willingness to accept any but the preordained result. When the military ruler who had called the election, Gen. Robert Guei, was found to be losing, officials close to him uncovered "massive fraud" and declared him the winner. As in Yugoslavia, it took a street uprising to give the ballot backbone and dislodge an authoritarian ruler from power.
In Mexico, democracy has existed for decades. Every six years, over a period of 71 years, voters went to the polls and selected the candidate from the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, to govern them. Democracy-as-clockwork.
Things changed only this year, after President Ernesto Zedillo set up a new agency, the Federal Elections Institute, that spent almost $1 billion cleaning up the mechanisms of democracy in its Mexican guise.
New booths for the nation's 112,500 polling stations were designed. They were the first to have a curtain and the first to fit only one voter. No longer did many Mexicans mark their ballot in sight of, and under the suasion of, the local PRI boss.
In addition, for the first time, 700,000 Mexicans were randomly selected to act as polling officials, and a computer system was established that rapidly posted on the Internet the results of the manually counted voting.
As Mexico shows, democracy is pliable. Intimidation, voting by dead people (but not their election to the Senate) and ballot stuffing are some of the ways of endowing democracy with a despotic edge. In the Indonesia of President Suharto, people had to vote at work, where ballots were opened and tallied on a big board visible to everybody.
So the privacy of the polling booth is critical. But the Philippines has come up with an alternative. People vote in little fold-out cardboard enclosures set atop school desks, before putting their ballot in boxes.
The Philippines is a highly literate nation, and voters there are required to write in the name of their candidate -- an unthinkable notion in Cambodia, where most people are semiliterate at best and a selection of powerful reading glasses is offered to voters at booths.
To counter the "subjectivity" of hand counting, the Philippines makes the tally of votes a very public business. Boxes are opened, ballots read out and the results marked on huge hand-lettered paper sheets taped to walls. Courtyards of polling places ring to the sounds of names like Cruz, Ocampo and Manglapus.
Family names may be sullied in Kazakhstan if it should emerge that democratic dissent exists within a family. So under a system known as "family voting," the father often collects all the voting cards from family members who are eligible and takes them to the polls to vote for his entire clan. Although not strictly legal, the practice is widely tolerated.
In many countries, absence from the polls is not forgiven, or, if so, only grudgingly. No absentee voting by mail is allowed in Mexico, and so border towns like Tijuana get very crowded on election day. Turkey also has no provision for absentee voting.
British citizens living abroad must appoint a proxy to go to the polling place with an authorization to vote for them. In Germany, any postal ballot must be received by the close of business on election day; Florida's 10-day wait for mail from overseas is unthinkable.
In some places, voting is not optional. Australia makes its people vote; citizens are fined, at least in theory, if they do not do their civic duty. Turks are also obliged by law to vote, although the penalties for not doing so have been lifted. Brazilians must explain themselves if they fail to abide by an obligation to vote.
Some European countries are beginning to test machines to count the votes. Germany has used a few in local elections, but they must be publicly tested first and approved by the Interior Ministry. Britain uses machines in some voting for local offices, but legislation would be required for their use in a general election -- the vote for a parliament and a prime minister -- and no such legislation is pending.
Egypt, however, has simplified matters to the point where machines would be superfluous, at least in its presidential election. Parliament nominates one person to run for president, on a yes-or-no ballot. Since parliament has been in the control of the state party, the National Democratic Party, since the revolution, the candidate (and future president) is always the incumbent.
But this, too, is democracy, some would argue.
"Just because a country does not have a perfect election," said Rauf Huseynov, an adviser to the president of Azerbaijan, "that does not mean it is undemocratic, as the United States has now shown."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philippines, 1998: Voters at a Manila schoolhouse.; Germany, 1998: A Bavarian voter checks her papers.; Cambodia, 1998: Tallying results in Phnom Penh.; Japan, 1998: Counting ballots in Tokyo.; Haiti, 1995: Elections workers in Port-au-Prince.; India, 1999: A counting center in Bombay.; Kenya, 1998: Vote-counting in Nairobi. (Photographs by Associated Press and Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); HAITI (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); SERBIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (74%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (57%); INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); HAITI (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); SERBIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (74%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (71%); TRADEMARK LAW (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



715 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
South Africa to Push Gem Certification System
South Africa plans to ask the United Nations to back an international certification system for gems tomorrow. South Africa is concerned not only that diamonds are fueling civil wars among other Africans but also that adverse publicity and calls for boycotts will hurt its own diamond-mining industry. A10 

Aristide Victorious in Haiti
Election officials declared former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide the winner of the presidential election on Sunday that was boycotted by major opposition parties. A15
 
Dispute Over Election Timing
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France, left, made an unexpected call to hold the 2002 presidential election before legislative contests, which could undercut the re-election strategy of President Jacques Chirac, who opposes the plan. A9
 
Competing Armies in Serbia
Serbian special police retook a village that is on the front line of a confrontation with Albanian militants. The encroachment of armed Albanians over some months has alarmed Serbians and presented a challenge to the government of President Vojislav Kostunica. A3
 
Balkan Crime in Netherlands
Balkan gangs that specialize in smuggling immigrants, drugs and weapons are making Amsterdam an operations center and they are growing violent, prosecutors say. A7
 
Deal on Navy Ship Inquiry
The United States said it had signed an agreement with Yemen on how to proceed with the investigation into the bombing of the destroyer Cole, after American demands for more access to information, evidence and potential witnesses. A5
 
Fund for Japan's War Slaves
The Kajima Corporation, the largest general contractor in Japan, agreed to establish a $4.6 million fund to compensate Chinese wartime laborers or their survivors. A16
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A18-32
 
Partisanship Shaping Attitudes on Election
Americans are not overwhelmingly distressed and remain deeply divided along partisan lines over who should be president, a New York Times/CBS News poll found. While Republicans expressed impatience, Democrats said they were willing to wait as the legal appeals and political machinations play out, a critical factor for Vice President Al Gore, whose political support is dependent on backing from his own party. A1
 
Lawyers for Mr. Gore said chances for victory would be shattered if they had to wait until Saturday to begin counting disputed ballots, and they want the Florida Supreme Court to do the job itself, immediately. A1
 
Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida said it would be an "act of courage" for the Legislature to convene a special session to name Florida's 25 electors if Mr. Gore persisted in contesting the state's certified presidential vote for Gov. George W. Bush. A27
 
Interviews with Florida election officials and voters suggest that some African-Americans -- it is unclear how many -- were turned away from the polls on Election Day. A1
 
When Congress meets in early January to count electoral votes, Republicans will control the House but Democrats -- at least until the next president is sworn in -- will almost certainly control the Senate, a situation promising no obvious resolution to any dispute over electoral votes. A27
 
Underestimating Health Costs
Health costs will grow faster than the government assumes and the long-term financial outlook for Medicare is therefore less rosy, a federal advisory panel said. A32
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Weapon Against Colon Cancer
An 18-year study found that the simple but little-used fecal occult blood screening test might help people avoid getting colon cancer. A26
 
Trouble for Breast Screening
Experts said a crisis was taking shape as mammography centers scale back and close because of inadequate reimbursement rates and fears of malpractice. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Support for Plan to Send City's Trash Out of Town
The City Council approved a $6 billion network of stations, barges, trucks and trains to transport the city's daily mountain of trash out of town after the Fresh Kills Landfill in Staten Island closes next year. A1
 
Nassau Rescue Plan Approved
Leaders in Nassau County agreed on a fiscal rescue plan that allows one of the nation's wealthiest counties to avert financial ruin and a state takeover of its day-to-day operations. B1
 
Guilty Verdict in Brick Assault
A jury cleared a panhandler, Paris Drake, 37, of attempted murder but convicted him of first-degree assault in the Midtown brick attack last year on Nicole Barrett, 28, who sustained permanent brain damage. B1
 
Union Leader Defends Troopers
The president of the New Jersey troopers' union defended the aggressive drug-interdiction stops the State Police started making more than a decade ago -- even if, he said, race was sometimes a factor. B1
 
A Recount Is Called Off
Dick Zimmer, the Republican candidate for New Jersey's 12th Congressional District, conceded to the incumbent Democrat, Rush Holt. B5
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Yanks Set to Sign Mussina
The Yankees reached agreement in principle with the free-agent pitcher Mike Mussina on a six-year contract worth about $87 million. D1
 
OBITUARIES C19
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Hunting Art Stolen by Nazis
Associations representing American museums reached agreement with a presidential Holocaust panel on guidelines for combing museum collections for art looted by Nazis. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
A Further Sign of a Slowdown
Capital spending in the third quarter grew at an annual rate of 7.8 percent, about half its pace in the previous quarter, the Commerce Department said, reinforcing the view of many analysts that the economy would slow markedly next year. C1
 
Warning From Gateway
The nation's second-largest direct seller of computers said Thanksgiving weekend sales were 30 percent below last year's, and it warned that it would probably miss quarterly earnings and revenue projections. C1
 
Trouble for Software Maker
A Belgian maker of speech-recognition software, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products, filed for bankruptcy protection. Its Dictaphone division, a Connecticut-based rival that it bought this year, also filed. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
Report Card for Home Workers
A new Web site, The Franklin Report, rates more than 1,100 of New York's home-service providers, including decorators and contractors, some of whom are threatening legal action. F1
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: Florida's legislative tripwire; Romania in retreat; shine the light on Albany.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E4
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 1812 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (66%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (66%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (66%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (66%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (66%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ALBANIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); HAITI (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KAJIMA CORP (66%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); ALBANIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); HAITI (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); BOYCOTTS (77%); NAVIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); WITNESSES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); MINES & MINING (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); DIAMOND MINING (72%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SMUGGLING (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); APPEALS (61%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (52%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



716 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Clients Fatten Rolodex Of Giuliani's Best Friend;
Private Sector Prizes Ex-Adviser's Help

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
For years, Peter J. Powers was the calm to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's storm, the shy boyhood friend who grew up to govern alongside the mayor and become, quietly, the second most powerful man in City Hall.
Now, four years out of City Hall but after only two as the president of his own consulting firm, Mr. Powers has assembled a stunning list of clients with hundreds of millions of dollars in business before the Giuliani administration. Colleagues in the business credit his judgment and savvy, but also his 40-year friendship with the mayor. 
 Among his clients are the New York Jets, whose owners are negotiating with the city for a new home in a proposed stadium on the West Side. Mr. Powers, a former corporate tax lawyer who left City Hall to join a hedge fund that went out of business, also advises the financial information company of Michael R. Bloomberg. Mr. Bloomberg, who is worth $4 billion, is considering running for mayor.
Mr. Powers's other clients include the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, which this week was given the right and financial help by the city to build a 40-story, $678 million headquarters on the East River. Another client of Mr. Powers, the Museum of Modern Art, received the approval of a City Council zoning panel this week for a $650 million expansion.
Mr. Powers also advises Pfizer, the nation's largest drug company, which has headquarters on 42nd Street and a manufacturing plant in a large urban renewal zone in Brooklyn. He advises Waste Management Inc., the nation's largest trash hauler, which has $259 million in contracts to collect city garbage. And he advises the Greater New York Hospital Association's profit-making subsidiary, GNYHA Ventures, whose executive vice president, Lee H. Perlman, first met Mr. Powers at City Hall.
Mr. Powers, 56, emphasizes that his company, Powers Global Strategies, gives advice to businesses, and that he is not a registered lobbyist seeking action from government officials. "I don't do it," he said in an interview in the Midtown offices of Howard J. Rubenstein, the city's premier public relations consultant, from whom Mr. Powers rents space. "Never. Look, I'm legally entitled to lobby. There's no restriction on me lobbying; it's just a choice that I've made." Why? "When you do that, when you had the position I had, it could be embarrassing. People would question it all the time."
Consultants, unlike lobbyists, do not have to file reports under the city's stringent lobbying laws, meaning that Mr. Powers also does not have to disclose his fees. Nonetheless, major companies in New York City typically pay consultants at least $5,000 to $10,000 a month. Although Mr. Powers would not disclose the number of his clients, he did confirm 10, meaning that he may gross $600,000 to $1.2 million annually from those clients alone. His salary in 1995 as first deputy mayor was $112,000 a year.
Mr. Powers, who was always seen as a conciliatory voice in a tough-minded City Hall never known for building friendships with outsiders, is hardly the first mayoral aide to create a lucrative career based on government connections and expertise. But his career is striking in an administration that has tried, not always successfully, to present itself as freer of such influence than City Halls past.
Four years ago, after news accounts detailed the thriving lobbying business of two of the mayor's most influential unpaid advisers, Raymond B. Harding and Herman Badillo, Mr. Giuliani reacted at first by saying he wanted to ban all lobbying of city agencies. But skeptics said that would be like banning winter, and the mayor conceded that he did not know how such a ban would work. Nothing, in short, changed.
"The truth of it is, if I wanted to do business in New York City, then Peter Powers would be high on my list to talk to," said Mel Miller, a successful city lobbyist and the former speaker of the New York State Assembly. "He can tell you who to talk to. Now, obviously, if he talks to that person, he's lobbying. But if he tells you to talk to that person, he's not."
The difference between offering advice and lobbying is a fine one. Under city law, lobbying includes any contact with a government official on behalf of a client to influence a city action, like the awarding of a contract.
"I don't set up meetings with people," Mr. Powers said, "I don't do winks, I don't do nods, I don't call the deputy mayors, I don't call the commissioners, I don't call anybody." Nothing, however, prevents a client from contacting the government official and then using the consultant's name. Even so, Mr. Powers said he tells clients not to do so, although it is unclear how much he can actually control name-dropping. "That does not go on," he said emphatically.
Joseph J. Lhota, the deputy mayor who in essence has Mr. Powers's old job, said yesterday that although he saw Mr. Powers at social events, he did not talk to him about clients. "Peter Powers has never lobbied me," he said. "He's probably the most ethical person I've ever met in my entire life. I have no idea who his clients are."
Mr. Giuliani said through his spokeswoman, Sunny Mindel, that he was also unaware of Mr. Powers's clients, even though Mr. Powers's relationship with the Jets is well known. Mr. Powers, when asked how much he talks about his business with Mr. Giuliani, replied, "Zero."
What, then, does Mr. Powers do for his clients?
The Guggenheim describes Mr. Powers's role as sounding board and general strategist. Last year, Mr. Powers also helped the museum put together its presentation to the City Economic Development Corporation asking that the museum be given the right to develop its new headquarters on three East River piers.
"This was something we'd never done before," said Laurie Beckelman, the museum's deputy director for special projects. "So we thought it would be helpful to have someone who understands how the city works, and who could advise us."
Ms. Beckelman, a former chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission under both Mr. Giuliani and Mayor David N. Dinkins, said that much of Mr. Powers's advice was practical.
"What I've done with him is say, 'This is the way I'm proposing to do it, these are my bullet points. Is there anything you think I should add?' " Ms. Beckelman said.
GNYHA Ventures, in contrast, describes Mr. Powers's role as more of a go-between for attracting business partners. For example, Mr. Powers recently introduced Mr. Perlman, the executive vice president of GNYHA, to another of his clients, a technology company. Mr. Perlman had been looking for a partner to help him develop a new GNYHA business, babypressconference.com, a hospital amenity that allows new parents to introduce their newborns to family and friends live over the Internet.
"He had the right people from the company at the table, all set up with an agenda," Mr. Perlman said. "I think he's basically taken the time to recreate himself as a business consultant rather than just leveraging his former relationships."
Mr. Bloomberg described yet another role for Mr. Powers, that of general counselor. "I do rely on him for his judgment," Mr. Bloomberg said. "He's a smart, honest guy. Everything he says I think is well reasoned. And he's not a mean guy; he's just a nice guy that's smart. And he's got a lot of restraints."
Mr. Powers would not say specifically that he is talking to Mr. Bloomberg about his possible mayoral bid, other than to say that he is advising him on "certain things" but that "I don't consider myself a political consultant, nor do I intend to be a political consultant to any campaign."
Although the Bloomberg company has hired a lobbyist in an effort to get tax breaks from the city for a new headquarters on the site of the old Alexander's store in Midtown, company representatives said Mr. Powers was not a part of that process.
Jay Cross, the president of Jets Development, the subsidiary that is looking for a new home for the football team, said that he relies on Mr. Powers to decode the arcane world of development in New York City, and that he also leans on his reputation. "He's credible within the community where we are trying to make this project happen," Mr. Cross said.
Another executive at one of the companies that Mr. Powers advises described a more amorphous role, similar to that played by Mr. Rubenstein. In essence, the executive said, $5,000 or $10,000 a month is not a lot of money for a large company to have Mr. Powers as an insurance policy should there be trouble with City Hall, or some other government agency, later on.
"You have a guy around who's smart," said the executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "Rubenstein is on our payroll, too. If I ever do need someone, I can call Howard. And I think Peter serves exactly the same role."
The larger question is whether Mr. Powers will have staying power beyond the tenure of Mr. Giuliani, whose term is up on Dec. 31, 2001.
"Will he survive past the mayor?" Mr. Rubenstein said. "Peter Powers will survive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter J. Powers, a longtime friend of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani who was a first deputy mayor, now runs a consulting firm. He says that his company, Powers Global Strategies, gives advice to businesses but does not lobby government officials. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Many of Mr. Powers's clients have hundreds of millions of dollars in business before City Hall. His customers include the Jets; Bloomberg, the financial information company; Pfizer, the drug company; and the Guggenheim Museum. (Steve Berman/The New York Times); (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (66%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (66%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (66%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (66%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (66%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (66%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (66%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (66%); PFIZER INC (54%); NEW YORK JETS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); ZONING (74%); LAWYERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); APPROVALS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



717 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: COUNCIL APPROVES A LONG-TERM PLAN FOR CITY GARBAGE

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
After years of planning and politicking, New York City took its first formal step yesterday into a future after the Fresh Kills Landfill, when the City Council overwhelmingly approved a long-term plan to deal with the city's daily mountain of refuse through at least the opening decades of the new century.
Fresh Kills, in Staten Island, once the most trash-deluged spot in the nation, is to close next year. The new plan is essentially a blueprint for trying to live without it, through a system of transfer stations that will send the city's residential garbage out of state. 
 But the replacement package, a $6 billion network of stations, barges, trucks and trains, is also for some a moral document, because it finally commits the city -- on paper and through force of law -- to abandon a policy many historians and residents have come to see as a betrayal of Staten Island. Fresh Kills was opened with a solemn promise to borough residents that the dump would be no more than a stopgap. That was more than 50 years ago.
"This is an act of moral responsibility," said Stephen J. Fiala, a Republican councilman from Staten Island, in an emotional statement late Tuesday after the Council's Environmental Protection Committee voted to approve the measure.
Politics also played a role, and the closing of Fresh Kills is a testament to the influence of the Staten Island borough president, Guy V. Molinari, a Republican and longtime supporter of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki.
The waste management plan, which passed by a 45-to-1 vote, with one abstention, also marks a number of new beginnings for the city, and some lawmakers warned of potential disasters.
To make the system work, a huge new barge-to-rail transfer station in Linden, N.J., will have to be built. The plant will require at least four years to build, as well as the support of Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey, who has warned that the possibility of even one scrap of paper falling into New Jersey waters would give her reason to deny a permit.
An amendment, added only this week to the final draft, would require the city's Department of Sanitation, which now mostly handles residential garbage, to study the city's vast amount of commercial waste, which is now mostly handled by private carting companies. Some lawmakers said the study would be the first step toward bringing commercial garbage under city jurisdiction.
At its core, the plan also presents a return to an older style of sanitation management that predates the Fresh Kills dump, giving local control to each of the city's five boroughs. Because so many local politicians and residents were concerned that their district or neighborhood would somehow become the next Fresh Kills -- a central depository or transfer station for the whole city -- the plan gives each borough a guarantee that it will handle no trash but its own, at its own transfer stations.
Some of the stations already exist and would require retrofitting, like the one in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. Others would have to be built. Staten Island's station, for example, would be built on part of the site of the current landfill.
Some lawmakers, even as they voted for the plan, expressed concerns that the city was committing itself to a path of least political resistance that may come back to haunt residents or lawmakers.
"We keep pushing this problem away, hoping it will go away," said John D. Sabini, a Democratic councilman from Queens. Past generations of New Yorkers mostly dealt with their own trash. Under the new plan, Mr. Sabini said, a booming New York is paying to make its trash go away, and people elsewhere are, for now, willing partners.
"We're relying on the good graces of people in other states to take our garbage," Mr. Sabini said. "Those good graces won't be there forever."
Other experts in sanitation policy said the great significance of the bill, which is technically a series of major amendments to a 10-year waste management plan passed by the city in 1992, was that it could be done at all. As late as the mid-1990's, city sanitation officials said that Fresh Kills could be closed no sooner than perhaps 2008 or 2010.
Mayor Giuliani and Governor Pataki then announced in May 1996 that Fresh Kills would close by the end of 2001. That deadline created an overwhelming pressure. The city's daily total of about 13,000 tons of garbage, most of which was going to Fresh Kills, would have to go somewhere else. In the interim, the city has been gradually reducing the use of Fresh Kills. Currently, about 3,000 tons a day is disposed of there.
"The history of solid-waste management in New York suggests that change only comes with a crisis looming," said Eric A. Goldstein, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private conservation group.
As part of the city's interim plan, which will continue until the Linden plant and the other transfer stations in the boroughs are ready, trucks carry garbage to landfills and other sites in Virginia, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. It is not yet known what sites will be used under the long-term plan. The new plan would greatly reduce that truck traffic. A spokesman for Governor Whitman also mentioned the appeal of fewer trucks crossing the Hudson River.
Under the plan, the trash would be packed onto covered barges at the city's borough transfer stations, to be sent to Linden. Once there, it would be transferred into closed rail cars. Sanitation Department officials said the rail cars would take the trash to landfills or other sites.
Because both Mr. Pataki and Mr. Giuliani support the goal of closing Fresh Kills, Sanitation Department officials said the New York approvals were essentially accomplished.
In New Jersey, the Union County Board of Freeholders is expected to take up the plan for Linden as early as tonight, and while New York City officials said they believed that the plan would pass there as well, local residents opposed to the idea are expected to show up in force. If the plan is passed by the county, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection will then consider it.
One woman who came from Linden yesterday to witness the New York vote, Beatrice Bernzott, said she was organizing busloads of residents from Linden and surrounding communities to attend the Union County meeting to protest. Ms. Bernzott said that she tried to get people to come to the city and demonstrate against the plan, but that in her community, the disdain or fear of the city was simply too much to overcome.
"I couldn't bribe people to come to New York," she said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); APPROVALS (91%); LANDFILLS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MAYORS (78%); HISTORY (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



718 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Economics Driving an Expansion Of Hospitals Catering to Children

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Of all the things that New York hospitals have been up to in the last decade -- research, mergers and fights with managed-care companies -- erecting new buildings has not been among them.
The trend has been to pull back on space for inpatient care. Hospitals can ill afford to build new buildings because so much care now takes place outside them. Since 1980, 178 hospitals in the state have either closed, merged or been converted to other uses. 
 But there is one striking exception: hospitals devoted to the care of children.
Three hospitals in the New York City region are now building major children's hospitals. In the Bronx, Montefiore Medical Center's children's hospital is scheduled for completion next November. Westchester Medical Center plans to open its children's hospital in 2003. And New York Presbyterian Hospital broke ground this month for its new center next to its respected but dilapidated Babies and Children's Hospital in Washington Heights. New Jersey already has several children's hospitals of its own.
The expansion of hospitals that cater only to children is driven largely by straightforward and powerful economic realities. Such centers have a much easier time attracting philanthropic money than adult centers do, health care experts say. Further, Congress recently allocated extra money to cover some costs of training doctors in children's hospitals, and a federal program to insure needy children may help hospitals that serve the poor.
New York finally appears to be catching up with the enormous expansion of children's hospitals that has occurred nationwide in the last 15 years. Between 1993 and 1997, at least 70 percent of the nation's 175 medical centers devoted to children -- free-standing, independent centers, as well as those affiliated with large hospitals like the three under way in New York -- made major capital investments by building entire new centers or extensively revamping existing space.
Of the roughly $622 million being spent on capital projects at hospitals around New York State, 70 percent is being used to upgrade services for children.
The shift of children's care into specialized centers also signals that New York hospitals are at last facing the reality that they can no longer dabble in every area of care -- like pediatrics, heart surgery and neurology -- and expect to thrive financially. Increasingly, they are looking to jettison departments that are handling dwindling numbers of patients.
"Because of the current cost pressures, hospitals are focusing on what they do best and trimming off other services where there are other providers of them," said Jeannie Cross, vice president of the Healthcare Association of New York State, a trade group.
Pediatrics has been a tough business for adult hospitals in recent years. The average length of a child's hospital stay has declined about 7 percent in the last decade to roughly six days, largely because many chronic illnesses like asthma are now treated outside hospitals. The shorter stays have eroded revenues.
At the same time, the illnesses of the children who do stay in hospitals tend to be much more serious, in part because of advances in treating once-untreatable diseases like pediatric cancers. Those sicker children tend to stay in the hospital longer and require very specialized care. Decreased reimbursements from managed-care companies make providing this care all the more costly.
As a result, dozens of hospitals around New York State have eliminated or scaled back pediatric services. In the New York City region, pediatrics discharges fell 14 percent from 1995 to 1998, according to the latest figures available.
Continuum Health Partners, which runs Beth Israel Medical Center and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, is consolidating pediatric services this year, after 10 years during which pediatric admissions declined about 30 percent at Beth Israel. "We have to make some very intelligent decisions about what services we should be offering," said Peter A. Kelly, the system's chief operating officer.
Mr. Kelly said that the corporation would offer most of its pediatric services at St. Luke's hospital in Morningside Heights. Beth Israel, he said, would retain only a handful of pediatric beds on an adult floor. As for the new children's hospitals, Mr. Kelly said, "We would refer our children there enthusiastically."
The planned children's hospitals may therefore not lack for patients, and their focus and superior resources are very likely to result in higher-quality care, advocates say.
The ability of children's hospitals around the country to corner the market on pediatric care has caused Moody's Investors Service to give bonds for children's hospitals far better ratings than those for adult centers, said Lisa Martin, a senior credit officer at Moody's. While adult centers tend to break even or lose money, children's centers often have modest profit margins.
The hospitals will have pediatric specialists, rooms and equipment scaled to children's sizes and a sensitivity to the effect that a child's illness has on the entire family.
Patient rooms at the new 172-bed hospital at New York Presbyterian will have an elaborate outer space theme, with beds modeled after spacecraft. The rooms will be large enough for parents to sleep in comfortably. The 106-bed children's center at Montefiore -- which will also be decorated with a celestial theme -- will have miniature cassette players with children's tapes. At Westchester, which will offer 150 beds, architects have tried to make the hospital seem more like a mall, with a food court and stores.
All three are scrambling to poach high-end pediatric specialists from among the limited number at other hospitals around the country. "Children's hospitals simply devote more resources to get the best children's specialists," said Lawrence A. McAndrews, the president of the National Association of Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions.
The enthusiasm for building children's hospitals is largely a consequence of their success in attracting philanthropy. These hospitals are strikingly able to draw dollars, often from high-profile sources; the singer Paul Simon, for example, gave $1 million for the Montefiore center.
New York Presbyterian's new center will be known as Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Children's Hospital of New York, reflecting a gift of more than $55 million raised by employee donations. "It is very easy to get people focused on children," said John J. Mack, president and chief operating officer of the financial services company, who helped raise $3.5 million in 1994 for a new pediatric intensive-care unit.
In 1997, he was host of a cocktail party in the completed unit, so employees could see what they had paid for. Children battling cancer and newborns struggling for life made for many wet eyes in the room, Mr. Mack and others who were present recalled. It took only one year to raise the additional $55 million.
Children's centers also are getting some new government financing. Last year, Congress earmarked $285 million for free-standing children's hospitals to provide help in paying the enormous costs associated with training doctors, something adult centers have enjoyed for years through Medicare. The new hospitals in New York may not qualify for this money, however, because they are part of larger hospital systems.
In 1997, Congress approved a federal supplement for states to insure children who are too poor to afford commercial insurance but do not qualify for Medicaid, and states are now slowly creating their insurance programs. New York State has been far ahead of that curve; its health insurance program predates the federal one, and the state has already enrolled more than 550,000 children.
"I won't tell you we didn't have that in mind when we decided" to build the children's hospital, said Edward A. Stolzenberg, president of Westchester Medical Center.
But can New York sustain three hospitals devoted just to children, especially when there are several children's centers in New Jersey? Executives at all three hospitals say it can.
"I think we will all do fine," said Dr. Irwin Redlener, president of Montefiore's new children's hospital. "Philadelphia has three kids' hospitals. I personally believe we need another center in Brooklyn because the need here is so overwhelming."
While the centers will obviously compete with one another, each has a slightly different strategy. Montefiore has a large number of uninsured chronically ill and asthmatic children in its region, and a major portion of its pediatric business comes from its emergency room, where poor parents often come to seek primary care. Dr. Redlener says he views the new hospital as the hub of a greatly expanded primary care system with 250 pediatricians.
Parents like Janet Cruz, whose 7-year-old son, Mark Anthony, has been hospitalized 21 times since birth for asthma, craves pediatricians who are more accessible, since she and similar parents of limited means usually have to rely on clinics with limited hours. "This new pediatrician has hours Tuesday until 8, and that works for me," Ms. Cruz said of a doctor who is already associated with Montefiore's planned center.
At New York Presbyterian, executives are betting that the hospital's long tradition of specializing in children will continue to attract top-notch doctors and medical researchers. "Where we will stand unique is that the highest end of science will be cheek by jowl with clinical care," said Dr. Herbert Pardes, chief executive of the hospital. And Mr. Stolzenberg of the Westchester Medical Center said he would be happy if he could dominate the region north of New York City and south of Albany.
Relying on government programs has rarely been a profitable formula for hospitals serving mainly adults. And if children's hospitals follow the example of adult centers by creating managed-care plans and buying physician practices, they may find themselves equally in the red. But for now, they seem to be following a well-mapped path.
"Hospitals are focusing on centers of excellence to meet what the market values," said Ms. Cross of the Healthcare Association. "And the market values children."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darcella Delahaye playing with her baby Daysia in the neonatal unit at the Babies and Children's Hospital of New York Presbyterian Hospital. New York Presbyterian recently broke ground for a new children's center. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (56%); NEW YORK PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOSPITALS (93%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (93%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PEDIATRICS (89%); TRENDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (53%); 

PERSON: PETER A KELLY (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



719 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Plan For Nassau Is Approved

BYLINE: By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., Nov. 29

 BODY:
After a frantic day of argument and confusion over the size of a proposed tax increase, Nassau County officials agreed tonight on a fiscal rescue plan that allows one of the nation's wealthiest counties to avert financial ruin and -- at least for now -- prevent a state takeover of its day-to-day operations.
The plan, passed unanimously by the County Legislature shortly before midnight, includes an increase of 7.9 percent next year in the county portion of property taxes -- an additional $73 for the average household. And it calls for an additional 5 percent increase in each of the following three years, or about $57 a year for the average household, said Eric Naughton, acting director of the Legislature's Office of Budget Review. 
 The tax increases were a key sticking point in months of often chaotic negotiations among the Democratic and Republican leaders of the legislature; County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta, a Republican; and a state oversight board monitoring the county's efforts, whose leader was handpicked by Gov. George E. Pataki.
But the state board, known as the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, threatened to take over the county's finances if Mr. Gulotta and all 10 Democrats and 9 Republicans in the Legislature did not support the plan. After the Legislature grudgingly went along, at 11:30 p.m., the state board issued a statement from its chairman, Frank G. Zarb.
"While there are many management challenges still facing the county," the statement read, "this plan may avoid hard controls while NIFA continues to assist Nassau County in achieving long-term structural balance."
Still, the story of the county's fiscal mayhem in the midst of one of the nation's longest stretches of prosperity is far from over. The four-year plan approved tonight is, for the most part, merely a blueprint. Although it sets a 2001 budget, the proposals for the following three years could change, especially if a recession hits the region.
The debt-ridden county still must allow the state to monitor its finances and future budgets, and it must still make millions of dollars in spending cuts over the next four years. If that effort fails, and the county drifts back to the edge of bankruptcy, the state board can swoop in at any time and seize fiscal control from elected officials.
On Dec. 8, the board, at the direction of Mr. Zarb -- who is also the chairman of the group that runs the Nasdaq stock market -- is expected to accept the plan.
On the day that they expected to finally approve the plan, county officials were thrown into confusion today over the size of the property tax increase it would impose next year.
The Legislature had planned to vote at 1 p.m. to pass the plan, which it had worked out with Mr. Gulotta and the state board, unanimously.
But after waiting through the afternoon for Mr. Gulotta to make final calculations, the lawmakers said he told them that the 7.9 percent increase he had calculated in next year's county property taxes might be wrong. To make the budget work, he said, he thought he might need an 8.5 percent increase.
Mr. Gulotta's revision sent county officials back into negotiations.
But in the end, the tax increase for homeowners was found to be 7.9 percent after all.
"This is nowhere near the end of the process," said Richard M. Kessel, one of seven members of the state board. "It is the end of the beginning of the process. We made a step forward, but there are many steps left to take before Nassau County is on strong financial footing."
In stronger words, the often battling legislative leaders -- Judith A. Jacobs, the Democratic presiding officer, and Mr. Schmitt, the Republican minority leader -- said the plan fell far short of pleasing them or ruling out future budget problems.
Before the vote tonight, Ms. Jacobs said the plan was far better than any the county had seen in the last decade. But, she said, it left Democrats in her caucus feeling deflated. She said it relied too heavily on revenue that is not sure to materialize from year to year -- $6.6 million in a one-time source of revenue -- and could set the stage for future budget problems. Democrats had agreed to support the plan, she said, to prevent a state takeover.
"We still believe that the concerns we raised during the budget process will rear their head during the fiscal year," Ms. Jacobs said. "We do not kid ourselves."
Mr. Schmitt, who said he would immediately push to freeze wages and win contract concessions from government employees, and seek even further spending cuts in the months ahead, was even more critical. He accused the state board and Governor Pataki of "dictating policy" to the county's elected officials by insisting that lawmakers pass the plan unanimously. A spokesman for the governor rejected that charge.
"The governor made it very clear that he hoped the county leaders would reach a bipartisan consensus that would result in long-term reforms that protected the taxpayers and resulted in a more efficient government," said the spokesman, Michael F. McKeon. "How they got there was up to them, so long as it could pass muster with NIFA."
The political sparring began almost from the day in May when Mr. Pataki offered a state bailout of Nassau: a plan to give the county $100 million in aid, plus $5 million to revamp its antiquated tax assessment system in exchange for tens of millions of dollars in spending cuts or new revenues.
On Sept. 15, Mr. Gulotta proposed a 2001 budget with a 3.8 percent increase in county property taxes and hundreds of layoffs. But the Democratic majority changed the tax increase to 15.4 percent and scrapped the layoff plans. Mr. Gulotta vetoed the tax increase, instead proposing a rise of 7.9 percent.
In recent days, the state board offered to let the county dip into a projected $27 million to $40 million surplus next year to pay for what Democrats wanted: a $10 million rainy-day fund; the hiring back of 15 percent of the 120 employees who had left the Parks and the Public Works Departments; $665,000 to hire 10 deputy county attorneys; and $1 million for technological improvements in the county.
The Democrats had long opposed using projected surplus funds to pay for those items. But the state board and other independent fiscal monitors said the 2001 budget, including those projections, was solid. And the board stepped up its warnings that it could stage a takeover.
The board also insisted on 5 percent tax increases in 2002, 2003 and 2004, as the Republican lawmakers had initially suggested. That was more than the 3 percent increase Mr. Gulotta had sought in each of those years, but the board said the revenue would ensure the future contingency funds, lawmakers said.
Many in the county were left shaking their heads tonight, wondering how Nassau's attempts to right its financial ship will play out.
"This whole budget, if it is going to work, relies to a large degree on trust," said Chuck Cutolo, a counsel to the Democratic lawmakers. "And none of the events today have helped enhance that trust."
 
Main Features Of Fiscal Plan For County
 
TAXES -- The county portion of property taxes, 19 percent of residents' overall property tax bill, will rise by 7.9 percent in 2001. That is an annual increase of $73 for an average household, which now pays $1,050 a year. The long-term plan calls for those taxes to rise 5 percent, $57 a year for the average household, in each of the next three years.
 
SPENDING CUTS -- The $2.1 billion budget for 2001 includes $109 million in cuts. Further reductions are included in the plan for the three years after that: $13.8 million in 2002, $25 million in 2003 and $22.5 million in 2004, for expenses like supplies and equipment and contractual costs. A $14 million subsidy to Long Island Bus will go to $7 million in 2001 and $5 million in 2002. County officials plan to ask the state to pay the difference.
 
WORK FORCE REDUCTIONS -- A total of 69 nonunionized county employees will be laid off in 2001, but no further layoffs are projected. About 10 percent of the county work force, 800 employees (including 200 police officers), have agreed to retire early or accept severance incentives.
 
CONTINGENCY MONEY -- The county, at the direction of the state oversight board, will establish a $10 million rainy day fund for each of the four years. It is financed in the first year by $792 million to $796 million in sales tax revenue the county expects in 2000. The county expects that figure to grow by 3 percent each year.
 
STATE AID -- The county expects to get $100 million in state aid, plus $5 million to update its tax assessment system, in the next four years. In 2001, the county expects $25 million of that money as well as $88 million in savings, because the state is refinancing part of the county's $2.6 billion debt. The county owes millions of dollars in interest on old debt. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); FRANK G ZARB (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



720 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing;
BANK GRANT FOR BROOKLYN

BYLINE: By Terry Pristin 

 BODY:
Fleet bank has selected Brooklyn as one of four Northeastern communities that will receive an economic development grant, officials said yesterday. The $750,000 award will be used to help attract and stabilize businesses in Fort Greene, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Clinton Hill and will provide merchants and entrepreneurs with technical assistance, said Rena DeSisto, a Fleet spokeswoman. The grant is to be administered by Fulton First, which includes the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce and three community groups. The other communities receiving grants are Buffalo, New Haven and Lowell, Mass., Ms. DeSisto said. Terry Pristin 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FLEET BANK BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLEET BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (84%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (84%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000



721 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1873 words

HEADLINE: Steel City, Slovakia;
An American Giant Places a Bet in Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: KOSICE, Slovakia

 BODY:
Lukas Cervienka vividly remembers the day the giant VSZ steel mill here ran out of iron.
It was January 1999, and Mr. Cervienka was sitting in a control room overlooking the automated ladles that pour 180 tons of molten metal at a time. The company was so broke that suppliers were refusing to deliver raw materials, and the company's creditors had hired a new president to prevent a complete collapse. 
 "He came in here and asked why we weren't doing anything," recalled Mr. Cervienka, head of a unit that maintains machinery. "I told him we didn't have any iron to work with. We didn't have anything to do."
Today, two years later, the mill has been rescued from the brink of bankruptcy. And it now has a new owner: U.S. Steel, a unit of the USX Corporation.
At $450 million, the acquisition of VSZ is a small deal in financial terms. But as a measure of transformation it is a big event as much for U.S. Steel as for this struggling nation.
For Slovakia, a small and impoverished country that split off from the Czech Republic in 1993, the steel mill here is the biggest enterprise and its most visible victim of post-Communist corporate abuse. The rescue is crucial to re-establishing Slovakia's credibility with the West and repairing a national image damaged by corruption and crony capitalism.
"This is a sign that the people of this country want to live in today's world," said Zdenko Trebula, the mayor of Kosice. "If the gentlemen from U.S. Steel decided to invest their money here, it means they trusted this place."
For U.S. Steel, this is the first major expansion after more than two decades of relentless contraction. The Slovak mill will account for one-quarter of U.S. Steel's entire production capacity. With more than 17,000 workers, the operations here employ twice as many people as U.S. Steel's biggest American sites. But while American steelworkers earn $35 to $42 an hour, wages here are about $2 an hour.
"If you talk about consolidation of the steel industry in the U.S., you are talking about cuts," said John Goodish, who will be chief executive of U.S. Steel Kosice. "Our strategy here is expansion and maximizing production. It is something no other American steel company has done."
Both company and country are making a calculated bet about globalization. U.S. Steel executives say they are convinced that Central Europe, with its low wages and increasingly pro-business policies, is becoming a major manufacturing center for companies from General Motors to General Electric. Slovak leaders are convinced that the only path to prosperity involves adopting western practices on everything from monetary policy to accounting practices and bankruptcy law.
For Slovaks, the last few years have been grueling. Unemployment averages about 20 percent across the country; 23 percent in Kosice. Real wages, adjusted for inflation, have declined more than 8 percent this year.
Here in Kosice, a picturesque city of 300,000, the municipal government is so short of money that it is trying to sell public forest land and buildings. Young people graduating from vocational school or the university set their sights on leaving, and many parents encourage them.
By all accounts, the two-year-old government of Prime Minister Mikulas Dzurinda has pushed through crucial economic changes. It has deregulated old monopolies, greatly improved the country's global credit ratings and revived exports.
Foreign investment has picked up. The Whirlpool Corporation has an appliance factory here and is now expanding. Volkswagen has a big factory in Bratislava, the capital, and BMW is considering building a car assembly plant not far from Kosice.
And Moody's, the credit-rating agency, praised Slovakia earlier this month, noting that it had "greatly improved" its budget and trade balances as well as its competitiveness.
The European Union, which shunned Slovakia as a potential member two years ago, now lists it as a candidate for entry just behind front-runners like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
"It is a very, very big success," said Robert Prega, an economist in Bratislava for Raiffeisen Zentralbank of Austria.
But the risks are substantial and few institutions embody them as vividly as the VSZ steel mill here in Kosice.
After being privatized, the company came under the control of Alexandr Rezes, a close associate of former Prime Minister Vladimir Meciar. Under Mr. Rezes, VSZ squandered hundreds of millions of dollars on dubious investments: sports teams, real estate, banks, a travel agency, a bankrupt steel company in Hungary, a never-finished iron-ore processing factory in Ukraine and even a small airline.
Mr. Rezes also split the company into a baffling maze of more than 120 affiliated companies. He installed his son as a top executive in the holding company and other relatives elsewhere.
The spree ended in late 1998, when the company abruptly ran out of cash and defaulted on $450 million worth of loans. Part of the problem stemmed from a worldwide decline in steel prices.
But the biggest reasons were internal. The company had been buying its equipment and raw materials at inflated prices from exclusive suppliers; many of its customers had not paid their bills for three years. Most of the investments were worthless and unrecoverable.
Gabriel Eichler, a former executive at Bank of America who was recruited by VSZ's creditors to take over as chief executive, found the company in chaos at the end of 1998.
"I walked into a company that had no money," said Mr. Eichler, an American citizen who was born in Slovakia. "There were no financial controls, no consolidated figures. It took us about three months to tell the banks what we had."
It was hardly a unique situation. In the neighboring Czech Republic, once praised as a fearless example of free-market reforms, all the major banks and many of the industrial conglomerates were driven into the ground by shoddy practices and outright corruption.
Indeed, Czechs and Slovaks both use the word "tunneling" to describe the process by which major companies are systematically drained of their assets. Tunneling is the economic equivalent of termite infestation: a maze of subterranean deals that leaves little more than a rickety shell.
Two of the Czech Republic's biggest steel companies -- Nova Hut and Witcowice -- are virtually bankrupt and are being put through a government-run restructuring. In Poland, the Katowice steel plant has more than $570 million in debt and is still losing money. Earlier this month, a British steel company, the Corus Group, pulled out of talks to acquire a one-third stake.
Here in Kosice, neither Mr. Rezes nor other former executives at VSZ have been charged with wrongdoing. The Slovak government has temporarily taken Mr. Rezes's passport, because it is investigating allegations that he used company money to build a fortress-like villa.
But Mr. Eichler said it was fruitless to chase the former management. "It just isn't worth going after the past," he said. "We have to look to the future."
Mr. Eichler and Mr. Goodish say there is ample evidence of tunneling. VSZ was buying much of its equipment and raw materials at inflated prices under exclusive contracts from favored suppliers. Mr. Eichler quickly abolished the exclusive contracts, which reduced input costs by 20 percent in 1999.
Mr. Rezes could not be reached for comment. But even the most loyal supporters of VSZ are angry about his tenure.
"This was a company that used to invest millions of crowns annually in new equipment," said Mr. Trebula, the mayor. "In the 1980's, it was rated very highly."
Mr. Trebula, like most people here, says he does not know whether Mr. Rezes acted improperly. But he said Slovakia had been plagued by business executives who drained their own companies.
"The idea of owning something here is that I should get my money out of it, build a big house, buy a Mercedes, take my vacation in Tahiti or my winters in Thailand," he said. "They didn't realize that to own a company means you have to take care of it, develop it, invest in it."
Why would U.S. Steel want to buy a troubled company like VSZ? The two companies already had a three-year-old tin-plating joint venture, which both companies say proved profitable and successful. By the time VSZ defaulted on its loans, U.S. Steel executives were actively looking to acquire steel plants in Europe.
"Our customers were all becoming multinational, and they were telling us, 'We want you to be multinational, too, so we can get the same level of service everywhere,' " Mr. Goodish said.
Western European steel producers were too expensive. Factories in Poland, Romania and the Czech Republic either could not produce the more sophisticated and profitable forms of coated steel or they needed intensive modernization.
For all its financial difficulties, VSZ's physical plant was in fairly good shape. It had been built in the 1960's and was younger than many of its rivals. The old regime had been fairly generous about investing in new equipment.
"It is 100 percent continuous-casting with three blast furnaces," Mr. Goodish said. "It's very similar to our machines in Pittsburgh."
Indeed, that view is echoed in Prague, where Czech officials are desperately looking for investors to rescue their nearly bankrupt steel producers. "We were a little surprised by U.S. Steel's move," said one Czech government official with a wince of regret. "But the fact is, VSZ is a very good plant."
U.S. Steel, pounded by cheap foreign rivals and chronic overcapacity in the United States, spent more than two decades shrinking to a shadow of its former self. Since 1980, it has reduced its work force to 20,000 from about 83,000. It abandoned the idea of being a supermarket for steel, a producer of everything from steel sheet to girders and nails. It sold or closed many lines of business, cutting its annual production capacity from more than 30 million tons of steel in 1982 to 12.8 million tons.
The sprawling complex here will add the capacity to make 4.7 million tons of steel a year. U.S. Steel is paying $60 million in cash and issuing $325 million in new bonds to VSZ's creditors. Depending on the new company's performance over the next two years, it will pay up to $75 million more.
On top of that, U.S. Steel has pledged to invest $700 million over the next 10 years. And in a big concession to local anxieties, the company has pledged not to reduce the work force except through attrition for the next several years.
Mr. Goodish faces trying circumstances. A team of nearly 50 U.S. Steel executives has been working elbow-to-elbow here in a pair of cramped offices. Though Kosice has no English-language schools, American executives have decided to enroll their children in local schools and bring in translators to help.
VSZ is still paying about $60 a ton for coal, while the market price is $45 to $50, and the company is almost certainly overpaying for other purchases as well.
Most workers are relieved about the takeover, but are not sure where things go from here. "It won't get better," said one worker as he left the mill on a recent Friday afternoon. "Better already happened."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Nov. 30 about the effect of United States Steel's purchase of a mill in Slovakia misspelled the name of a Czech company that exemplifies "tunneling," a process by which companies in Slovakia and the Czech Republic are drained of their assets. It is Vitkovice, not Witcowice.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers, inset, at the VSZ steel mill in Kosice, Slovakia, inspect a sample. John Goodish, at right, who will lead the company, unveiled the venture's sign on Friday. He said the focus would be on expansion. (Agence France-Presse); (Julie Denesha for The New York Times); The VSZ steel mill in Slovakia was rescued from the brink of bankruptcy by U.S. Steel, which bought it for $450 million. The company was hurt by poor management and crony capitalism. (Julie Denesha for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Rebuilding a Foundation"
Slovakia, a small presence in the global steel market, is counting on the takeover of its biggest enterprise by U.S. Steel to help revive its struggling economy.
 
1. China
'99 PRODUCTION: 123.7 million metric tons
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 2%
 
2. United States
'99 PRODUCTION: 97.3
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 9
 
3. Japan
'99 PRODUCTION: 94.2
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 14
 
4. Russia
'99 PRODUCTION: 51.5
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 18
 
5. Germany
'99 PRODUCTION: 42.1
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 12
 
7. Ukraine
'99 PRODUCTION: 27.5
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 16
 
19. Poland
'99 PRODUCTION: 8.8
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 26
 
24. Czech Republic
'99 PRODUCTION: 5.6
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 11
 
31. Slovakia
'99 PRODUCTION: 3.6
CHANGE IN PRODUCTION THIS YEAR*: 8
 
*Through October
(The New York Times Source: International Iron and Steel Institute)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Down but Not Out"
Slovakia, even more than other Central and East European countries, needs to overcome high unemployment and other economic hurdles before it can hope to gain membership in the European Union.
 
Czech Republic
ECONOMIC OUTPUT PER PERSON, '99 ESTIMATES*: $11,700
UNEMPLOYMENT IN '99: 8.8%
 
Slovakia
ECONOMIC OUTPUT PER PERSON, '99 ESTIMATES*: 8,500
UNEMPLOYMENT IN '99: 16.2
 
Hungary
ECONOMIC OUTPUT PER PERSON, '99 ESTIMATES*: 7,800
UNEMPLOYMENT IN '99: 7.1
 
Poland
ECONOMIC OUTPUT PER PERSON, '99 ESTIMATES*: 7,200
UNEMPLOYMENT IN '99: 12.0
 
Ukraine
ECONOMIC OUTPUT PER PERSON, '99 ESTIMATES*: 2,200
UNEMPLOYMENT IN '99: 4.3
 
*Adjusted for equivalent buying power
(Source: Economy.com)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (84%); MRO (NYSE) (69%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: SLOVAKIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); UKRAINE (92%); POLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: USX-US STEEL GROUP INC UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (84%); MARATHON OIL CORP (69%); U S STEEL KOSICE SRO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: USX-US STEEL GROUP INC INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SLOVAKIA; KOSICE (SLOVAKIA) ; SLOVAKIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); UKRAINE (92%); POLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; FINANCES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS IRON & STEEL MILLS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ETHICS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L US STEEL KOSICE (96%); LUKAS CERVIENKA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000

 
