

401 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3114 words

HEADLINE: Here Illegally, Working Hard and Paying Taxes

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS 

 BODY:
It is 5:30 in the evening as Adriana makes her way to work against a flow of people streaming out of the lattice of downtown stores and office towers here. She punches a time card, dons a uniform and sets out to clean her first bathroom of the night. 
 A few miles away, Ana arrives at a suburban Target store at 10 p.m. to clean the in-house restaurant for the next day's shoppers. At 5:30 the next morning, Emilio starts his rounds at the changing rooms at a suburban department store. A half-hour later, Polo rushes to clean the showers and locker room at a university here before the early birds in the pool finish their morning swim.
Adriana, 27; Ana, 27; Emilio, 48; and Polo, 52, are all illegal immigrants, denizens of one of the most easily overlooked corners of the nation's labor force and almost universally ignored by the workers, shoppers and students they clean up after. 
 ''It's like you are invisible,'' Adriana said.
 Invisible, perhaps, but not hidden. In contrast to the typical image of an illegal immigrant -- paid in cash, working under the table for small-scale labor contractors on a California farm or a suburban construction site -- a majority now work for mainstream companies, not fly-by-night operators, and are hired and paid like any other American worker. 
 Polo -- who, like all the workers named in this article, agreed to be interviewed only if his full identity was protected -- is employed by a subsidiary of ABM Industries, a publicly traded company based in San Francisco with 73,000 workers across the country and annual revenues of $2.6 billion. Emilio works for the Kimco Corporation, a large private company with 5,000 employees in 30 states and sales of about $100 million.
 More than half of the estimated seven million immigrants toiling illegally in the United States get a regular paycheck every week or two, experts say. At the end of the year they receive a W-2 form. Come April 15, many file income tax returns using special ID numbers issued by the Internal Revenue Service so foreigners can pay taxes. Some even get a refund check in the mail.
 And they are now present in low-skilled jobs across the country. Illegal immigrants account for 12 percent of workers in food preparation occupations, for instance, according to an analysis of census data by the Pew Hispanic Center. In total, they account for an estimated one in 20 workers in the United States.
 The building maintenance industry -- a highly competitive business where the company with the lowest labor costs tends to win the contract -- has welcomed them with open arms. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, more than a quarter of a million illegal immigrants are janitors, 350,000 are maids and housekeepers and 300,000 are groundskeepers. 
 The janitorial industry has been transformed in recent years as a handful of companies have consolidated by taking over hundreds of small local operators. That activity has gone hand-in-hand with the steady advance of immigrants, legal and illegal -- almost all of them Hispanic -- who have been drawn into what was once an overwhelmingly American-born work force.
 Adriana works for Harvard Maintenance, a New York contractor that has some 3,700 janitors and cleans landmarks like Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium. ABM Industries, Polo's employer, is the biggest contractor in Minneapolis and St. Paul, with about 35 percent of the market and a portfolio of high-profile customers that include the Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport and some downtown buildings. 
 ABM is a coast-to-coast force in the business, responsible for cleaning a virtual Who's Who of the nation's best-known buildings, at one time even including the World Trade Center in New York, where several illegal janitors died on 9/11. 
 Despite a murky legal status, ABM hired Polo just as it would hire any other worker. His wife and daughter -- who already worked at the university -- recommended him to their supervisor, who collected Polo's application and paperwork, gave him an ABM uniform and put him on the payroll. He makes $11.75 an hour, has health insurance and gets two weeks of paid vacation every year. 
 The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 made it a crime for companies to knowingly hire illegal immigrants. Employers say they do their utmost to comply.
 ''We don't ever knowingly hire undocumented workers,'' said Amy Polakow, a spokeswoman for Kimco. 
 Harvard Maintenance issued a statement: ''While we are dismayed that an employee allegedly has submitted fraudulent documentation,'' it said, ''we screen all new hires and make sure they provide proper paperwork.''

Buying the Documents
 A written statement from ABM said that ''if an individual were found to have presented falsified work authorization documents to gain employment, their employment would be terminated.'' 
 Still, in many cities it would be hard to put together a cleaning crew without resorting to an illegal work force.
 Adriana used to work for ABM too, she said. But last year Harvard Maintenance, a rival contractor that entered the Minneapolis market two years ago, won the contract to clean her building. Adriana guesses that except for a couple of legal immigrants from Ecuador and a couple of Somalis, the rest of the three dozen or so janitors on her shift are illegal immigrants.
 And when the contractor changed, the work force in her building did not. ''All the workers,'' Adriana said, ''are the same ones.'' 
 Illegal immigrants operate in a kind of parallel employment universe, structured in many ways like the legal job market but with its own rules and procedures.
 To begin with, acquiring the necessary documentation to work is a routine transaction these days. In Minneapolis, one only has to mill about for a few minutes in a Kmart parking lot known to immigrants and a young Guatemalan with a Patron tequila hat will approach on his bike and quietly offer to help.
 A set of Polaroid photos can be purchased for $10 at the photo outlet- sporting goods store up the street -- a quick snap against a white backdrop tucked among the soccer balls and jerseys of national squads from all over the world. 
 The documents themselves cost $110. Within two hours of having received the photos, the Guatemalan is cycling back into the parking lot to make the drop of the ID package. It includes a green card with the customer's photo and somebody's fingerprints, along with a Social Security card, for which the number was plucked out of thin air. 
 Some illegal immigrants do not even need the green card. Until the late 1990's, Mexican illegal immigrants typically arrived in Minnesota with their birth certificate and Mexican voting card, which could be used to obtain a legal Minnesota state ID. 
 But getting a Social Security number could be a little more complicated in the old days. Lily, 38, another janitor cleaning a building downtown, knew no one in Minneapolis when she arrived illegally from Guatemala 14 years ago. So when a neighbor said she needed papers, she called the smuggler who brought her across the border at his home in Mexico.
 He asked her to make up a nine-digit number, which she did by combining the date she left Guatemala and the date she arrived in the United States two months later. She sent him some photos and $75 and received her fake papers by return mail. 
 Documents in hand, getting a job is straightforward. A common first step for new immigrants is to apply to a temporary work agency for the first job. But as immigrant communities have grown, new arrivals have been able to tap into networks of friends, relatives and former neighbors to help them navigate the United States and jump straight into a permanent job.
 When Adriana and her sister arrived in Minneapolis from Mexico in 1998, their mother was waiting for them. She paid the smuggling fee of $1,700 per person and helped Adriana into her first job at the building where she worked and where she knew the supervisor well.
 ''You know, it's the chain,'' Adriana said. ''I just got a job in my building for a cousin.'' 
 In some industries with many illegal immigrants, like construction, farming and landscaping, employers often turn to labor contractors to assemble crews of workers -- transferring onto them the responsibility of checking the paperwork. That helps establish deniability in case of an immigration raid.
 By contrast, the big building maintenance contractors do much of the hiring themselves. But some still distance themselves from the job market itself by delegating hiring to supervisors in individual buildings -- often immigrants themselves -- who will receive the job applications, help fill in official documents and copy supporting papers.
 Adriana said she never had to step into ABM's offices, which are across the Mississippi River from downtown Minneapolis. She said that the supervisor knew she did not have proper papers.

Cheaper Labor
 Starting about 30 years ago, as illegal immigration began to swell, building maintenance contractors in big immigrant hubs like Los Angeles started hiring the new immigrant workers as part of a broader effort to drive down labor costs. Unions for janitors fell apart as landlords shifted to cheaper nonunion contractors to clean their buildings. Wages fell and many American-born workers left the industry. 
 Between 1970 and 2000, the share of Hispanic immigrants among janitors in Los Angeles jumped from 10 percent to more than 60 percent, according to a forthcoming book by Ruth Milkman, a sociologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, titled ''L.A. Story: Work, Immigration and Unionism in America's Second City.'' (Russell Sage Foundation, August 2006.) 
 The pattern repeated itself as immigrants spread throughout the rest of the country. By 2000, Hispanic immigrants made up nearly 1 in 5 janitors in the United States, according to Ms. Milkman's research, up from fewer than 1 in 20 in 1980. 
 When the Service Employees International Union started to reorganize the industry in the late 1990's, it adapted its approach in some cities to appeal to illegal workers. For instance, union contracts in Los Angeles include clauses instructing employers to contact the union if an immigration official ''appears on or near the premises'' and barring the employers from revealing a worker's name or address to immigration authorities.
 Building maintenance contractors and those who contract their services underscore their efforts to keep illegal immigrants off the payroll. But beyond that they are reluctant to discuss the presence of illegal immigrants in the janitorial work force.
 In a statement, Target pointed out that its stores were cleaned by outside contractors. ''As in the past,'' it read, ''if we find any illegal behavior by our vendor, we will immediately terminate their contract.''
 Mr. Mitchell said ABM had ''put in place policies, procedures and ongoing managerial training for compliance with immigration law.'' Harvard Maintenance's statement added that ''we believe our screening programs currently in place are among the best in the building services industry.'' 
 For all these efforts, however, it is remarkably easy for illegal immigrants to get a regular, above-board job. 
 The law requires employers to make workers fill out I-9 ''employment eligibility'' forms and provide documents to prove they are legally entitled to work. 
 But the employers benefit from one large loophole: they are not expected to distinguish between a fake ID and the real thing. To work, illegal immigrants do not need to come up with masterpieces of ID fraud, only something that looks plausible. ''To bring a criminal prosecution we need to show an employer knowingly hired an illegal immigrant,'' said Dean Boyd, a spokesman at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the branch of the Department of Homeland Security that enforces immigration rules. '' 'Knowingly' is the key word.''Yet the standard of plausibility is not particularly tight. ''Some of these documents are so visibly wrong that you don't need to be an expert on what a Social Security card looks like,'' said Michael Mahdesian, chairman of the board of Servicon Systems, a private contractor that cleans aerospace and defense facilities as well as office buildings in California, Arizona and New Mexico.
 Mr. Mahdesian said Servicon was more careful than other contractors -- forced by the nature of its clients in the military industry to make more rigorous checks to keep illegal immigrants out. But he said that each time Servicon took over a cleaning contract in a new office building, it found that 25 percent to 30 percent of the workers it inherited from the previous contractor were working illegally, and had to let them go. 
 ''Most companies in this industry doing commercial office buildings take the view that it is not their job to be the immigration service,'' Mr. Mahdesian said.
 Companies have little to fear. The penalty for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants includes up to six months in jail -- or up to five years in particularly egregious cases -- and fines that range from $275 to $11,000 for each worker. Yet fines are typically negotiated down, and employers are almost always let off the hook. Only 46 people were convicted in 2004 for hiring illegal immigrants; the annual number has been roughly the same for the last decade.
 In a rare raid, about 50 illegal workers -- including a handful of ABM janitors -- were arrested at the Minneapolis-St. Paul airport in 2002, according to Tim Counts, a spokesman for the Minnesota office of immigration and customs enforcement. With one exception -- the Wok & Roll Chinese restaurant in the airport terminal -- no charges were brought against the companies that hired them, Mr. Counts said.

Pushing for Unionization
 Despite becoming a fixture of the labor market, illegal immigrants remain vulnerable at work. Wages declined as illegal immigrants entered the janitorial labor pool. Janitors' median earnings fell by 3 percent in real terms between 1983 and 2002, when the Labor Department changed the definitions of building maintenance jobs and other occupations. 
 Meanwhile, earnings across all occupations rose by 8 percent, after accounting for inflation. Though unionization has helped push janitors wages back up in many cities, they remain lower in markets with many illegal immigrants in the labor force. 
 In New York City, janitors cleaning commercial buildings make $19 an hour. Mike Fishman, president of the Service Employees International Union's local in New York, points out that the union never lost ground in the city, and it is still unusual to find illegal immigrants cleaning office buildings there.
 In Southern California, by contrast, unions were decimated in the 1980's, and only started recovering in the late 1990's. According to Mike Garcia, president of the union's main local in the state, Southern California's unionized janitors earn between $8.50 and $11 an hour. 
 Unscrupulous employers still victimize illegal workers frequently. Veronica, a 39-year old illegal immigrant from Mexico, had been working for a temporary employment agency for about a year, crating boxes of beauty products for Aveda, when the agency fired her, then rehired her under a different Social Security number to avoid paying her for the vacation time she had earned. 
 ''They don't want you to gain seniority,'' she said.
 When Adriana started her cleaning job downtown, she said, the supervisor recorded her on the payroll under a different name. But rather than change the entry onABM's payroll, he asked her to buy a set of documents with the new name -- forcing her to live for years with two identities, one for work and one for everything else.
 Adriana only managed to recover her real name by tagging it on as a middle name when Harvard took over the contract at her building and she reapplied for her job. Now, the name on her state ID is similar to the one on her Social Security card and paycheck.
 Many get caught using bad Social Security numbers and lose their jobs. The Social Security Administration sends ''no match'' letters every year to about eight million workers and about 130,000 employers. Though the letter warns employers not to fire workers because of the mismatch, many do. 
 Lily, the Guatemalan immigrant, used to clean the offices of General Mills in suburban Minneapolis for a building contractor named Aramark. Earlier this year, she said, the company fired her and other workers, stating that it had received a letter from the government claiming the workers' Social Security numbers were wrong.
 ''They wanted to get rid of the people the supervisor didn't like,'' Lily said.
 In a statement, Aramark said it ''fully complies with federal laws and guidelines regarding employment eligibility, and has procedures in place to confirm employment eligibility of our employees. Should we discover that an employee does not have proper documentation, their employment with Aramark is terminated.'' 
 It added that it did not fire workers simply on receipt of a ''no match'' letter, but gave workers up to 90 days to fix the problem. 
 The one thing that illegal immigrants did not have to worry about, at least until recently, was the immigration police.
 But life has been getting tougher. Minnesota, for instance, tightened its requirements to award state ID's or driver's licenses. 
 And, lately, immigration authorities have been pursuing illegal immigrants more aggressively. Since April, there have been high-profile raids at several work sites across the country, including IFCO Systems, a pallet and shipping container maker, where agents apprehended nearly 1,200 illegal workers and some managers. 
 Since Oct. 1, 2005, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has arrested more than 2,100 people in ''work site enforcement investigations,'' compared with 1,145 for the entire previous fiscal year and 845 in fiscal 2004. It is also bringing more serious charges -- such as harboring illegal immigrants and money-laundering of illicit profits -- against employers who hire them.
 Agents have also been sweeping through Minneapolis and other cities, seizing immigrants who had been served with deportation orders and expelling them from the country. 
 But immigrants adapt. Pablo Tapia, the leader of a church-based community group, has been holding tutorials for immigrants on how to avoid being deported. One rule is ''don't open the door'' if immigration authorities come knocking. Another is ''stay calm and do not run'' if agents raid the workplace.
 ''Just keep working,'' Mr. Tapia recommends. ''If you run, it can be used against you in court.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Adriana works for Harvard Maintenance cleaning buildings. She said most of the co-workers on her shift were illegal immigrants, too.
Polo, an illegal immigrant, cleans buildings in Minneapolis for ABM Industries. He earns $11.75 an hour, with health and vacation benefits. (Photographs by Allen Brisson-Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A14)Chart: ''Laboring in the U.S.''A snapshot of the work force.Illegal immigrants: CooksIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 436% OF TOTAL: 20%Illegal immigrants: Construction laborersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 400% OF TOTAL: 25Illegal immigrants: Maids and housekeepingIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 342% OF TOTAL: 22Illegal immigrants: Grounds maintenance workersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 299% OF TOTAL: 25Illegal immigrants: CarpentersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 277% OF TOTAL: 14Illegal immigrants: Janitors and building cleanersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 262% OF TOTAL: 11%Illegal immigrants: Agricultural workersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 247% OF TOTAL: 29Illegal immigrants: Painters, construction and maintenanceIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 167% OF TOTAL: 22Illegal immigrants: CashiersIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 158% OF TOTAL: 5Illegal immigrants: Driver/sales workers and truck driversIN THOUSANDS, 2005: 151% OF TOTAL: 4Weekly earnings*JANITORS1985: $4362005: $417ALL WORKERS1985: $6372005: $665The janitorial work force in the U.S.1970HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 2.4%NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 62.4%NON-HISPANIC BLACKS: 22.8%1980HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 4.6NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 64.9NON-HISPANIC BLACKS: 19.01990HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 11.8NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 57.3NON-HISPANIC BLACKS: 17.82000HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS: 18.4NON-HISPANIC WHITES: 50.0NON-HISPANIC BLACKS: 14.8*data are median figures for full-time workers in 2006 dollars(Sources by Pew Hispanic Center [ranking]
Bureau of Labor Statistics [earnings]
 L.A. Story" by Ruth Milkman. [work force])(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (70%); TAX LAW (65%); INCOME TAX (63%); CENSUS (50%) Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Foreign Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Law and Legislation; Taxation; Labor

COMPANY: KIMCO CORP (65%); ABM INDUSTRIES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: ABM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (53%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



402 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: In Topsy-Turvy City, Settling Down on Shaky Ground 

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
This house will not stay still. Floorboards might as well be skateboards in the old Brooklyn brownstone that is the setting for ''Satellites,'' the tough-minded, softhearted and very likable new play by Diana Son that opened last night at the Public Theater. 
 Thanks to the ingenuity of the set designer Mark Wendland, rooms slide sideways, backward and forward in this study of big-city identity crises from the author of ''Stop Kiss.'' A seemingly solid structure splits again and again into a house divided, as distinctions between outdoors and indoors, between public and private, melt and dissolve. For Nina (Sandra Oh) and Miles (Kevin Carroll), a couple who have just moved from Manhattan with their newborn daughter, home has all the stability of a runaway taxi.
Urban flux indeed. The kinetic set for ''Satellites'' isn't just the latest example of a designer strutting his virtuosity. Ms. Son is examining a world in which traditional ethnic, social, economic and sexual boundaries have become so porous that people are never quite sure who or where they are at any given moment. It feels absolutely right that the ground should shift so literally beneath the feet of Ms. Son's wandering, wondering characters. 
 It has been eight years since Ms. Son enchanted New Yorkers with ''Stop Kiss'' -- also at the Public and also featuring Ms. Oh and Mr. Carroll -- a tale of a young woman's falling in love with that dangerous and beguiling stranger known as New York City. ''Satellites,'' directed with shrewdness and compassion by the much-employed Michael Greif, lacks the compositional balance and elegance of ''Stop Kiss.'' In the last quarter of the new play's 90 minutes, you can sense its author groping frantically for an exit from the labyrinth she has built.
 Yet as a portrayal of a disordered American social order struggling to rearrange itself, ''Satellites'' is both deeper and broader than its predecessor. And I'm happy to report that Ms. Son has not abandoned the New York she evokes with such a pungent mix of affection and terror. In a way (and I know the parallel sounds bizarre), she is to her generation of urbanites what the young Neil Simon was to his: a chronicler of the singular pleasures and perils of life in this city. And if ''Stop Kiss'' was her ''Barefoot in the Park,'' then ''Satellites'' is her ''Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' an evocation of life defined and confined by real estate. 
 For Ms. Son's characters have shifted their focus from the vicissitudes of falling in love to those of starting a family. They no longer inhabit small apartments, and the streets and parks and clubs that young newcomers to the city use as their extended living rooms. Nina and Miles's existence is firmly centered on that big house they have just purchased. 
 The setting, a seedy Brooklyn neighborhood on the cusp of a middle-class invasion, is appropriate for a family that is itself a melange of cultural elements. Nina, an architect, is of Korean descent; Miles, a recently unemployed dot-com producer, is African-American, though he was adopted as an infant by a white family. 
 They have chosen to move into a predominantly black neighborhood because they want their daughter, Hannah, to have a sense of her racial heritage. For the same reason Nina hires a Korean nanny, Mrs. Chae (Satya Lee).
 It soon becomes clear, though, that Miles and Nina are not entirely at ease with the people close at hand who share their ethnic backgrounds. Nor is their new neighborhood, thick with the ghosts of its varied past, at ease with these chic arrivals. A rock is hurled through their window on their first night in Brooklyn.
 Friction develops quickly between Mrs. Chae and Nina, who suspects that the nanny disapproves of her marriage to a black man. Miles instinctively draws away from Reggie (Ron Cephas Jones), a slick, self-styled entrepreneur who grew up in the neighborhood and is determined to have a hand in the renovation of the house.
 The arrival of Eric (Clarke Thorell), Miles's ne'er-do-well (and white) brother, who has been traveling the globe and longs for a ready-made family of his own, only adds to the tension. So does the presence of Nina's patient but weary partner, Kit (Johanna Day), who has been bearing much of their firm's burden alone.
 The marvel of ''Satellites,'' for its first hour at least, is how effortlessly each of these elements echoes and enhances the others. There are no clean lines between the psychological and the social. And while Ms. Son, a veteran of television (she is a writer-producer on ''Law & Order: Criminal Intent''), creates dialogue with sitcom zing and sting, she also explores language's limitations in dealing with a world in transition.
 The combustibility of the cocktail of race and class that life has become means that people must speak carefully. The pauses that split sentences often suggest that words appropriate to the situations here have yet to be invented. Even lullabies sung to Hannah are discarded in midsong, because none of the traditional ones seem to fit.
 Ms. Son sets up her central, multi-pronged conflicts so adroitly that it's only toward the end that you realize that the plot that holds them together is a makeshift affair. The play's concluding Big Moment confrontations, in which people spell out grievances that are already fully evident, are jarringly artificial. And the hopeful final scene feels like a hasty, if generous, postscript.
 None of this undermines the fluid work of the cast members, whose characters exist in a convincing state of explosive prickliness throughout. Ms. Oh, who since ''Stop Kiss'' has become a popular actress in film (''Sideways'') and television (''Grey's Anatomy''), is an ideal central conduit for the play's aching ambivalence: a spiky amalgam of frustration and empathy, bright optimism and gloomy resignation. It's a gutsy, physically charged portrait that never coasts on charm or begs for the audience's affection.
 Similarly, for all the effervescence of its performances and honed wit of its dialogue, ''Satellites'' pulses throughout with a bass line of fear. It's the throbbing awareness, common to adults approaching midlife, that every choice made now could be disastrously wrong, an apprehension amplified by the birth of a child. In the first scene Nina starts to sing ''Rockabye Baby'' to Hannah, then stops abruptly. The prospect of a bough breaking and a baby falling suddenly seems all too possible. 

Satellites

By Diana Son; directed by Michael Greif; sets by Mark Wendland; costumes by Miranda Hoffman; lighting by Kenneth Posner; composer, Michael Friedman; sound by Walter Trarbach and Tony Smolenski IV; production stage manager, Martha Donaldson. Presented by the Public Theater, Oskar Eustis, artistic director; Mara Manus, executive director. At the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village; (212) 239-6200. Through July 2. Running time: 1 hours, 40 minutes.

WITH: Ron Brice (Walter), Kevin Carroll (Miles), Johanna Day (Kit), Ron Cephas Jones (Reggie), Satya Lee (Mrs. Chae), Sandra Oh (Nina) and Clarke Thorell (Eric).


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Kevin Carroll, Sandra Oh and Clarke Thorell in Diana Son's play ''Satellites,'' about a young couple setting up house in Brooklyn. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Public Theater (NYC)

PERSON: SANDRA OH (89%) Ben Brantley; Diana Son; Michael Greif; Kevin Carroll; Sandra Oh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



403 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Election

 BODY:
Something unusual is going on in Mexico -- a normal presidential election. Mexico's relatively new democratic institutions are not being strained, and are not at risk. There are three major candidates, and while they have been doing a lot of mudslinging, they offer voters a real ideological choice. 
 Mexico lived through 71 years of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, which fell in 2000 to an opposition candidate, Vicente Fox, who proved to be a lackluster president. In other new democracies in Eastern Europe and Latin America, voters at this point have tended to grow nostalgic for dictatorship or eager to find an outsider who promises revolution. The first democratic election after dictatorship is always joyous; the second one can be deadly.
Not so in Mexico. Roberto Madrazo, the PRI candidate, is far back. One front-runner is Felipe Calderon, who was Mr. Fox's energy minister. He is a respectable model of the Latin American colorless, Harvard-educated, pro-business candidate. He wants to modernize Mexico and make it more globally competitive, thereby creating more jobs. Mr. Calderon advocates opening Mexico's poorly run and underfinanced energy sector to foreign investment. It is an unpopular idea, but sorely needed. 
 His neck-and-neck opponent is Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who has been unfairly compared, by the Calderon campaign and many others, to President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. 
 Mr. Lopez Obrador, who was recently mayor of Mexico City, is a leftist, but he is no threat to the United States, nor to Mexico. He has no ambitions to foment revolution and stresses the importance of good relations with Washington. He accepts a market economy, but would attempt to make it fairer to Mexico's poor. Mr. Lopez Obrador has said that he would like to use government spending to create jobs and raise the minimum wage -- now $4.50 a day. He wants to renegotiate the agricultural chapters of the North American Free Trade Agreement to benefit Mexico's small farmers.
 His financial management of Mexico City was relatively responsible. But Mr. Lopez Obrador ran a political machine that mirrored the PRI's machine nationwide and was not a fan of transparency in government. He reacted to a million-person march against crime by calling it an attempt by dark forces to attack him. 
 Americans should want a Mexican president who can maintain stability and produce jobs that can keep potential emigrants at home. That is also what Mexicans say they want. Mr. Calderon and Mr. Lopez Obrador propose very different, completely legitimate, approaches to this task.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Editorials; Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (89%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (73%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%) Roberto Madrazo; Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador; Felipe Calderon

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



404 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2360 words

HEADLINE: Company Ties Not Always Noted In Push to Tighten U.S. Security 

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18 

 BODY:
When the storm erupted several months ago over plans by a United Arab Emirates-based company to take over management of a half-dozen American port terminals, one voice resonated in Washington.
 Stephen E. Flynn, a retired Coast Guard commander who is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, repeatedly told lawmakers and reporters that domestic ports were so vulnerable that terrorists could easily sneak a radioactive device into something as innocuous as a shipment of sneakers. And he offered a solution: a cargo inspection system in Hong Kong that scans every container, instead of the fraction now checked in the United States.
''The top priority should be working with the overseas terminal operators and putting in place a system that is being piloted in Hong Kong,'' Mr. Flynn told a House panel in March. ''We have to view every container as a Trojan horse.'' 
 Homeland Security Department officials and lawmakers had been aware of the innovative port security approach in Hong Kong, but they had been reluctant to embrace it, convinced that screening every container at a port would be impractical. Mr. Flynn's forceful advocacy has changed that view. 
 But as Democrats and Republicans rushed to act on his advice, one fact usually remained in the background: From 2003 until 2005, he was a paid consultant to the Science Applications International Corporation, or S.A.I.C., the San Diego company that manufactured the system and could make hundreds of millions of dollars if its port security solution is adopted worldwide.
 In one Congressional appearance this year, Mr. Flynn had acknowledged some involvement in the Hong Kong project, saying, ''I've been a leader of the side putting it together.'' Four publications this year also mentioned his ties to the company.
 But in most of his public comments this year -- in at least three television interviews, two other appearances before Congress, opinion pieces in The New York Times and Far Eastern Economic Review and in nearly two dozen newspaper or magazine articles -- Mr. Flynn's connection to S.A.I.C. was not noted. Even Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, who was briefed by Mr. Flynn during a tour of the Hong Kong port, said he did not initially know of Mr. Flynn's involvement with the company.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Flynn said that in news interviews and Congressional testimony he had been an advocate for better screening at ports and never endorsed S.A.I.C.'s products specifically. He declined to disclose how much he was paid by the company, but said it represented less than 5 percent of his annual income. 
 ''If S.A.I.C. sold millions or billions of dollars of equipment, I don't make anything,'' Mr. Flynn added, saying that he sometimes worked for the company as little as one day a month. ''I am willing to champion it because I think it will make a qualitative difference in improving container security.''

From Public to Private
 As a growing number of Department of Homeland Security employees exit the agency, the practice of former officials joining prestigious research or academic institutions while working on behalf of for-profit companies is not uncommon in Washington.
 C. Stewart Verdery Jr., the former assistant secretary for border and transportation policy, frequently testifies before Congress, identifying himself as an adjunct fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington and a partner at a lobbying firm. Among other clients, he represents Lockheed Martin, the giant military and domestic security contractor, which is now competing for an estimated $2 billion Homeland Security Department border security deal.
 Richard A. Falkenrath, the former White House deputy homeland security adviser, is a senior fellow at Brookings Institution. He has a second job as a managing director at Civitas Group, which advises corporations and investors on the domestic security market.
 And Frank J. Cilluffo, a former special assistant to President Bush on domestic security matters, also straddles both worlds. He delivers his views to Congress as the director of the Homeland Security Policy Institute at George Washington University while serving as a partner for a Virginia consulting firm whose clients include the Saflink Corporation, a maker of identity confirmation software to combat terrorism. 
 Mr. Cilluffo, Mr. Falkenrath and Mr. Verdery said they worked to make sure there were no conflicts between their various roles. ''I never would let the two collide in any way, shape or form,'' Mr. Cilluffo said.
 Mr. Flynn's reputation for integrity in his field is unrivaled, several industry representatives said, adding that he would never advocate for something he did not believe in, regardless of any consulting deal.
 Lisa Shields, a spokeswoman for the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said the institution recently examined Mr. Flynn's work for S.A.I.C. and concluded that he ''has abided by all council rules and the conflict of interest policy.''
 But Michael Greenberger, director of the Center for Health and Homeland Security at the University of Maryland and a professor of law, said that academics who consult for companies in their area of expertise risked compromising their impartiality. At a minimum, they should always disclose the relationship, even if it has ended.
 ''Discovering this involvement after the fact is more troublesome than if you were more upfront in disclosing it,'' Mr. Greenberger said.
 Mr. Flynn, 45, joined the efforts to help S.A.I.C. devise new domestic security products in April 2002, less than a month after he retired from the Coast Guard, a division of the Department of Homeland Security, and was appointed to an endowed chair for national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. He was paid to participate in a company brainstorming session on port security devices.
 The Coast Guard commander was a natural choice for S.A.I.C., which has spent $4.5 million on lobbyists since 2001 and whose political action committee and employees donated another $1 million in the last federal election cycle, much of it to lawmakers who oversee domestic security matters. 
 With a doctorate from Tufts University in international politics and vast knowledge of port security matters, Mr. Flynn was well known in the field and routinely was called upon by top Homeland Security Department officials for his advice.
 In scholarly articles published before and after the 2001 attacks, he repeatedly warned that the nation needed to move quickly to better secure the roughly 25,000 ship containers that arrive in the United States each day. S.A.I.C. had come up with an approach that it was convinced could do just that, piecing together two types of inspection devices -- one that checked containers for radioactive objects and a second, X-ray-like machine that could identify dense objects, which might be a radioactive material the first machine missed because a terrorist tried to shield the weapon with lead. 
 The potential market for such an integrated system was enormous. Scanning all the cargo in Hong Kong would require about 50 of these systems, said Terry G. Gibson, an S.A.I.C. vice president leading the sales effort. At $2.5 million per system, the total cost would be $125 million, Mr. Gibson said.
 If Congress demanded that all United States-bound cargo undergo such a check, the market worldwide could reach 1,000 to 2,000 systems, or $2.5 billion to $5 billion in sales, he said, a cost that would be paid by port terminal operators, not necessarily governments.
 ''Reducing the risk of a weapon of mass destruction being shipped into the United States, that is what this is about,'' Mr. Gibson said, acknowledging: ''We want to make money. We want to sell our devices.''
 Operating the system could cost even more: ports would have to set aside space for suspicious cargo to be double-checked, and hundreds of inspectors would have to be hired to review the scanner images.
 S.A.I.C. is not the only manufacturer of such machines, but it was the first to integrate the technologies and it had the only device, one company official said, that could efficiently scan a container as it passes through a major port on a truck at a speed fast enough to avoid bottlenecks.
 But some security experts have questioned S.A.I.C.'s plan, given the high costs and often cloudy images the X-ray-like machine produces. 
 ''Overinvesting in countering one tactic when terrorists could easily employ another is dangerously myopic,'' said James Jay Carafano, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group, who has not served as a consultant to private sector companies in the domestic security field.
 Many unknowns also remained, as even though hundreds of thousands of images of ship containers passing through Hong Kong were collected, no one was actually examining them to look for weapons since the S.A.I.C.-backed effort was a demonstration project, not a fully operation security system.
 Mr. Flynn himself had once had his own doubts, writing in a January 2002 article in Foreign Affairs magazine that ''even with the assistance of new high-tech sensors, inspectors have nowhere near the amount of time, space or manpower to inspect all the cargo arriving.''
 But Mr. Flynn said he was prepared to be proven wrong. He signed a contract to be a part-time consultant for the company in 2003 and soon set up a series of meetings with senior domestic security officials, including Tom Ridge, then the secretary of homeland security.

A New Era of Contractors
 The decision to sign up with S.A.I.C., Mr. Flynn said Sunday, was compelled by the government's post-9/11 reliance on contractors to conceive of and put in place antiterrorism initiatives, tasks that in an earlier era might have been handled by civil servants. It is part of the reason, he said, so many former department executives are taking jobs with contractors.
 Mr. Flynn said he urged Mr. Ridge to send a team to Hong Kong to evaluate the company's project and if impressed, to ''agree to meet with the C.E.O.'s of the world's largest marine terminal operators to discuss a timetable for their deploying'' the system globally, according to a written summary of the October 2004 briefing for Mr. Ridge. The summary identified Mr. Flynn as a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and made no mention of his role as a paid S.A.I.C. consultant, although Mr. Flynn said it was something he acknowledged verbally.
 He also said he routinely informed officials about his relationship with the company. Staff members for Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Senator Norm Coleman, Republican of Minnesota, both said Mr. Flynn disclosed this past work before briefing the senators on the project. 
 But Robert C. Bonner, the former commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, who had the most regular contact with Mr. Flynn, said he could not remember being told of the relationship.
 Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, the leading proponent in the House of Mr. Flynn's port security plan, said he had not been told of his ties to the company.
 An academic paper Mr. Flynn co-wrote in 2005 with a Stanford professor that evaluated the S.A.I.C. approach also made no mention of his ties to the company. After being asked about the matter last week, Lawrence M. Wein, the co-author, said he and Mr. Flynn had decided to add a disclosure of the prior consulting work before publishing it in an industry journal.

Project Gets Final Push
 Mr. Flynn's consulting contract with S.A.I.C. ended in 2005, he said. But in February 2006, when news broke of the plan by DP World of Dubai to manage American port terminals, his phone started to ring with calls from reporters. Mr. Flynn said he saw this as an opportunity -- given that he had already ended the consulting deal -- to give an important final push to the Hong Kong pilot project, which he feared the Homeland Security Department, despite his initial efforts, was about to let end without any federal endorsement. 
 ''It was clear that the pilot was going to end prematurely without any substantive consideration by the U.S. government of its potential,'' he said. ''I decided that I would need to become the pilot's leading champion.''
 Soon, Mr. Flynn's endorsement of the Hong Kong screening approach began to be picked up by others.
 ''Port security under the Bush administration is full of holes,'' Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, said at a news conference. ''One hundred percent of the cargo containers going into a terminal in Hong Kong are inspected, while only about 5 percent of the containers entering the United States are screened. Who thinks that's a good idea?''
 By April, with Democrats and Republicans citing Mr. Flynn, a Senate panel passed a bill that would mandate ''as soon as practicable and possible'' that any container headed to the United States undergo an inspection with an S.A.I.C.-like system. The House passed a measure ordering tests of the technology. 
 While Congress has not yet reached a consensus on the language, domestic security officials say they are already seriously considering more universal scanning of cargo. In April, Mr. Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, toured the Hong Kong terminals where the S.A.I.C. system was being tested, and discussed the technology with Mr. Flynn immediately afterward.
 Mr. Chertoff said he had not been aware when he was invited to visit the port that Mr. Flynn had been working with S.A.I.C., though Mr. Flynn said department officials had been told. Though Mr. Chertoff said he would now give Mr. Flynn's endorsement less weight, he added that his agency was moving ahead with the idea.
 ''I think it is something we are going to want to take to the next stage,'' Mr. Chertoff said.

Homeland Security Inc.
 Second of a two-part series examining how former domestic security officials have benefited from their connections to the federal agencies they once helped supervise. The first article is online:
 nytimes.com/washington


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen E. Flynn has advocated a port security system that can check every container bound for the United States for radioactive threats. (Photo by Michael Temchine for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Chart/Diagram: ''Scanning Cargo''The Homeland Security Department is reviewing a screening system designed to help protect American ports from terrorist attacks. The system, being tested in Hong Kong, uses three scanning devices to check for radiation sources, such as dirty bombs, and other weapons in shipping containers.1. A truck passes through a gamma ray detector, which produces an image (similar to an X-ray) of what is inside the cargo container.2. Video cameras and an optical character recognition device capture the numbers on the container.3. A radiation monitor scans the container. The combined data from the three scanning systems is displayed on a computer screen and stored for later use.Note: Scanning devices not shown to scale.(Source by Science Applications International Corp.)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (89%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); INSPECTIONS (70%); TESTIMONY (64%) Terrorism; Surveys and Series; Ethics; Ports; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; Terrorism

COMPANY: SAIC INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%)

TICKER: SAI (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (79%) Eric Lipton; Stephen E Flynn; Michael (Sec) Chertoff

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



405 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Competes With China for Vietnam's Allegiance

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam 

 BODY:
With the fastest growth in East Asia after China and a capitalist game plan that is attracting global investment, Communist Vietnam is emerging as a regional economic power as it moves steadily from rice fields to factories.
 And with the wounds of war all but healed, Washington is paying attention.
Trade talks between House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, and his Vietnamese counterpart turned into a lovefest here recently, choreographed by the hosts to show their affection for America. 
 ''At last we're having dinner together,'' said Nguyen Van An, the leader of the Vietnamese National Assembly, as he hugged the speaker and presented a copy of a letter from Ho Chi Minh to President Harry S. Truman appealing for American help against the French. ''We should have met 60 years ago.'' 
 Mr. Hastert's presence in April was part of a larger dance that has since starred Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld as visitors, and will feature President Bush when he attends the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting here this fall. Vietnam's leaders have made plain they want the United States on their side for equilibrium against China, a longtime occupier. Vietnam, though an ideological ally of Beijing, fears an expanding Chinese sphere of influence and being reduced to an economic appendage by China, its northern neighbor.
 It has fought wars against China, most recently in 1979. But now, relations have ''never been so good,'' said Ton Nu Thi Ninh, the vice chairwoman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the National Assembly.
 ''But that doesn't mean they're perfect,'' she added. 
 The Bush administration, also concerned about Beijing's designs in Asia, is happy to provide a counterweight. 
 ''Everyone knows we have to keep a fine balance,'' Ms. Ninh said. Vietnam will take overtures from each side in stride, she said, declining to ''lean over'' toward Washington or ''bow'' to Beijing.
 The competition between Beijing and Washington for Vietnam's allegiance sometimes seems toe-to-toe. 
 This month, Mr. Rumsfeld announced small but significant steps to deepen military cooperation between the United States and Vietnam, including the possibility that Vietnam would buy American military spare parts. Two Vietnamese military officers were to enroll at a military language school in San Antonio this month for English classes financed by the Pentagon's International Military Education and Training program that is open to friendly countries. 
 China's minister of defense, Cao Gangchuan, visited Hanoi in April on the eve of a National Party Congress that chose Nguyen Tan Dung as prime minister and Nguyen Minh Triet as president. 
 Mr. Dung and Mr. Triet support economic change but are political diehards who favor the Chinese model: economic transition to open markets with firm Communist Party political control, analysts say. 
 China and the United States are rapidly increasing their economic presence here. Chinese and American investments in Vietnam last year were about equal -- a little more than $2 billion each, according to government figures. 
 Two-way trade between the United States and Vietnam rose to nearly $8 billion last year -- from less than $1 billion in 2001 -- most of it shrimp, clothes and shoes exports for American shoppers. 
 Not to be outdone, the Chinese commerce minister, Bo Xilai, said in a visit here this month that trade between Vietnam and China could reach $10 billion in 2006, an increase of almost 40 percent from 2005. 
 In one of the most significant new American investments, Intel chose Ho Chi Minh City as the site of a $600 million microchip plant that will begin production in 2008. With Vietnam's membership in the World Trade Organization expected in the fall, scouts for American banks, and insurance and telecommunications companies are knocking on doors here, poised to invest. 
 And in motorbike-crazy Vietnam, where city streets are clogged with cheap Chinese models, Harley-Davidson, the all-American company, has sensed an opportunity. It won concessions in recent trade talks to have tariffs on heavy cycles lifted, and plans to open a showroom soon. 
 China's investments have been mostly in raw materials like coal and bauxite, and in building roads and rails that will connect the long coast of Vietnam to southern China. 
 Signs of Vietnam's economic exuberance abound.
 One of the nation's best known new entrepreneurs, Ly Qui Trung, 40, opened a noodle soup store three years ago and now has 33 outlets with distinctive decor and polite service, all modeled on McDonald's. 
 Called Pho 24, after the national dish of noodles, beef, spices and greens served in an aromatic broth, the stores earn their franchisees up to $40,000 a year, Mr. Trung says, a handsome income in Vietnam. 
 ''I use the method of McDonald's: everything is standardized, everything is uniform,'' he said. ''It's nine steps from taking the order to serving the food to saying goodbye.'' . 
 He expects to open 100 stores in the next two years, including a restaurant in southern China next month. 
 In Vinh Yen district on the outskirts of Hanoi, Chen Guo Hui, a textile engineer from Southern China, runs a yarn manufacturing factory with 600 employees, many of whom left the surrounding farms to work as machine operators.
 ''Chinese factories are coming here more and more -- labor costs are 25 to 30 percent lower than in China,'' he said. At his plant, workers were paid an average of $60 a month. 
 Vietnam has arrived as an economic player in Asia after years of slow and fitful decision making by the governing Politburo.
 The government finally passed an enterprise act in 2000 that permitted the formation of small- and medium-size businesses. Major industries like power and telephones remain dominated by state enterprises. 
 The gradual approach has won praise from the World Bank, which says growth has come fairly equitably, creating fewer divisions between rich and poor than in some developing countries. 
 ''It is rare for a country to graduate from being poor to middle income in 15 years,'' said Klaus Rohland, the World Bank's country director in Vietnam. 
 In 1993, Vietnam's per capita income was $180. It climbed to $640 for 2005 and is expected to reach $1,000 by 2010, when Vietnam will no longer qualify for concessionary loans from the World Bank, he said. In a clear difference with many developing countries, especially in Africa, Vietnam has eschewed heavy reliance on foreign aid; less than 15 percent of public spending for the last number of years came from aid, the bank said. 
 Relations between Vietnam and the United States have improved in the last several years but remain troubled by uneasiness in Washington over human rights, and by the opposition of many Vietnamese-Americans to the Hanoi government.
 The Vietnamese government remains irritated by Washington's refusal to consider compensation for victims of Agent Orange, the toxic herbicide the United States used in the Vietnam War. Still, the anti-Americanism that can be found elsewhere, especially over the Iraq war, is less evident here.
 Ms. Ninh singled out the welcome for Mr. Gates, who was mobbed here in April, as an example of friendlier attitudes. ''Vietnamese like Bill Gates because he earned his money with his brain, and got it with his determination,'' she said. ''He is a role model young people can emulate.'' 
 His last message, she noted, was to say, ''I'm coming back.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cycles fill streets in Ho Chi Minh City and elsewhere in Vietnam, where Harley-Davidson plans a showroom. (Photo by Christine Kokot/Deutsche Presse-Agentur)
 Bill Gates was treated like royalty in Hanoi in April. House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld also visited. (Photo by Hoan Dinh Nam/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); CHOREOGRAPHY (71%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; Foreign Investments; Privatization

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%) Jane Perlez; J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill (William H) Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); VIETNAM (92%) Vietnam; China; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



406 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 258 words

 BODY:

ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators, a forecast of economic activity, is expected to fall 0.5 percent for May, a sharper decline than the 0.1 percent drop in April. (Thursday.) 


ANY CLUES? -- The Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank president, Jack Guynn, is to speak about the economic outlook of the United States, in Naples, Fla., a week before the next two-day meeting of the interest-rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. (Monday.)

MEASURING REAL ESTATE -- Housing starts for May are expected to be 1.87 million, up from 1.85 million in April. (Tuesday.)

DURABLE GOODS -- Orders for durable goods are expected to be 0.5 percent higher for May, a sharp improvement over April, when such orders dropped by 4.8 percent compared with the previous month. (Friday.)

WHERE THE FOOD IS -- Kroger, the biggest grocery store chain in the United States, will release its quarterly earnings report on Tuesday, and hold its annual shareholders' meeting on Thursday.

OVERNIGHT -- Investors who attach importance to the fortunes of delivery services as economic indicators will be paying close attention when FedEx, the No. 2 courier after U.P.S., reports its quarterly earnings. Morgan Stanley will issue its earnings report the same day. (Wednesday.)

MORE REPORTS -- Rite Aid, the drugstore chain, above, expects to report profit for its latest quarter of 3 cents a share, compared with a nickel a share in the same period a year ago. Oracle, the software maker, is scheduled to report earnings on the same day. (Thursday.)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); REAL ESTATE (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



407 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health; DIVE IN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1993 words

HEADLINE: Everyone Into the Water

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
FOR at least one day a year, the overwhelmingly white world of swimming gets turned on its ear in places like Asphalt Green, a fitness center tucked away in the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Hundreds of children swarm the pool deck, goggled faces of every hue popping out of the water after triumphantly finishing a lap at the Big Swim, the culmination of a program that fights doggedly to close the sport's racial gap. That divide, born of a slavery-era myth that blacks cannot swim, has created a world where black children drown at rates up to five times higher than white children, and has left competitive swimming bereft of minorities.
 ''We are putting our finger in one small hole in the dam,'' said Carol Tweedy, executive director of the Asphalt Green, as she stood among the children, their parents howling encouragement from the bleachers.
Closing the gap is not particularly easy. The factors that fostered it -- race, class, tradition, culture -- are stubborn, and the solutions are expensive. But the cost of not closing it is measured in lives lost. As public beaches and pools open for the summer, the issue is being addressed on both local and national levels. 
 A handful of programs like the one in Asphalt Green -- which has taught New York City public school second graders to swim for 11 years at no charge -- have popped up around the country. This year, USA Swimming, which is in charge of developing the sport as well as the Olympic team, began offering financial support for things like free classes. In April, the organization sent Maritza Correia, the first black woman to make an American Olympic team, in 2004, to Asphalt Green's Big Swim. Earlier this year, USA Swimming also hired its first diversity specialist, John Cruzat, an African-American who grew up in Chicago and most recently worked for the Urban League.
 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, drowning is the second-leading cause of accidental death among children; and black children and teenagers, from ages 5 to 19, are 2.3 times more likely to drown than whites in this age group. For children 10 to 14, the rate is five times higher. Dr. Christine Branche, director of the C.D.C.'s National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, said that there was not enough data to draw conclusions about the rate of drowning for Hispanic children, although data on other minorities show higher drowning rates over all than for white children. 
 The statistics have not drawn widespread concern, even though the C.D.C. and Safe Kids Worldwide, whose mission is to prevent accidental childhood injuries, have publicized the need for water safety.
 Mr. Cruzat said he considered it USA Swimming's obligation to address the problem. ''We don't need to wait until it's a national health issue,'' he said.
 Dr. Branche, who has been studying drowning data for 15 years, said, ''The differences by race have been very consistent over the years,'' adding that ''few people feel comfortable reporting these differences.''
 It is difficult to quantify swimming ability, but one study by the centers, published in 2003, asked adults if they could swim across a 25-yard pool. It found that 62 percent of the African-Americans surveyed said that they had limited swimming skills, while only 32 percent of the white respondents said the same.
 For black children, the barriers to swimming are high. 
 Although studies have shown that many Africans were avid swimmers when they were brought over as slaves, most slaves born in the United States were not allowed to learn to swim because it was a means of escape. That created generations of nonswimmers and spawned the myth that African-Americans could not swim. Though widely discredited, a 1969 study titled ''The Negro and Learning to Swim: The Buoyancy Problem Related to Reported Biological Difference,'' was printed in The Journal of Negro Education and fed the stereotype. 
 The problem was compounded by segregation, which kept blacks out of many pools and beaches.
 The challenge of attracting minority swimmers today, Mr. Cruzat said, is largely economic. In 2004, nearly 28 percent of minority children in the United States lived below the poverty level, according to the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. And swimming lessons are often expensive. At Asphalt Green, a beginning class costs $27 for each hourlong session, and the classes last 13 to 15 weeks.
 Chlorine, a staple in public pools, is also an issue. Dr. Jeanine Downie, a dermatologist in Montclair, N.J., who is African-American and was a competitive swimmer, said that chlorine can turn black skin ''ashy'' and cause processed hair, popular among black women, to break off or discolor.
 ''The hair issue is a big one,'' Dr. Downie said. ''African-American women are always saying: 'What am I going to do with my hair? I can't get it wet.' ''
 Dr. Downie said that she told patients simply to wash their hair immediately and use moisturizer on their skin to prevent any damage. Other barriers go beyond practical considerations. If parents do not know how to swim, they can see less value in their children's learning. Parents often react to the drowning numbers by urging their children to stay away from the water, thereby passing on the fear.
 James A. Donaldson, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at the historically black Howard University, said that when he grew up in the 1940's and 50's in a small north Florida town, where the pools were segregated, black children swam unsupervised in rivers and lakes. When two children drowned, he said, many parents told their children not to swim. ''They were just trying to protect them,'' Dr. Donaldson said. 
 The College of Arts and Sciences requires its students to learn to swim before they can graduate, Dr. Donaldson said, a rule that has been in place at least since the early 40's. ''We're hoping that there will be large numbers of Howard graduates going into the middle class whose children will grow up with a different perspective, but whether or not we're doing enough, I'm not really sure,'' he added. 
 Howard, one of only three historically black colleges with a scholarship swim team, is also planning to start a community swimming program in its pool next year, directed by its swim coach, Shaffers Rawlings.''We need to get the awareness out there, that this is a sport you can do in college, this is a sport you can do in the Olympics,'' Mr. Rawlings said. ''Kids just aren't exposed to it.''
 Jim Ellis has been trying to draw black children to swimming since 1971, when he founded a program at the Marcus Foster indoor pool in the Philadelphia Department of Recreation, setting in motion a career that will be portrayed in a movie to be released in December. Mr. Ellis hopes the film, ''P.D.R.,'' will help raise the profile of swimming for black children, but he said the main issue was access to pools. The largest concentration of minorities is in urban areas, where pools are difficult to build and costly to run. 
 ''We can sell swimming, but we have to have the facilities,'' Mr. Ellis said. ''It's not like tennis or track or basketball. You can put up a hoop anywhere. You have to have nice facilities, so kids have a good experience.''
 Mr. Ellis said his program once had 150 mostly African-American children on competitive teams in the 90's, but reduced city financing made it difficult to maintain the pool and retain staff members. That has forced him to pare the program to 35 to 40 children. Many winters, Mr. Ellis said, the pool has had no heat. Still, several of his swimmers have competed in Olympic trials. 
 Mr. Ellis participated in earlier efforts to promote diversity, including coaching at a USA Swimming camp for minority children, but the camp was discontinued and had little nationwide effect. With Mr. Cruzat in place, though, USA Swimming restarted the program, and another was held in Colorado Springs in April with 30 promising minority swimmers from all over the country.
 For years, many in swimming thought the key to attracting more minorities to the sport was finding a black superstar who could spread its popularity -- as Tiger Woods did for golf and Venus and Serena Williams did for tennis.
 ''Like tennis and golf, we are a middle-class to upper-middle-class white-bread sport,'' said Rowdy Gaines, an Olympic gold medalist in swimming who works for USA Swimming and is a board member of Asphalt Green. ''But golf and tennis have made progress. We realize we're missing the boat.'' It was not until 2000 when an African-American made a United States Olympic swim team: Anthony Ervin qualified for the Sydney Games, winning a gold medal in 50-meter freestyle.
 Chuck Wielgus, the executive director of USA Swimming, said that looking for one person to carry the burden was not the right approach. ''I'm much more concerned with increasing the depth and breadth of opportunities than waiting for the next brilliant star,'' he said. ''If we do it right, somewhere down the road, that brilliant star will come.''
 Mr. Wielgus said that USA Swimming had long been interested in improving diversity, but has only recently been financially fit enough to help pay for grass-roots programs like Asphalt Green's.
 In 1993, Asphalt Green added an indoor pool to its center at York Avenue and 90th Street, setting out to teach neighborhood children how to swim. It invited all city public schools to join its Waterproofing program, open to any school that dropped its second graders at the pool for an hour a week. Ms. Tweedy, the executive director there, said that 15 schools -- most from East Harlem nearby -- had participated, and 20,000 children had come through the program. About 600 participate each semester.
 For children who show talent but may not be able to afford to join an Asphalt Green competitive teams, which can cost more than $2,000 a year, Ms. Tweedy said scholarships were available, and that nearly 30 percent of team members were now minorities. Several swimmers from the top team have qualified for the Olympic trials in 2008.
 Fear is the biggest factor, she said, particularly for children who have never swum before. The teachers say it takes a lot of patience and coaxing, but the results are worth it. Even if the children do not become expert swimmers, they leave with basic survival skills and are comfortable in the water.
 ''When they get to the pool, they start looking for you, 'Come on, come on, let's go,' '' said Monica Molina, a 22-year-old lifeguard, who came through Asphalt Green's programs and is originally from Colombia. ''It's really great. I love to see it.''
 The biggest day is the Saturday in late April, called the Big Swim. Any child who signs up and swims a 25-yard lap receives a medal and a T-shirt. This year, more than 800 children from 6 to 16 swam, accompanied by family members snapping pictures. Lifeguards dive in to help swimmers who falter and, inevitably, those who have the most trouble end up getting the most encouragement. As soon as they hop out of the water, a medal is placed around their necks.
 Jarleen Euceda Pena, an 11-year-old from the Bronx, came to the Big Swim last year, finished first in her heat and was urged to join Asphalt Green's teams. Now she practices six days a week, and said that her friends at school thought it was cool that she was a swimmer.
 ''They ask me about my times because my dad writes them all down,'' she said. ''A lot of them want to swim now. They play basketball and soccer and stuff like that.''
 Jarleen took her first swimming lessons from her dad, German Pena, who said he taught himself to swim while growing up in the Dominican Republic. Mr. Pena drives two of his three daughters to Asphalt Green nearly every day to swim. 
 And in the rare melting pot of swimming pools, a dream of a new color has been born. 
 ''I want to go to the Olympics,'' Jarleen said. ''And I want to win a gold medal.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Health section on June 19, about the racial gap in the sport of swimming, referred incorrectly to Dr. Christine Branch, who commented on the higher drowning rates for minority children. She is the director of the Division of Unintentional Injury Prevention at the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control. (Dr. Ileana Arias is the director of the center.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: LIFESAVER -- Blacks have worse drowning rates than whites, partly because of fewer chances to learn to swim. But that is changing. In New York City, 7-year-old Ousmane Sanogo participated in a meet
he won his heat. (Photos by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
RACE TIME -- Girls ages 5 to 6, above, wait to compete at the Big Swim recently in New York, part of a program to teach minority children to swim. Left, a close contest. Below and below far left, boys who competed in a freestyle race.
 VISITING STARS -- Competitors in the Big Swim got medals and had their pictures taken with the Olympians Janet Evans, above left, and Maritza Correia, flanking a swimmer. Boys watch the heats at Asphalt Green, left, a fitness center. (Photographs by NICOLE BENGIVENO/The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SWIMMING (78%); SPORTS (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); OLYMPICS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); BEACHES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (66%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (61%) Swimming; Blacks; Asphalt Green (NYC Building); Swimming

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SWIMMING INC (54%)

PERSON: Lynn Zinser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



408 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SOCCER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Top 10 Moments: Times Bloggers Come Up for Air

 BODY:

1 -- A Time to Make Friends

POLITICAL CONTROVERSY SWIRLS around Iran's presence in the tournament, but then an Iran fan writes to the Times blog: ''World Cup would have been a great opportunity for us ordinary Iranians to remind the world of our humanity. We are a lonely people: oppressed by our own regime at home and dehumanized by the media abroad. How fitting would it be if we could use this chance to overcome this loneliness, even if for a short time. Alas that it is not going to happen. ... Or maybe I shall hope for a more understanding world for just a short while? It is still a joy to be part of all this.'' Others write in to express their support. ''You're part of this world,'' one writes. ''We love you. Right now, enjoy the goals in Germany. God bless you.'' So we are reminded that the World Cup is not about politics or ugly nationalism; it is about joy and fun and communion. As the tournament slogan says, this is a time to make friends. 


2 -- The Battle Of Kaiserslautern

THE UNITED STATES PLAYERS, facing elimination, fight like lions against Italy before a crowd whose American supporters are louder than Italy's. Perhaps they fight a little too hard -- two American players are red-carded, along with one from Italy. But they battle to a 1-1 draw and earn the respect of fans around the world. As the Scottish comedian Billy Connolly pointed out that night in New York, in England or Scotland the players would perform a lap of honor if they earned a 1-1 tie with Italy. ''Actually, in Scotland, we perform a lap of honor when we lose,'' he said.

3 -- The Grief and Joy Of Oswaldo Sanchez

MEXICO GOALKEEPER Oswaldo Sanchez's father died of a heart attack three days before the opening match against Iran. He flew back to Guadalajara, where he spent 24 hours to mourn with his family, then went back to Germany with family members and was fantastic in a 3-1 victory.

4 -- The Pride Of Mother Africa

THE FIVE AFRICAN NATIONS in the tournament -- four of them debutants -- started slowly. Then Tunisia scored an injury-time goal to tie Saudi Arabia, 2-2. Then Angola's 36-year-old unemployed goalkeeper Joao Ricardo almost single-handedly stopped Mexico in a 0-0 draw. And then, Ghana put on a virtuoso performance against a Czech Republic team that a few days before had looked unbeatable.

5 -- The Goal of 24 Touches

AT ONE POINT DURING the match between Argentina and Serbia and Montenegro, Univision's color commentator Jose Luis Chilavert claimed that Argentina was passing to the beat of a tango. He sang along, and it seemed true. The Argentines won by 6-0, and the second goal, by Esteban Cambiasso, was preceded by an incredible 24 straight passes. The end sequence: Sorin to Saviola, to Riquelme, back to Saviola, across to Cambiasso, to Crespo, backheel to Cambiasso. Goal -- one of the most beautiful in World Cup history.

6 -- Ecuador in the City

AS ECUADOR logged two entirely surprising victories to advance to the second round, the team's bright yellow shirts seemed to be everywhere in the streets of Queens, Brooklyn and Manhattan. One of us has one, wore it and walked around Brooklyn. Immediately, a shout from a passer-by: ''Ecuador!'' A well-dressed old man, sitting on a stoop: ''They win again today, no?'' Yes, sir, they did.

7 -- Brave Soca Warriors

FIRST THERE WAS SHAKA HISLOP versus Sweden. Hislop, a journeyman goalkeeper, stopped everything Sweden had for outmatched Trinidad and Tobago. Then there was little T&T's performance against mighty England, holding out for 80 minutes until finally falling to what now seems to have been a tainted goal. ''SOCA WARRIORS!!!'' one woman from Trinidad wrote on the Times blog. ''You've made your T&T people very proud! Keep playing your hearts out!''

8 -- Peter Crouch

AFTER STRUGGLING EARLY against Trinidad and Tobago, Crouch remembered why big men are on the field, heading a pinpoint cross from David Beckham to give a flagging England its first goal ina 2-0 victory -- even if he had to pull on the dreadlocks of T&T defender Brent Sancho to do it.

9 -- Germany Gets the Party Started

GERMANY 4, COSTA RICA 2: The hosts win an entertaining opening match, which offers the promise of a great tournament ahead with six goals, as many as the openers of the last four World Cups combined.

10 -- America's Embrace

FLYING FROM SAN FRANCISCO at lunchtime on opening day, one of us tried to catch a few minutes of the Ecuador-Poland match. We belong to a generation that has had to beg barkeeps to change the TV channel to soccer. But we're in luck: The terminal's one restaurant is showing the game. A crowd of businessmen, commuters and maintenance crews are all glued to the screen. There's no eat-your-greens moralizing about the virtues of the world'sbiggest sporting event -- just Americans watching and enjoying it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shades of global harmony. (Photo by Hasan Sarbakhshian/Associated Press)
One, two, three red cards were out at the Italy versus United States game. (Photos by From left, Adnan Hajj, Kieran Doherty/Reuters
Patrick Seeger/European Pressphoto Agency)
Oswaldo Sanchez (Photo by John MacDougall/Getty Images)
Ghana 2, Czech Republic 0 (Photo by Joe Klamar/Getty Images)
Gary Witkowski, Ecuador fan. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
Peter Crouch's dreaded play. (Photo by Giorgi Licovski/European Pressphoto Agency)
 Shaka Hislop, right, goalkeeper and Soca Warrior, stopping Anders Svensson of Sweden. (Photo by Ina Fassbender/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); DEATHS (61%) Soccer; World Cup

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); MEXICO (92%); GHANA (92%); GERMANY (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); AFRICA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ENGLAND (79%); ANGOLA (79%); SERBIA (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



409 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds Disasters Fueled Rise in Giving in 2005

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Charitable giving increased last year, propelled by a series of huge natural disasters at home and abroad, according to an annual report on philanthropy released today.
 Individuals and institutions gave away an estimated $260.28 billion in 2005, a 2.7 percent increase on an inflation-adjusted basis over the prior year.
Giving for disaster relief accounted for about 3 percent of the total, according to the Giving USA Foundation, an educational and research program of the American Association of Fundraising Counsel, which together with the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University publishes the annual report. 
 From December 2004 to October 2005, an estimated $7.37 billion was donated to address the ravages of natural disasters, with individuals accounting for a majority of the gifts. The American Red Cross alone received $2.4 billion to help victims of Hurricane Katrina, and the Salvation Army took in $363 million, more than three times what it raised through its annual holiday Red Kettle Campaign.
 Without disaster-related philanthropy, however, giving would have been flat. The stock market increased only modestly last year, and personal incomes fell for the second year in a row.
 ''The economic factors we saw last year led us to expect giving would be flatter,'' said Richard T. Jolly, chairman of Giving USA and a fund-raising consultant. ''Instead, people gave over and above what we expected in response to the disasters.''
 The trend was echoed among corporations, whose giving jumped 18.5 percent, adjusted for inflation, to $13.77 billion. Many companies enjoyed record profits last year, which they shared with disaster victims and relief groups. 
 Mr. Jolly said it was impossible to know what impact special tax breaks intended to stimulate charitable giving had on philanthropy over all. Congress allowed taxpayers to take deductions in 2004 for donations made in January 2005 for the victims of the tsunami that devastated huge swaths of Southeast Asia. 
 It also allowed donors who made cash gifts to almost any charity from Aug. 28, 2005, to Dec. 31, 2005, to deduct an amount equal to virtually 100 percent of their adjusted gross incomes, double the normal limit of 50 percent of income. 
 Mr. Jolly and other fund-raising experts said heightened awareness of the human toll of disasters might have helped reverse a three-year decline in giving to nonprofit organizations that provide after-school programs, housing for the homeless, substance abuse programs and other human services.
 Contributions to those charities increased 11.3 percent, when adjusted for inflation, before adding in the disaster-related part. 
 ''We got pretty intense exposure to some of the realities of poverty after Katrina,'' said Patrick M. Rooney, director of research at the Center on Philanthropy, ''and that may have spurred more giving to the types of nonprofits that try to address those problems.''
 Almost 60 percent of the charities responding to the survey reported receiving more donations last year, the highest percentage since 2000. 
 The Boys and Girls Clubs of America, for example, had a record fund-raising year in 2005, as its revenues soared 18 percent to $1.2 billion. The organization is already more than halfway toward the goal it set last year of raising $200 million by 2007, its centennial year.
 ''We've had a terrific year,'' said Cyndi Court, the organization's senior vice president for resource development.
 The organization is devoting more money to helping its local clubs develop fund-raising expertise, and Ms. Court said that effort was paying off. More than 300 clubs have started a program called ''It Just Takes One'' in an effort to attract more individual donors and reduce the traditional reliance on corporate donors, and 65 clubs are rolling out programs intended to get donors to include the organization in their estate planning.
 That focus makes sense because individuals account for more than three-quarters of the total philanthropic pie, or $199.07 billion in 2005 -- and more than four-fifths of giving when bequests are factored in. 
 In contrast, foundations gave about $30 billion, or 11.5 percent of the total, according to the survey, while corporations accounted for 5.3 percent.
 ''I know a lot of energy has gone into increasing giving among the nonprofits we talk to,'' said Lester M. Salamon, director of the Center for Civil Society Studies at Johns Hopkins University.
 Mr. Salamon emphasized that while the overall amount of giving last year was impressive, the survey overstated the amount actually available to organizations to spend in a given year. For instance, only 8.8 percent of the contributions reported to the Council for Aid to Education, which collects data on private giving to universities and colleges, were unrestricted, and most of the $21.7 billion funneled to foundations last year will be doled out over a long time. 
 ''It conjures up an image that charities have $260 billion to spend,'' Mr. Salamon said, ''but some of those dollars represent Picassos given to museums, stocks given to major university endowments and money flowing to foundation endowments, which is not available for use.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Increase in Charitable Contributions''Americans made charitable contributions of more than $260 billion in 2005, an inflation-adjusted increase of 2.7 percent from 2004. Much of the increase can be attributed to disaster relief giving.Graph tracks total giving (adjusted for inflation) from 1980-2005.DISASTER GIVING (2005)HURRICANE KATRINA: $5.3 billionTSUNAMI: $1.9 billionEARTHQUAKE IN PAKISTAN: $0.2 billion(Source by Giving USA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (91%); CHARITABLE GIVING (91%); CHARITIES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (79%); HURRICANES (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); WEATHER (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); INCOME TAX (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); TAX LAW (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (50%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%) Disasters; Philanthropy; Tsunamis and Tidal Waves; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Earthquakes; Katrina (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); THE SALVATION ARMY (56%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%) Giving Usa Foundation; American Assn of Fund-Raising Counsel

PERSON: Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



410 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

North Korean Military Closer to Missile Test
North Korea appears to have completed fueling a long-range ballistic missile, American officials said. One official said satellite photographs suggested that booster rockets had been loaded onto a launching pad and fuel tanks fitted to a missile at a site in North Korea's remote east coast. Such a move would greatly increase the probability that the North will go ahead with its first test firing in eight years. A1

Environmental Danger in Iraq 

Iraqi officials say that in a desperate move to dispose of millions of barrels of an oil refinery byproduct called black oil, the government pumped it into open mountain valleys and leaky reservoirs next to the Tigris River and set it on fire. The resulting huge black bogs are threatening the river and the precious groundwater in the region. A1

American forces have intensified their search for two soldiers missing and reportedly held captive by insurgents, widening their pursuit to areas beyond the restive town of Yusifiya, where the missing servicemen were attacked, and drawing troops from at least three brigade combat teams. A10

U.S. and China Court Hanoi
Vietnam's leaders have made plain they want the United States on their side for equilibrium against China. The government, though an ideological ally of Beijing, is fearful of an expanding Chinese sphere of influence and of being reduced to an economic appendage by its northern neighbor. A3

Somalia's Battle Over Culture
Islamic miliatiamen in Somalia, flush from an earlier military victory that caught Washington and the world by surprise, have begun waging smaller battles -- cultural, not military ones -- in and around Somalia's shellshocked capital. A11

Catalonia Approves Self-Rule
Voters in Spain's northeastern region of Catalonia approved a sweeping overhaul of its constitutional relationship with the central government, endorsing a plan granting the region broad new powers of self-government. A8

Rove's War Support Criticized
In an appearance on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' Representative John P. Murtha, left, the Pennsylvania Democrat and Vietnam War veteran pushing for a quick withdrawal of American troops from Iraq, mocked Karl Rove, the president's senior adviser, for championing the war while ''sitting in his air-conditioned office on his big, fat backside.'' A10

OBITUARIES A17

Morton M. Kligerman
A doctor who in the 1950's was an early advocate for using radiation and other experimental methods for treating cancer, he was 88. A17

NATIONAL A12-16

Episcopal Church Names Woman as Top Bishop
The Episcopal Church elected the Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori of Nevada as its new presiding bishop, making her the first woman to serve as a primate in the history of the 77-million-member worldwide Anglican Communion. A1

Company Ties Not Noted
A retired Coast Guard commander told lawmakers and reporters that domestic ports were vulnerable and offered a system that scans every container. But a fact remained in the background: From 2003 until 2005, he was a paid consultant to the company that manufactured the system. A1

Push for White House Change
In his first three months as White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten has brought new people to critical jobs, worked to repair frayed relationships with Republicans on Capitol Hill and tried to ensure that the White House takes advantage of its breaks. A15

I.R.S. Checks Hospitals
The Internal Revenue Service has begun a wide-ranging investigation of nonprofit hospitals to determine whether they are flouting standards for tax-exempt status, whether they deny care to people without insurance and whether they provide significant amounts of charity care. A15

A.C.L.U. Warned on Speech
A lawyer in the New York state attorney general's office informally warned the American Civil Liberties Union that his office had concerns about proposed standards that would limit the group's board members from speaking publicly about policies and internal operations, three board members said. A13

Illegal Workers in Mainstream
In contrast to the typical image of an illegal immigrant -- paid in cash, working under the table for small-scale labor contractors -- a majority now work for mainstream companies, and are hired and paid like any other American worker. A1

A Sinking Island
For natural and manufactured reasons, 30 square miles of Louisiana wetlands vanish every year into the Gulf. The residents of Isle de Jean Charles are worried, partly because wetlands and barrier islands act as hurricane buffers to a vulnerable mainland. A12

Concerns on Plane Blast
Federal investigators say they are deeply concerned about an engine break-up that nearly destroyed a Boeing 767 on the ground in Los Angeles because the failure may indicate a recurrence of a problem they thought they had eliminated in 2003. A13

Giving Increased Last Year
Charitable giving increased last year, propelled by a series of huge natural disasters at home and abroad, according to an annual report on philanthropy. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Researchers at Library Survive in Age of Internet
A small band of researchers at the New York Public Library has been tackling questions from anyone, of any age, from anywhere for years. Today, despite the Internet, the ten employees of what is known as the telephone reference service are still at it and can answer questions in under five minutes. B1

Barbecuing by the Highway
Dozens of New Yorkers with a tolerance for honking horns and emergency sirens gathered on the grassy areas between the highway and the East River for a Father's Day barbecue because finding a spot for a cookout can be difficult for many city residents who do not have a yard. B1

Violent Weekend in Brooklyn
It was an unusually violent weekend in Central Brooklyn, with 10 people shot or slashed in five unrelated incidents that started shortly after midnight and ended just before daybreak. All of the victims are expected to recover. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Ogilvy Wins U.S. Open
Australia's Geoff Ogilvy won the United States Open at Winged Foot with a final-round two-over-par 72 to finish at five-over-par 285. Phil Mickelson, who only needed to par the 18th hole to win his third consecutive major championship, walked off with a double bogey -- his first in 72 holes. D1

Heat Take Control of Finals
Dwyane Wade scored 43 points as Miami defeated Dallas 101-100 in overtime of Game 5 of the NBA finals. Miami leads 3-2 in the best-of-seven series. D9

ARTS E1-8

$135 Million for Klimt Portrait
A dazzling gold-flecked 1907 portrait by Gustav Klimt has been purchased for the Neue Galerie in Manhattan by the cosmetics magnate Ronald S. Lauder for $135 million, the highest sum ever paid for a painting. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Telecommunications Merger
Nokia of Finland and Siemens of Germany are expected to announce that they will merge their telecommunication network equipment businesses in a deal valued at more than $30 billion, people involved in the transaction said. A1

Tribune's Shaky Synergy
Recent financial troubles at the Tribune Company show that its ''synergy'' strategy -- which involves sharing broadcast and print information -- is not working out as planned. C1

More Questions on Options
A case involving Micrel, a semiconductor company, raises questions about how companies that were pushing the envelope of accounting and tax practice were able to get the blessings of auditors and lawyers. C1

Nestle to Buy Jenny Craig
Nestle, the Swiss food giant, is set to announce today that it has agreed to pay about $600 million for Jenny Craig, the weight loss company that has had a surprise turnaround in recent years. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The call of the gun lobby; Mexico's election; fire sale in the forests; Brent Staples on the high price of failing to teach reading.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Bridge E6
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E9
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPACE PROPULSION (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); RELIGION (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); WOMEN (69%); CANCER (63%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (55%); JOHN P MURTHA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOMALIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); VIET NAM (92%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (79%); VIETNAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



411 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Webdenda; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By The New York Times

 BODY:
Agent 16, New York, hired four employees: Chris Caracciolo, art director on the Winston account; Ayesha Mathews, art director on the Camel account; Ceasar Saingchin, Web designer; and Matthew Schrack, also a Web designer. The Camel and Winston cigarette brands are owned by Reynolds American.
 Avaya, Basking Ridge, N.J., selected MediaVest, New York, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, to handle the media planning and buying parts of its account, which had been handled by Universal McCann, New York, part of the Interpublic Media division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Avaya spends $40 million to $50 million on worldwide advertising. The shift of the media assignments came after Avaya chose offices of Saatchi & Saatchi, also part of Publicis, to handle worldwide creative assignments in areas like advertising, direct marketing and promotions.
Units of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, hired three employees. Brian DiLorenzo joined BBDO North America as executive director for content, a new post. He had been director for broadcast production at Fallon Worldwide, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe. And the BBDO flagship New York office hired two creative directors, Florence Buchanan and Karen McIntyre, who joined from Deutsch, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
 Jeff Bell joined the Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., as corporate vice president for global marketing at the interactive entertainment division, which includes the Xbox video game business. He had been vice president for product strategy at the Chrysler Group, Auburn Hills, Mich., part of DaimlerChrysler; during his five years at Chrysler, he led the company's efforts into nontraditional advertising like online marketing, video games and branded entertainment.
 Nicole Christopherson, office manager at Mackenzie, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, was promoted to project manager.
 Clay Conrad joined the San Francisco office of Invidi Technologies, as vice president for global sales, assuming duties from Jim McDaniels, senior vice president for sales, who left, the company said. Mr. Conrad had been president at the KCM Media Group, Half Moon Bay, Calif.
 Dentsu, the Japanese agency company, and the Mitsubishi Corporation formed an alliance to produce, sell and manage the rights for Japanese animated content in Japan and other markets, particularly North America. The alliance includes an investment fund to be owned 50-50 by each company.
 Bob DeSena joined Mediaedge:cia, New York, part of the GroupM division of the WPP Group, as managing partner and director for active engagement, a new post. He had most recently been chief executive at the Engagement Marketing Group, New York.
 Caroline Eddings joined St. John & Partners, Jacksonville, Fla., as management supervisor, overseeing the Clearwire account team. She had been account supervisor at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners.
 Family Friendly Programming Forum, New York, named two chairwomen to succeed Dawn Jacobs, vice president for advertising at Johnson & Johnson, who served as chairwoman for two years. One is Pat Gentile, national television programming manager at the Procter & Gamble Company, and the other is Carole Millsaps, advertising manager for the FedEx Services unit of the FedEx Corporation. The forum is a consortium of more than 40 national marketers that supports the development of programs on prime-time broadcast network television that can be watched by adults and children together. Five series scheduled to debut during the 2006-7 season were created through the forum's script development fund. Three will be on ABC: "Betty the Ugly," "Brothers and Sisters" and "Notes from the Underbelly." One, "Runaway," will be on CW. And one, "Friday Night Lights," will be on NBC. Two series previously developed through the fund are returning for 2006-7: "Everybody Hates Chris" and "Gilmore Girls," both on CW. 
 Bryan Fuhr joined McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, as director for engagement planning, a new post. He had been partner and associate director for strategy at Ogilvy & Mather, New York, part of the WPP Group. McCann Erickson is part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 The New York office of GSW Worldwide, part of inVentiv Health, hired two employees. Scott Harper joined as a senior account executive; he had been a senior account executive at Cline Davis & Mann, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. And Jen McKeever joined as an account executive; she had been a marketing and advertising junior account executive at Double Platinum, New York.
 Pam Horan, acting president at the Online Publishers Association, New York, was named president.
 Jack in the Box, San Diego, began advertising on national cable television for the first time, after limiting its commercials previously to regional media, mostly in 44 spot markets. The spots are running on networks like Comedy Central, ESPN and FX. Horizon Media, New York, is the media agency for Jack in the Box, the fast food chain with a majority of its restaurants in the Southwest and West.
 Nick Johnson was named vice president for advertising sales at Reuters America, New York, part of Reuters. He assumes some duties from Walker Jacobs, head of media sales for Reuters America, to whom Mr. Johnson reports. Mr. Johnson had been chief revenue officer at Revenue Science, New York.
 The LG Electronics North American subsidiary, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., expanded its relationship with Brand Buzz, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group, by naming Brand Buzz as its North American advertising agency of record. Brand Buzz, which had created campaigns for LG in the United States, will now also create ads for Canada and Mexico, in the latter country working with a sibling, Y&R Mexico. Total spending in North America was estimated at $50 million a year.
 Logo, New York, part of the MTV Networks division of Viacom, made two acquisitions in online media. Logo acquired Erosion Media, which owns two entertainment Web sites, afterellen.com and afterelton.com, and also acquired 365gay Media, which operates a Web site specializing in news, 365gay.com. The sites become part of the Logo online portfolio that includes the Web site logoonline.com. Financial terms were not disclosed. Sarah Warn, a co-founder of Erosion Media, becomes an executive producer at Logo. Rob Sands, founder of 365gay Media, will serve as a consultant. 
 John McNulty joined the San Francisco office of Carat Fusion as an account director; he had most recently been associate director for marketing at the San Francisco office of Modem Media, part of Digitas. Carat Fusion is part of Carat, owned by the Aegis Group.
 Diane Myer joined the List, Atlanta, as director for Daily Vista, responsible for the introduction and operation of a daily news analysis meant to help agency subscribers with business development. Ms. Myer had been business development manager at the Grizzard Communications Group, Atlanta, part of the Omnicom Group. 
 The New Jersey Advertising Club elected officers and board members. Gary Denburg, a print consultant, was elected to a second one-year term as president. Michael Schumacher, marketing and communications manager at the Newark Museum, was elected senior vice president. Anna Marie D'Elia, vice president at Block Advertising and Marketing, was elected first vice president. And Stu Bodow, director for marketing and sales at Commerce magazine, published by the Commerce and Industry Association of New Jersey, was elected second vice president.
 Publishers Information Bureau, New York, reported that advertising pages for magazines fell 2.3 percent last month from May 2005. For the first five months of 2006, the bureau reported, ad pages were even with the same period a year ago.
 R&R Partners, Las Vegas, hired three executives for new posts. Daniel Russ joined as executive creative director; he had been senior vice president and group creative director at GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group. Kathy Detwiler joined as executive vice president for public relations; she had most recently operated her own public relations agency. And Fletcher Whitwell joined as associate media director; he had most recently been associate media director at Starcom, Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.
 Mark Renshaw, director for interactive marketing and customer relationship management for the Asia-Pacific region at the Singapore office of Arc Worldwide, was named senior vice president and director for one-to-one marketing solutions in the United States region, based in Chicago. Arc Worldwide is part of the Publicis Groupe.
 Jonathan Sanchez was named chief communications officer at Euro RSCG Worldwide, New York, part of Havas. The post had most recently been held by Owen Dougherty, who now has the same title at the Grey Global Group, New York, part of the WPP Group. Mr. Sanchez had been joint managing director at Euro RSCG Biss Lancaster, London.
 Benjamin Tatta joined the Rainbow Advertising Sales Corporation, New York, as senior vice president for business development, a new post. He had been senior vice president and general manager for the interactive marketing and studios division at GSI Commerce, Philadelphia, part of Comcast. Rainbow Advertising Sales is part of the Rainbow Media Holdings division of the Cablevision Systems Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); DIRECT MARKETING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (94%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (94%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (67%); MITSUBISHI CORP (63%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (60%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (60%); AVAYA INC (58%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (58%); WPP PLC (57%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (56%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (56%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (53%); ST JOHN & PARTNERS ADVERTISING & PUBLIC RELATIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (94%); PUB (PAR) (94%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (67%); MBC (LSE) (63%); 8058 (TSE) (63%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%); PGP (PAR) (60%); PG (NYSE) (60%); RAI (NYSE) (58%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (57%); WPP (LSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (53%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (63%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (60%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (60%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (58%); SIC2121 CIGARS (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



412 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 358 words

PERSON: Daniel Steiner

HEADLINE: Daniel Steiner, 72, Conservatory President

BYLINE: By ANNE MIDGETTE

 BODY:
Daniel Steiner, the president of New England Conservatory, died on June 11 in Boston. He was 72.
 The cause was complications of chronic lung disease, according to a statement released by the school. 
Mr. Steiner, a lawyer, was the first nonmusician to head the conservatory. His seven years there capped a career that had included federal posts in President Lyndon B. Johnson's administration and more than 20 years as general counsel of Harvard University; for his last 10 years at Harvard he was also vice president. 
 His stated goal for the New England Conservatory was to put the school in a leading position in its field, giving it status comparable to that of Harvard or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in their fields. During his administration, the school attracted a number of leading musicians to its faculty, and as a result student applications increased by 70 percent. Mr. Steiner also inaugurated a $100 million capital campaign; $72 million has been raised. 
 Mr. Steiner was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and grew up in New York City. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1954, studied for a year at the University of London and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1958. After a period of private practice with two New York law firms, he joined the Agency for International Development at the State Department in 1965 and later became the general counsel for the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. In 1969 he moved on to Harvard, where he was named the university's first general counsel in 1970. 
 Mr. Steiner became an overseer of New England Conservatory in 1994, joined the board of trustees in 1995 and took over as acting president in 1999. He announced in September that he would step down at the end of this year for health reasons. He was awarded an honorary doctorate at the school's commencement in May; he was too ill to attend, but his wife of 46 years, Prudence, read his commencement address in his stead. 
 In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Steiner Hayward of Portland, Ore.; a son, Joshua, of New York; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LAWYERS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); BOARD CHANGES (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (54%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (54%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

Anne Midgette

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



413 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: An Eye for Detail And the Resolve To Push Change

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18 

 BODY:
Every weekday morning at 7:30, a coterie of senior advisers to President Bush gather in the Roosevelt Room of the White House to chart the day's course. For years, they took the same seats -- until Joshua B. Bolten arrived and, without warning, rearranged the chairs. 
 That might sound like fodder for a joke about shuffling the deck chairs on the Titanic, but to Mr. Bolten, who became Mr. Bush's chief of staff in April with a mandate to get the beleaguered White House back on track, it was serious business. Whether the task is plotting last week's surprise trip to Baghdad or improving the flow of information at meetings -- ''I actually spent a good hour or two thinking about the structure of the table,'' he said of the Roosevelt Room -- few details have been too small to escape his notice.
Now, after months in which the White House has suffered from plummeting presidential approval ratings and missteps, its new detail man is making a mark. He has brought new people to critical jobs, has worked to repair frayed relationships with Republicans on Capitol Hill and has tried to ensure that the White House takes advantage of its breaks, like the killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the jihadist leader in Iraq. 
 ''Part of the problem is they were having pops of good news in the last few months, but it seemed like they were happening in a vacuum,'' said Dan Senor, a former administration spokesman in Iraq who is now a crisis management strategist in New York. ''Josh's organizational intensity and attention to detail helps the White House better capitalize on these individual pops of good news, and that's what you need to build momentum.''
 There is a long way to go before Mr. Bolten can say he has turned the White House around. The president's job approval ratings remain low, hovering just below 40 percent. A majority of the public still believes that going to war in Iraq was a mistake. Republicans in Congress have yet to agree on immigration legislation and remain in danger of losing their majority in the midterm elections this fall.
 Mr. Bolten, in his first interview since taking the job, professed not to care about the polls. ''My measure will be, are we doing our jobs well?'' he said. ''And if we are and our poll numbers are still low, I'll still be very proud of what we're doing.''
 Mr. Bolten is trying to impose fresh discipline while opening up an insular White House that famously brooked no dissent. It is a balancing act that signals the essence of an effective chief of staff, said Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was asked by President Reagan to orchestrate a second-term comeback. 
 ''Josh has made it clear,'' Mr. Duberstein said, ''that he is going to tell the president what he needs to know, not just what the president wants to hear.''
 During his two months on the job, Mr. Bolten has helped recruit a new press secretary, Tony Snow, and a nominee for Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., a senior Wall Street executive. He relieved Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, of managing policy on a day-to-day basis and instructed him to focus on politics -- a move that Republicans hope will put them in a much better position for the midterm elections. 
 At the White House, Mr. Bolten invited Iraq experts who had been highly critical of the president into the Oval Office to brief Mr. Bush. On Capitol Hill, Mr. Bolten is tending to lawmakers' needs. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she spent months asking the White House to help mediate a House-Senate dispute over a long-stalled postal bill. When Mr. Bolten arrived, she asked again, and he assigned someone to the task the next day.
 While he is known for working long hours, Mr. Bolten is known to have a playful side as well. On Thursday night, Mr. Bolten's rock band, the Compassionates, was the featured entertainment at the White House Congressional picnic. The 51-year-old bespectacled chief of staff, ordinarily mild-mannered, played bass as the band performed tunes like ''Born to be Wild.'' 
 ''Bolten has had an enormous influence,'' said one Republican close to the administration, who was granted anonymity to speak about internal White House matters. ''Internally, there is more openness, there is more real discussion about the challenges that are faced. People aren't trying to gloss over bad news.''
 In the interview, Mr. Bolten was obviously pleased with how things were going, saying he sensed ''a good energy'' at the White House. He said that last Tuesday, the day Mr. Bush flew to Baghdad, was his best day yet. The plan for Mr. Bush to slip away unnoticed from Camp David was hatched in Mr. Bolten's office. 
 ''On the way over I was nervous, but mainly about the possibility that our trip would be disclosed and the security people on the ground might consider it too dangerous for a big target like that to come in with advance notice,'' he said. ''Then when it became clear that we wouldn't have to turn around, I was just thrilled to be there with the president, I think, at a really historic moment.''
 When Mr. Bush asked Mr. Bolten, his budget director, to replace Andrew H. Card Jr. as chief of staff, it was not viewed as an especially bold choice. Republicans like Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi had been calling for a fresh face; Mr. Bolten, who has worked with Mr. Bush since the 2000 campaign, was part of the inner circle of an administration that seemed to be turning ever more inward.
 ''I've been impressed with him, quite honestly,'' Mr. Lott said recently. ''You can't give Bolten credit for killing Zarqawi, but one of the critical things that Josh did is decide that Karl Rove needed to be moved out of policy and back into politics, and focus on politics and message more.''
 Mr. Bolten also quickly seized on Mr. Bush's mandate to revamp the organization, confiding to one friend that he sometimes felt like ''the recruiter in chief.'' In the interview, he said he was ''basically done on the personnel side'' and dismissed speculation that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld might be next to leave.
 ''I'm a big fan of his,'' Mr. Bolten said.
 For all of Mr. Bolten's success, some say the jury is still out. Among them is Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, who clashed with Mr. Bolten in a private meeting earlier this month over the administration's domestic eavesdropping program. 
 ''It's too soon to tell,'' Mr. Specter said of Mr. Bolten's performance.
 Mr. Bolten says his task now is to ''keep the White House focused on the two most important things on the president's agenda'': the war in Iraq and the economy. But his real challenge is preventing Mr. Bush from becoming a lame duck by ensuring that Republicans keep control of Congress this November.
 ''If he does that,'' said Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative advocacy group, ''everyone will be extremely pleased. If he doesn't, then it doesn't really matter what other decisions he makes.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua B. Bolten performing with his band, the Compassionates, at the White House Congressional picnic. He has received generally good reviews as White House chief of staff. (Photo by Joshua Roberts/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); IMMIGRATION LAW (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Joshua B Bolten; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



414 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: With a Little Help, Gaining Broader Access to Better-Paying Jobs 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
After 14 years in prison for manslaughter, Edwin Reyes, 43, was seeking a new start.
 Jennifer Penn, 45, wanted a steady job rather than the temporary ones she had held since leaving welfare.
Darryl Walker, 41, had bounced for years from one part-time gig to another as a low-paid nonunion electrician, unable to capitalize on his talents because he is a high school dropout.
 The 3 are among nearly 100 New York City residents completing a workplace-skills and remedial-education course intended to help them pursue well-paid unionized construction jobs. 
 The six-month course, given by a nonprofit group called Strive, is part of an overall program of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's to widen access to the highly coveted jobs among people with handicapping backgrounds, and among minorities, women and military veterans. 
 Advocates for minorities and women have said that these groups were long excluded from unions in high-paying trades like electrical work and plumbing, in which unionized journeymen in the city earn about $40 an hour. While industry and union leaders say opportunities for minorities and women have grown in recent years, critics say progress has been far too slow. 
 Elected officials and advocates for the poor and for veterans have urged that those groups, too, share in the job opportunities to be generated by a construction boom expected over the next decade. Major projects that have been started or are planned include the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site and new stadiums for the Yankees and Mets. 
 ''We thought it was important to take the next step to provide pathways to those opportunities,'' Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, said in an interview. 
 Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem had urged the mayor to pursue such a program. The overall program began last year with the mayor's formation of a Commission on Construction Opportunity to propose initiatives. 
 Under the commission's major initiative, two dozen construction unions have agreed that between now and 2010, each will reserve 15 percent of its annual apprenticeships for new graduates of the city's public high schools, plus 10 percent for women and 10 percent for veterans. 
 An additional 5 percent of the slots this year, rising to 10 percent by 2010, are to be set aside for chronically unemployed or underemployed people and those whose personal histories make getting a job hard. Strive's preparatory course, which ends June 30, is the first step for people in this category. The unions are to begin filling this year's slots in late summer.
 There is no allocation exclusively for minorities because there is no need for one, said Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers' Association, an industry group working to carry out the apprenticeship program with the unions' umbrella group, the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York. 
 The fact that minorities are a major part of the city's population, he said, will ensure that ''a significant number'' of them will come into the union apprenticeship programs through the designated categories. He described the percentages earmarked for the categories as goals and said each union would continue to decide which individuals to accept. The city said it would monitor progress on meeting the goals. 
 Mr. Coletti said that while apprenticeship openings varied from year to year, the total openings in the participating unions are expected to be about 1,200 this year, and about the same annually through 2010 -- or about 6,000 in a unionized construction force in the city of about 100,000. 
 The 55 percent to 60 percent of annual openings not reserved for the program will be filled ''the regular way,'' he said, citing ''extensive outreach,'' including public announcements of openings, and word passed to relatives and friends by union members.
 Depending on the union, apprenticeships last two to five years, with wages typically growing each year until the apprentice becomes a full-fledged journeyman. 
 The apprenticeship effort builds on a program that was begun in 2000 and initially involved the unions' reserving 10 percent of their annual apprenticeships for new public high school graduates. The graduates were required to go through six weeks of pre-apprenticeship training, including visits to construction sites, before the union would consider them for the reserved slots. 
 That program, called Construction Skills 2000, had placed 575 people in apprenticeships through last year, Mr. Coletti said. He said it had contributed to the increase in the number of minority apprentices in the city's construction unions in recent years. Of 7,000 apprentices now, he said, 25 percent are black, 22 percent Hispanic and 4 percent Asian-American. Women make up 6 percent, he said. 
 Paul Fernandes, the chief of staff of the Building and Construction Trades Council, said the unions had agreed to add the new groups to the Construction Skills 2000 program because it has a ''track record of producing a better caliber of apprenticeship recruits.''
 Mr. Doctoroff said the starting allocation of 5 percent of slots for the chronically unemployed and underemployed and those with difficult job prospects reflected the reality that they usually ''require a lot of educational and skills training.'' 
 Strive, a Manhattan group that specializes in helping people like former convicts and welfare recipients enter the job market, is providing that training, which must be successfully completed for the candidates in this category to advance to the Construction Skills 2000 pre-apprenticeship program.
 Many in the Strive program, like Mr. Walker, dropped out of high school and are getting help preparing to take the test for a high school equivalency diploma, the minimum educational requirement for a union apprenticeship, said Lizzette Dunn-Barcelona, Strive's executive vice president. 
 Besides the remedial education, the Strive program also teaches such basic workplace skills as getting to work on time and dealing appropriately with supervisors and colleagues.
 Mr. Walker, a father of four from Brooklyn, said at a Strive center in East Harlem, ''I want to have full-time days and wages'' and move from $9 to $11 an hour as a nonunion electrician to four times as much as a union member. 
 Some who graduated from high school or had equivalency diplomas have taken Strive's courses in reading and math, Ms. Penn among them. She said she was eyeing an apprenticeship in the painters' union and saw the city program as ''opening more doors for me.''
 Mr. Reyes expressed a similar hope. He learned electrical work in prison, and ''getting into a union program,'' he said, holds the promise of making a success of the rest of his life. Mr. Reyes has been living in Queens since December, when he was released from prison after having served time for fatally shooting someone in a fight in 1990.
 Outside a construction site on West 42nd Street the other day, two longtime members of Plumbers Local Union 1, Anthony Breva, 36, and Louie Berkey, 41, said they became apprentices years ago after relatives in construction trades alerted them to when the applications would be available, though Mr. Breva said he could have learned this on his own. 
 As for the new city program, Mr. Berkey said, ''I'm all for it as long as they go through what I did and they hack it,'' as Mr. Breva nodded his assent.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Darryl Walker hopes to work as a union electrician after getting his high school equivalency diploma. Strive is helping him prepare for the test.
 Jennifer Penn, left, studying math in a class sponsored by the nonprofit group Strive as part of its job-readiness program. The students at right are learning about financial planning. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); WOMEN (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); VETERANS (73%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Building (Construction); Labor; Vocational Training; Veterans; Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; Prisons and Prisoners; Women; Building (Construction); Hiring and Promotion; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: Strive (Orgn)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (70%); CHARLES B RANGEL (50%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Joseph Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



415 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Video Game Makers Are Battling Sinking Stock Prices 

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
The video game industry has been taking a beating. 
 While air has seeped steadily from the stock market, it has poured from the four major publicly traded game publishers. Since May 1, they have lost a collective $6 billion in market capitalization, about a 25 percent drop, compared to declines of 8.3 percent for the Nasdaq and 4.2 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
The sharp decline reflects a realization by investors that the game industry will recover considerably more slowly than expected from the transition to a new generation of consoles, the Xbox 360 from Microsoft, the Sony PlayStation 3 and the Nintendo Wii. 
 So, too, analysts said, the game publishing industry is being disrupted by the growing cost of development, as well as uncertainty and opportunity created by the growing popularity of online game play. 
 ''There are more industry concerns than ever, and that's what you're seeing in the stock prices,'' said Justin Post, an industry analyst with Merrill Lynch.
 And yet, underscoring the complexities of assessing the industry, Mr. Post has a buy rating on shares of two of the major publishers, Electronic Arts and Activision. Like many stock analysts, he argues that given long-term trends, the game business is destined to boom, and that the only question is when.
 Evidence of trouble started growing last November after Microsoft introduced the Xbox 360, marking the transition to a new generation of game consoles more powerful and graphics-rich than previous models.
 Production delays left Microsoft unable to meet demand, leaving some customers unable to buy an Xbox and, in turn, the publishers' games. Highlighting the troubles, Electronic Arts said in early May that its 2007 fiscal earnings could be as much as 70 percent lower than analysts had projected.
 Several days later, the industry convened in Los Angeles for its annual convention, the Electronic Entertainment Expo, a neon-lighted extravaganza of self-promotion. 
 But rather than providing momentum, it seemed only to complicate matters. Sony said it would release its own next-generation console, the PlayStation 3, in November and sell it for $499, the highest price ever for a console. 
 Since January, Wall Street analysts have dropped their estimates of the industry's total revenues for 2006 by 60 percent, said Daniel Ernst, an analyst with Soleil-Hudson Square Research. Many analysts now say that publishers will not see significant growth until well into 2007.
 Mr. Ernst said the most optimistic view is that by the end of this year, consumers will own 15 million consoles of the new generation -- 12 million Xbox 360 consoles and the rest PlayStation 3 and Wii machines. There are about 150 million machines of the preceding generation.
 Past transitions have been painful, too; consumers, awaiting new systems, tend to hold off on purchases of games for the old systems. The video game industry is highly unusual in that every three or four years, in sync with new consoles, publishers hit a trough of earnings but one historically followed by a boom.
 That is what the game executives are expecting this time.
 ''More people are playing games than ever before,'' said Bobby Kotick, chief executive of Activision, whose franchises have included Doom, Quake and Tony Hawk. ''People who were in their teens in the 80's are now playing games with their kids. When I look at the next 10 years as compared to the past 10 years, I just see better prospects.''
 He said that the powerful new consoles and richer games would attract consumers, that publishers had a chance to profit by making games for a range of different machines (not just consoles, but also hand-held devices, like the Sony PSP), and that a consolidation of smaller publishers in recent years could leave greater shares for those remaining.
 But Mr. Kotick acknowledged that there were challenges, including a growing need to produce games more efficiently. He said the industry would probably also focus more narrowly on games with hit potential (selling several million copies) as opposed to a scattershot approach of creating numerous games that sell one million copies or less.
 What is becoming clear to analysts, they said, is that this transition includes some particular facets complicating how soon the industry rebounds and how far. One aggravating factor is a 30 percent to 50 percent increase in the cost of making top-tier games -- now $10 million to $15 million to make games for the new consoles and their more powerful processors.
 The expense is expected to cut into profit margins, which may have hit their peak at some companies, notably at Electronic Arts, analysts said.
 A potentially counterbalancing force is the emergence of revenue from gamers playing over the Internet -- which the Xbox 360 allows and the PlayStation 3 is also expected to allow -- and using the consoles to download games. If so, that could allow publishers to markedly cut the cost of distribution.
 On the other hand, that prospect may be one reason for the fall in the share price of GameStop, a game retailer, analysts said. Since early May its stock has fallen to $39.43, from above $48. Mr. Kotick, for one, says he does not think that players will be routinely downloading games any time soon, given bandwidth and hard-drive limitations. 
 ''The idea of full downloadable games is so far in the future that it's almost incomprehensible as an opportunity,'' Mr. Kotick said. But he added that there were more immediately plausible revenue opportunities from selling downloads of supplemental game levels or ''characters, new weapons, new missions, or auctioning off places'' in a virtual world.
 The wariness of game industry investors is heightened by concerns that inflation will drive up interest rates, cutting into consumer spending. ''People go to Wal-Mart less, and fewer video games are sold,'' said Evan Wilson, a video game industry analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. ''There's a pall cast over every stock that touches consumer spending.''
 But Michael Pachter, an analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities, says that a retrenchment in consumer spending could assist game makers if people abandon higher-cost entertainment in favor of stay-at-home entertainment. ''A bad economy is good for video games,'' he said.
 Over the long term, analysts said they were bullish, citing the increasing popularity of games and the growing ranks of adults who have been playing video games for years. 
 ''I would be buying these stocks with both hands,'' Mr. Wilson said. Within the industry, he ranks Activision and THQ as the better current opportunities, seeing them as having a chance of winning market share away from rivals like Take-Two Interactive and Electronic Arts. 
 To be sure, the analysts see these stocks as a group only to a point, advising that investors look at the long-term prospects for each company. Since May, Electronic Arts' shares have fallen to $42.30, from $56.80; Activision to $11.58, from $14.19; THQ to $21.49, from $25.63; and Take-Two to $13.10, from $17.05. 
 Particularly rough news came two weeks ago for Take-Two, which announced that in its second quarter it had losses of $50 million, compared with a loss of $8 million in the same period a year earlier. Mr. Pachter of Wedbush Morgan said some analysts continued to be skeptical of the company as possibly a ''one-hit wonder'' supported by its wildly successful Grand Theft Auto franchise.
 The publishers' stocks were up slightly on Thursday and Friday, but analysts did not see the beginnings of a turnaround. ''The move the last two days doesn't do anything to offset the material decline of thestocks,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''Relative to the total move that's happened since the beginning of May, it's not that big.''
 Mr. Ernst, from Soleil-Hudson, said there might be one upside to continued investor disappointment this year.
 ''If 2006 stinks, 2007 on a comparable basis is going to look pretty incredible,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the problems facing the video game industry misstated a figure from a report by Soleil-Hudson Square Research on analysts' financial forecasts for the industry. The report estimated a 60 percent cut in 2006 in the industry's total earnings, not its revenues.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Call of Duty 2 is made by Activision, whose shares have fallen 17 percent this year as the industry moves to a new generation of consoles. (Photo by Activision)Graphs track the stock price of Activision, Electronic Arts, Take-Two Interactive and THQ for 2006. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (94%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (89%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); TRADE SHOWS (62%); PUBLISHING (58%) Computer and Video Games; Industry Profiles; Computer and Video Games

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); ACTIVISION BLIZZARD INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Activision; Take-Two Interactive Software Inc; Thq Inc; Gamestop Corp; Electronic Arts

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (91%); 7974 (TSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); ATVI (NASDAQ) (55%); AIY (FRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006



416 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Scenes From a Pre-Crash Marriage

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
A busy season for Richard Greenberg fizzles to a close with ''The House in Town,'' a wan new drama about an American marriage slowly imploding in the days before the country's economy did the same, more suddenly and spectacularly, back in 1929.
 Mr. Greenberg, arguably our most prolific playwright, has had an annus horribilis on Broadway. Or at least an annus not-so-goodilis. His comedy ''A Naked Girl on the Appian Way'' was shredded by critics last fall, and the star-driven revival of ''Three Days of Rain'' proved to be a supernova only at the box office. It was to be hoped that Mr. Greenberg's return to Off Broadway, where much of his best work (including the Tony-winning ''Take Me Out'') has often been nurtured before moving on to headier climes, would mark a happy return to form. 
But ''The House in Town,'' which opened last night at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater in a pretty but desultory production directed by Doug Hughes, is a hollow and diffuse social study that imparts few coherent insights into the issues it vaguely raises about the tensions of marriage or the mercenary corruptions of American culture, then or now. Mr. Greenberg's perceptive wit makes a few welcome appearances -- there is a delicious running gag about the various definitions of the word ''gossip'' -- but the play meanders to its glum conclusion without engaging us on either an emotional or an intellectual level.
 A grievous piece of miscasting does not help. Jessica Hecht, an idiosyncratic actress with the distracted manner of a latter-day Sandy Dennis, gamely tries to make some sense of the central role of Amy Hammer, a well-to-do housewife sliding gradually from dissatisfaction to despair. But she cannot knit into a believable whole the character's internal contradictions. Ms. Hecht embodies Amy's dreamy and diffident nature with ease, but she fails to convey the vivacity and warmth necessary to endear her to us.
 A thoroughbred from Saratoga, Amy has dismayed her parents by marrying Sam Hammer (Mark Harelik), a Jewish retail magnate who has set her up in a comfortable town house on Millionaires' Row, as the stretch of 23rd Street between Ninth and Tenth Avenues was once called. (Given current real estate prices, it may as well be called that again.) 
 The marriage has been childless and, for many years, sexless too. Amy's frustrations are expressed in her tendency to speak in wistful or foreboding non sequiturs: ''Whenever I see myself happy in the future, I'm sitting down,'' or ''Often, when I'm most comfortable, and the house is at its prettiest, I think about anarchy.'' Perhaps, too, unarticulated resentment of her husband flickers in her casual but unsettlingly frequent references to him as ''a Jew.'' 
 Those remarks suggest that the play may develop into an examination of how the social and economic divides in American culture can poison even the most promising marriages. Abortion plays a minor element in the plot as well, hinting that Mr. Greenberg might have intended to illuminate the current debate over the subject by examining attitudes toward it in an earlier era. The play's characters include a doctor, Con Eliot (Armand Schultz), who comes to the aid of rich women who find themselves in unexpected difficulties, and his tart-tongued wife, Jean (Becky Ann Baker), Amy's confidante, who uses knowledge of his clientele for social advancement.
 But these ever-topical, faintly provocative subjects (another is the reeling pace of urban renewal) mostly appear to be flimsy sociological window-dressing for a portrait of an unhappy marriage that draws on old-fashioned melodramatics -- a fatal disease, a secret affair -- to generate such tension as it can muster.
 Which isn't a whole lot. The key revelation about Sam's intense interest in one of his employees, Christopher Valence (a starchy Dan Bittner), a young man who has just lost his mother, can be seen looming from a distance, despite a sexual red herring that swims briefly into the plot. 
 More crucially, Mr. Greenberg's characters, while typically loquacious, seem provisional and sketchy, blurry sepia-toned images of people rather than three-dimensional beings. They mostly seem to be talking aimlessly at one another, or at us. (They do look striking, though, in Catherine Zuber's deluxe period costumes on John Lee Beatty's swanky but stylized set.)
 The emotional temperature of the critical relationship between Sam, played stolidly by Mr. Harelik, and Ms. Hecht's Amy, an overmedicated depressive well before her time, doesn't rise above a simmer until the play's fraught final moments. The climax is generated by Amy's discovery that her life has been despoiled by lies and mercenary transactions. She unleashes a few short arias denouncing the exploitative rules by which life's game is played, and cynical avowals to get some of her own back before it's too late. But the speeches have an empty ring because Mr. Greenberg has only limply presented the pathos of the Hammer marriage.
 His decision to set the play in the days just before the Wall Street crash is presumably meant to carry symbolic weight, with the tensions in the Hammers' empty marriage meant to echo, in microcosm, fault lines in the larger culture bred by the boom years. (The big smash is foreshadowed in joking references to mishaps at Sam's store.) 
 But Mr. Greenberg doesn't really rise to that task, either. At one point his dreamy heroine announces that she can't stand snow because ''it lacks precision.'' Her yearning for clarity is likely to shared by audiences at this unfocused and disappointing new play.

The House in Town

By Richard Greenberg; directed by Doug Hughes; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Catherine Zuber; lighting by Brian MacDevitt; original music and sound by David Van Tieghem; stage manager, James FitzSimmons; general manager, Adam Siegel; production manager, Jeff Hamlin. Presented by the Lincoln Center Theater, under the direction of Andre Bishop and Bernard Gersten. At the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Through July 2. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes.

WITH: Becky Ann Baker (Jean Eliot), Dan Bittner (Christopher Valence), Mark Harelik (Sam Hammer), Jessica Hecht (Amy Hammer), Armand Schultz (Con Eliot), Barbara McCulloh (the Hammers' Maid) and Matt Dickson (the Hammers' Footman).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Harelik and Jessica Hecht in ''The House in Town.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%) Theater; Reviews

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Richard Greenberg; Doug Hughes; Mark Harelik; Jessica Hecht

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



417 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Emancipation Remains a Work in Progress

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Slavery, it could be argued, didn't really end in the United States until civil rights legislation was passed in the 1960's. That was a full century after the Emancipation Proclamation. Or the ''Emancipation Approximation,'' as the artist Kara Walker calls it in a series of hallucinatory silkscreen prints that turn the Old South into a compassless moral state, in which slave and master alike are adrift. 
 Ms. Walker's witty, poetic, wicked images are among the high points of ''Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery,'' the second of three exhibitions organized by the New-York Historical Society on American slavery. The first, last year's ''Slavery in New York,'' was archival in nature, made up of relics from the past. ''Legacies'' is very much of the present, with some of the art made for the occasion. 
 I came to it with doubts. Topical art, like occasional poetry, is hard to pull off. It can be fleet and fervent, sharpened by its thematic parameters. It can just as easily feel rigged, overpitched, speechifying. ''Legacies'' solves the potential problems by creating a large, textured exhibition experience, a kind of aesthetic support system. If a given piece is too thin or too arcane, it's O.K. It's part of the argument. It keeps you looking, thinking and rethinking. This is the historical society's first-ever contemporary art show. I have no doubt there will be others. 
 The show is lucky in its curator, Lowery Stokes Sims, president of the Studio Museum in Harlem. She has a sharp, seasoned eye and knows that ''contemporary'' spans generations. 
 Working with Cynthia R. Copeland and Kathleen Hulser of the historical society, she has brought together older artists (Willie Birch, Faith Ringgold, Betye Saar) with others in their 20's and 30's (Fatima Allotey, Cedric Smith, Jeff Sonhouse). Most, however, like Ms. Walker, made their names in the 1980's and 90's, when identity politics coalesced as a volatile cultural movement. As a subject, slavery naturally invites polemics, and this show is not shy of them. Ms. Ringgold's ''Slave Rape Story Quilt'' (1985) includes explicit images and texts about sexual violence. Carrie Mae Weems incorporates a Civil War-era photograph of a male slave's scarred back into a multimedia piece. Whitfield Lovell, in a characteristically lucid drawing, enshrines the image of a lynched body in a florid Victorian frame. Recent video interviews taped by the American Anti-Slavery Group document the persistence of chattel bondage in Africa and elsewhere.
 But most of the 32 artists approach their theme obliquely. Kerry James Marshall highlights the faces of individual onlookers in a 1930 photograph of a lynching, leaving the act itself obscured. The hanging figures in ink drawings by Eli Kince are half-abstract silhouettes; they could be pods on a tree. A crystalline painting by Malcolm Bailey titled ''Hold, Separate but Equal'' (1969), the show's earliest piece, turns 19th-century diagrams of slave ships into a scathing separate-but-equal emblem. 
 Ms. Sims is clearly intent on demonstrating that political art can be as much about transformation as about information. Lorenzo Pace evokes his family's history, from slavery to the present, in an invitingly bright-colored, wall-filling collage of images and objects. A fountain designed by Algernon Miller and dedicated to Frederick Douglass looks, in a scale model, like a sky of shining stars. Leslie King-Hammond and Jose J. Mapily turn the memory of an African-American settlement leveled to make way for Central Park into a magical theater-altar called ''Celestial Praise House for Seneca Village.'' 
 Some of the work is very close to theater. In a video filmed at the historical society, Bradley McCallum and Jacqueline Tarry slowly turn through space in interracial union. On paper the idea sounds labored; on film it looks great. Ellen Driscoll's installation, based on Harriet Jacobs's 1861 ''Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,'' looks fussy and cluttered until you enter the camera obscura environment at its center. Close the door behind you, and you're in the ghostly, locked-in world that Jacobs experienced for seven years as a fugitive slave hiding in an attic.
 It's almost impossible to imagine the feelings such confinement would provoke. Fury has to be one, and it sizzles just below the surface in much of the art here: in Renee Cox's mesmerizing self-portrait as a machete-wielding rebel slave; in an installation by Fred Wilson, ''Liberty/ Liberte,'' festooned 19th-century busts of George Washington and Napoleon with iron shackles and manacles; and in Ms. Walker's bad-dream visions, calculated to let no one pass without a reaction, and to let no reaction be easy or ''right,'' or less than intense. 
 American slavery -- what it did, what it is still doing -- remains an incendiary topic, as racial discrimination becomes subtler, harder to pin down, played out along lines of class and economics. The topic has also gained importance with the developing diaspora-consciousness of the last few decades, embodied here in a photograph by Maria Magdalena Campos-Pons of herself and her mother, Cubans of African descent. 
 Although the two women stand apart, each holds one end of a single long, knotted strand of colored beads. It isn't a heavy, binding chain; it's a connecting thread, linking generations through a mutual history. That history was cruel; the emotions it raises are complicated and changing. But its reality, revisited and rethought, can be a source of power rather than depletion. Ms. Campos-Pons has titled her family portrait ''Replenishing.''

''Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery'' remains at the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, through January.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Replenishing,'' a photograph by Maria Magdalena Campos-Pons of herself and her mother. (Photo by The New-York Historical Society)(pg. E1)
Left, Kara Walker's ''Scene 19'' from the ''Emancipation Approximation'' series. Right, ''Sow Good Seeds,'' by Whitfield Lovell.
 An installation by Fred Wilson in ''Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery'' at the New-York Historical Society. (Photographs from New-York Historical Society)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); SLAVERY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); SEXTING (75%); EXHIBITIONS (71%); POETRY (71%); SEX OFFENSES (60%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: New-York Historical Society

PERSON: JIM MARSHALL (58%) Holland Cotter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



418 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: Stephen Hawking Takes Beijing; Now, Will Science Follow?

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 19 

 BODY:
Like an otherworldly emperor, Stephen Hawking rolled his wheelchair onto the stage of the Great Hall of the People on Monday, bringing with him the royalty of science and making China, for this week at least, the center of the cosmos. 
 Slouching in profile, draped in black and moving no more than an eyelid to send his words to a mesmerized audience of 6,000, Dr. Hawking ruminated on the origin of the universe as the headliner of an international physics conference.
''We are close to answering an age-old question,'' he concluded. ''Why are we here? Where did we come from?''
 But as weighty as his speech was, his mere presence was a powerful symbol of what China is and would like to be. 
 China wants to stand up scientifically, as it is beginning to economically, and it is pouring money and talent into the sciences, particularly physics. Jie Zhang, director general of basic sciences for the Chinese academy, said his budget had been increasing 17 percent a year for the last few years as China tried to ramp up research spending to about 2.5 percent of its gross domestic product. By comparison, the United States spends slightly less than 2 percent, according to the National Science Foundation. 
 Among the big-budget items on the table, Dr. Zhang said, are a giant 500-meter-diameter radio telescope in China's outback to study microwaves from the Big Bang and a multinational particle-physics project, known as the Daya Bay Reactor Neutrino Experiment to study the ghostly elementary particles known as neutrinos. 
 To keep track of all this activity, the United States National Science Foundation opened an office in Beijing last month. The foundation noted that China had gone from fourth in the world to third in research and development expenditures from 2000 to 2006.
 While some scientists express doubts that China is open enough to foster top-tier science, others are enthusiastic. 
 ''China is changing at a rate that is truly amazing,'' said David J. Gross, the director of the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics in Santa Barbara, Calif., and a recent Nobel Prize winner, who has been visiting to help reorganize the Beijing theoretical institute into a model that can be used for future research institutes.
 Dr. Hawking's talk was part of the very public kickoff of Strings 2006, which has drawn 800 of the world's brightest and most ambitious physicists here for a week to take stock of string theory, their vaunted ''theory of everything'' that says the elementary constituents of nature are submicroscopic vibrating strings. 
 Imagine, several string theorists in the audience mused, if a physics conference in the United States started in the House of Representatives.
 As he opened the conference, Chun-Li Bai, the executive vice president of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, stressed that basic scientific research had a ''high visibility'' in the most recent of China's five-year plans. ''The next 50 years will be of beauty for the development of Chinese science and technology, as well as economic development,'' he said.
 Calling string theory the cutting edge of curiosity, Shing-Tung Yau, a Harvard mathematics professor and the meeting's chief organizer, said he hoped to make China more involved in the field. ''I want to put on a good show,'' he said.
 Dr. Hawking, 64, is always a good show, and his arrival set off a stellar burst of camera flashes worthy of any rock star. A cosmologist at the University of Cambridge, he has been in a wheelchair for most of his life because of amytrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease. But he has nevertheless become one of the leading gravitational theorists, an avatar of mysteries of black holes and the origin of spacetime, as well as a best-selling author, a father of three, an indefatigable world traveler and a guest star on ''The Simpsons'' and ''Star Trek: The Next Generation.''
 He speaks with the aid of a computer-driven voice synthesizer. He used to operate it with his thumb but is now so weak that he has to use an infrared device that tracks his eye movements. So the camera flashes were potentially catastrophic, and Dr. Yau ordered the photographers away.
 Dr. Hawking's star turn, across the street from the large portrait of Mao Zedong, also had historic resonance. In the Cultural Revolution, Mao denounced Einstein and his work as reactionary and bourgeois. Groups of scientists and scholars were set up to criticize relativity because it appeared to collide with Marxist dogma that the universe was infinite and endless, eternally embroiled in a sort of cosmic class struggle.
 History has buried those aspects of Marxist thought. Chinese leaders now are technocrats, not ''cosmocrats,'' as Yinghong Cheng, a historian at Delaware State University who has studied the cultural revolution, put it. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao wished good health to Dr. Hawking.
 Hardly a week goes by without an announcement of another research initiative or new investment in a building or an institute. It is hard to find an American physicist who is not on his way to China to consult or collaborate, or has just come from China, glowing about the experience. 
 ''The Chinese are so smart they knock your socks off,'' said Andrew Strominger, a Harvard string theorist who visits here often. ''The impression you get when you go over there is that China is going to take over the world soon.''
 This week, Fred Kavli, the inventor and philanthropist whose foundation has endowed 10 research institutes in the West, announced that he would endow two new Kavli institutes in Beijing -- at the Institute for Theoretical Physics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences and at Beijing University's Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics -- for several million dollars each. Both will linked in a network with the others. Every summer, hundreds of Chinese-American scientists, so-called overseas Chinese, leave their posts in the United States and elsewhere to return to help out, lured by lucrative salaries, prestige and the chance to ''help China.'' 
 Marvin I. Cohen, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is president of the American Physical Society, said physics had come in for special attention in this effort, for its centrality to science and what he calls its rigorous approach.
 Dr. Cohen was impressed by an up-to-date physics building that he saw in Beijing. ''Someone writes a $10 million check, and they build the building in Beijing that we wanted in Berkeley,'' he said.
 Putting up buildings is easy compared with filling them with the right people. Despite all the hype, most researchers say, their best students are so far staying in the United States. The system, everyone seems to agree, is rife with politics, and the sudden influx of money has created opportunities for corruption and fraud.
 Last month, a star chip designer, Jin Chen, was fired by Shanghai Jiaotong University after a Web site run by a biochemist in San Diego, Shi-min Fang, disclosed that his design for a ballyhooed new signal-processing chip had been stolen. 
 That and similar incidents led 120 biologists to sign a letter written by a researcher at Indiana University, Xin-Yuan Fu, calling for a government office to investigate science misconduct. The Education Ministry has since set up a special commission to study misconduct. Dr. Yau said he was pleased to see China take the problem seriously, adding that there were many more incidents of fraud. 
 ''They want to catch up too fast,'' Dr. Yau said. ''They want to leapfrog.''
 Some scientists remain skeptical. Rather than adding a government commission, China should safeguard research by encouraging openness, said Fang Li-Zhi, an astrophysicist now at the University of Arizona who fled to the United States Embassy in the massacre of democracy movement demonstrators in the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989. 
 Today, he noted, the Chinese characters for his name are blocked on the Chinese Internet.
 ''You should allow people to speak, and share their opinion freely,'' he said. ''That is a basic foundation.'' 
 Dr. Gross, who was in China at the time of the Tiananmen massacre and resisted returning for 13 years, said that culture change was the difficult part of China's modernization but that there were positive signs. He recalled seeing plans for a building that the Institute for Theoretical Physics is constructing and being horrified to find it made up of little rooms.
 ''It looked like a prison,'' he said.
 The latest philosophy in the West is to make physics buildings like irregular little mazes with blackboards and couches around every other corner, to encourage encounters and collaboration. The Beijing institute, he said, is now planning to remodel the inside of its building.
 ''A lot of people ask for advice but are hesitant to accept it,'' Dr. Gross said. ''In China, they are totally open to exploring how other countries do it. They are totally unarrogant about accepting advice.''
 Dr. Gross, who has a well-known fondness of cigars, was smoking one under a giant drawing of Mao backstage after his own talk on Monday at the Great Hall when an official came in and said nobody had done that since Deng Xiaoping, China's former paramount leader who died in 1997.
 But, Dr. Gross related with a smile, ''He said, 'You're allowed.' ''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on June 20 about the science boom in China misstated the origin of a report that led to the dismissal of Chen Jin, a computer-chip designer at Shanghai Jiaotong University, on accusations of scientific fraud. The allegations were first reported on Chinese Web sites and in Chinese newspapers, not on a Web site run by Shi-min Fang, a biochemist in San Diego.

GRAPHIC: Photos: STAR POWER -- The Great Hall of the People in Beijing was packed yesterday for talks by Stephen Hawking and other physicists. (Photographs by Miranda Mimi Kuo for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 CELEBRITIES -- Students flock to see, from left, the mathematician Shing-Tung Yau and the physicists David J. Gross, Stephen Hawking and Andrew Strominger. (Photographs by Miranda Mimi Kuo for The New York Times)(pg. F3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (72%); ETHICS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); POLITICS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Great Hall of the People (Beijing, China); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Research; Politics and Government; Ethics; Science and Technology; Physics; Strings 2006 (Conference); Freedom and Human Rights; Handicapped

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%) Cambridge University

PERSON: Dennis Overbye; Stephen (Dr) Hawking

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) China; Beijing (China); China

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



419 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3191 words

HEADLINE: Next Victim Of Warming: The Beaches

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
When scientists consider the possible effects of global warming, there is a lot they don't know. But they can say one thing for sure: sea levels will rise. 
 This rising water will be felt along the artificially maintained beaches of New Jersey, in the vanishing marshes of Louisiana, even on the ocean bluffs of California. According to a 2000 report by the Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment, at least a quarter of the houses within 500 feet of the United States coast may be lost to rising seas by 2060. There were 350,000 of these houses when the report was written, but today there are far more.
''If it is as bad as people are saying, at some point it will be a crisis,'' said Thomas Tomasello of Tallahassee, Fla., a lawyer who represents many owners of coastal property. But he does not dwell on it. ''I cannot deal with sea level rise,'' he said. ''That's such a huge issue.'' 
 Though most of the country's ocean beaches are eroding, few coastal jurisdictions consider sea level rise in their coastal planning, and still fewer incorporate the fact that the rise is accelerating. Instead, they are sticking with policies that geologists say may help them in the short term but will be untenable or even destructive in the future.
 Florida is a good example. To prepare for hurricane season, which began June 1 and has already brought Tropical Storm Alberto, Floridians were still repairing storm damage from 2005 and even 2004, building or repairing walls to shield beachfront buildings. 
 Until May 1, when turtle nesting season forced them to stop, they were also pumping hundreds of thousands of cubic yards of sand onto eroded beaches. Florida has relied on this approach for decades, but after the past few storm seasons, there has been an increase in applications for sea wall permits, many from Mr. Tomasello's clients. ''If you have a house or a condo that's threatened, it's really the only alternative,'' he said. 
 Maintaining eroding beaches with artificial infusions of sand is difficult and costly, and as sea levels rise, it may become economically impractical or even impossible. ''The combination of sea walls and rising sea level will accelerate the rate of land loss in front of those sea walls,'' said Peter Howd, an oceanographer who conducts shoreline research for the United States Geological Survey in St. Petersburg. ''So people with a sea wall and a beach in front of it will end up with just a sea wall.''
 Many people ''want to disagree'' that global warming is a threat to the coast, said Daniel Trescott, a planner on the staff of the Southwest Florida Regional Planning Council, one of 11 such boards in the state. ''But the first place you see these impacts is on the beach.''
 The council is participating in a federal program to map areas that are vulnerable to rising sea levels, identify crucial infrastructure there and assess how much will probably end up protected by armor. Mr. Trescott said he hoped that the effort would put sea levels ''on the radar, to start addressing how we are going to respond to this rise.''
 Elsewhere, scientists are studying data from ancient sediment formations to predict how the barrier islands that form most of the East and Gulf Coasts will respond to rising seas. ''As scientists, and especially as federal agency scientists, it's our responsibility to think long term,'' said S. Jeffress Williams, a coastal geologist at the United States Geological Survey in Woods Hole, Mass., who is organizing a session on sea level rise at a meeting of coastal scientists next year. ''What are the cumulative impacts we can expect over the next 50 to 100 years?''
 Dr. Williams pointed to a plan by the Army Corps of Engineers for beach maintenance on the South Shore of Long Island, from Fire Island to Montauk Point. The project relies on historical rates of sea level rise, measured by an array of instruments in many locations, rather than on predictions of future acceleration, said Cliff Jones, a project manager for the corps. That is typical of the corps, he said, ''to take advantage of what history has shown, as opposed to what might be predicted.'' 
 It is an understandable approach, Dr. Williams said, but ''it is going to build up false expectations.''
 As with climate change and other environmental problems that develop imperceptibly, it is hard for people to see rising sea levels as a threat. 
 ''It's a slow process,'' Dr. Howd said. ''It's not something that is visible right now or next week or a year from now.''
 And the remedies are not attractive, to say the least. Few coastal residents want to see their towns walled off and surrounded by water. And few want to elevate their houses by 20 feet or more, as flooding experts are beginning to recommend in some coastal areas. The approach favored by many scientists, a gradual retreat from the coast, is a perennial nonstarter among real estate interests and their political allies. 
 ''Socioeconomically, politically, it's an ugly mess,'' Dr. Howd said.

The Rising Tide
 Since the Industrial Revolution, and particularly in the last 50 years, the burning of fossil fuels has been sending heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere. In the last century, global sea levels have risen by about eight inches. 
 Some of the rise -- scientists argue over how much -- is because of natural variation, like changes in atmospheric pressures and winds over the Southern Ocean. But much of it results from warming; as water warms, it expands, occupying more space. 
 Also, warming melts inland glaciers and ice sheets, sending torrents of fresh water into the oceans. In 2001, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, convened by the United Nations, said that the rise in sea levels was accelerating. Their mid-range projection for 2100 was a rise of just under 20 inches from a 1990 baseline, partly because of this melting. Evidence reported since then suggests that the rise may be even faster. (If ice sheets on Greenland and Antarctica melt significantly, seas will rise by 20 feet or more, but few scientists expect that to happen in this century.)
 Even a rise of one or two feet would allow ''the waves, the tides, the storms to impact parts of the beaches and marshes and estuaries that they don't reach right now,'' Dr. Howd said. 
 How much depends on the geography of the area. For example, much of Florida is so low that a one-foot rise in sea level would send water 100 feet inland. Dr. Howd, 49, who lives in St. Petersburg, said that is one reason he does not expect to retire there. His house is about 600 feet from the beach, but only about 6 feet above sea level.
 Undeveloped beaches and wetlands deal with encroaching seas by shifting to higher elevations inland. The barrier islands migrate, in effect, as storms send sand washing over them from ocean to lagoon. The ocean side erodes, but sand piles up on the back side. 
 ''The beach is attempting to find an elevation at which it can maintain its shape,'' said Laura J. Moore, a geologist who is working with Dr. Williams at Woods Hole while on sabbatical from Oberlin College.
 Dr. Moore is using data on past barrier island migration to predict how coastal barriers will fare as the sea level rise accelerates. For any stretch of coast, she said, the answer depends on a number of factors, including geology, wave patterns and sand supply, whether natural or artificial. But in general, the faster the sea level rises, the faster the barrier islands will have to retreat.

The Problem With Walls
 At present rates of sea level rise, Dr. Moore said, the computer model she is using ''suggests the barriers can maintain themselves, if they are allowed to migrate.'' But if a sea wall or other infrastructure is in the way, the island is pinned down. Sand that would wash over is blocked as the island erodes. In time, rising water meets the wall and drowns the beach. Meanwhile, storm waves scour the wall's base and erode the underwater beach slope. ''Eventually the sea wall collapses because the situation is so extreme.'' 
 Now the island is free to move, but it may be too late, she said. If water continues to rise, the island may just disintegrate. 
 That is already happening on the islands that form the Outer Banks of North Carolina, according to Stan Riggs and Dorothea V. Ames, geologists at East Carolina University. The islands have been pinned down for 70 years by an artificial dune -- a wall, in effect -- built during the Depression by the Civilian Conservation Corps. 
 In their book ''Drowning the North Carolina Coast'' (North Carolina Sea Grant, 2003), they say perennial washouts of the road connecting the islands show that ''large segments of the Outer Banks are already collapsing.'' If even the 2001 estimates from the United Nations panel are correct, they say, there will be ''major land loss.''
 A recent study led by Michael Oppenheimer, a climate researcher at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton, said a sea level rise of two to four feet would be devastating in New Jersey. For example, the study found that Cape May would ''attenuate, change in composition and potentially disappear.''
 What does this mean for people whose houses or businesses are on the beach? ''They may be difficult to maintain,'' Dr. Moore said. ''We have to start thinking about that.'' 

Holding the Line
 There are those who doubt that things will be so bad. One of them is Robert G. Dean of the University of Florida, one of the nation's leading coastal engineers. Like many coastal scientists, he attributes much of the beach erosion Florida has experienced to coastal inlets, most of them artificial, that interfere with the natural flow of sand. And he does not foresee the kind of sea level rise predicted by the United Nations panel.
 If sea levels rise in the 21st century at the same rate they did in the 20th, Dr. Dean said -- ''and if I had to, I'd bet on that''-- his fellow engineers ''would be able to hold 99 percent of the Florida shoreline.''
 If sea levels follow the panel's midrange estimate of a nearly 20-inch rise, ''then I'd back off that 99 percent to say 70-80-85 percent,'' he said. 
 Finding replacement sand for eroding beaches would be troublesome -- it is already hard to find -- but, he said, ''they will import sand or bring it from inland or maybe manufacture it'' by grinding up stone, as he said was done years ago in Monaco. ''People will be creative.'' 
 Of course, it will be expensive. Many Florida beaches exist now only because they are artificially maintained, and by some estimates at least 20 percent of the state's coast is armored, a percentage certain to rise. Like other states, Florida has setback requirements and other regulations that in theory limit sea wall construction, but owners of buildings in imminent danger are often given emergency permission to protect them. And once walls are in place, they are rarely removed.
 The result is ever more stretches of beach that must be artificially replenished. According to Mr. Trescott of the Southwest Florida Regional Planning Council, government agencies have spent ''about half a billion dollars'' on beach building in Florida since the 2004 hurricane season. That's a bargain, according to many state and local officials, who point out that beaches pump $40 billion or more into Florida's economy each year. 
 But it is far from clear that replenishing them will be affordable or even possible in an era of rising seas. ''You are probably conservatively talking about hundreds of millions of cubic meters of sand, and for the most part that sand is not available,'' Dr. Williams said. Counting on that approach ''is the wrong thing to do unless all that is sorted out,'' he said. 
 Even Dr. Dean believes that a rise of three feet or more will mean trouble.
 ''I don't believe that's going to happen,'' he said, pointing out that people who study sea level rise ''may have somewhat of a vested interest in keeping the project alive.'' But if it did happen, he conceded, ''that would not be good at all.''

Waiting for Sand
 Volusia County, on the east coast of Florida, was hit hard by the hurricanes of 2004. ''In some areas we lost 6 or 7 feet of beach grade, and the dune system cut back in some areas as much as 20 to 25 feet,'' said Jennifer Winters, who manages turtle habitats for the county. 
 Repairs began at once, with property owners winning emergency permission to install sandbags, corrugated vinyl bulkheads, sea walls and other devices, and work was still under way this spring. 
 At East 27th Street Park in New Smyrna Beach, workers replaced a fallen sea wall and filled in behind it. Beginning in January, a pipeline disgorged a slurry of water and sand, dredged from the Ponce de Leon Inlet nearly five miles away, onto the beach. According to David May, an engineer with Subaqueous Services, a dredging contractor based in Orlando that did the work, 743,000 cubic yards of additional sand would be pumped onto a five-mile stretch of beach, at a cost of about $14 million. 
 People who lived on the beach ''kept complaining to me about their property, and I said, 'hold on, sand is coming,' '' Ms. Winters recalled recently as she drove a county truck along the beach, passing houses and condominium developments armored with concrete, vinyl sheet piling, piles of rock, sandbags or even wooden planks.
 She made the drive at low tide; at high tide the water would reach the walls in many areas, leaving no dry beach. ''You cannot even walk the beach at high tide,'' she said.
 That is typical of armored beaches, researchers who study them say, and it is one of the reasons environmentalists worry about the armor-and-fill approach.
 In research in Santa Barbara, Calif., that was reported in the winter issue of the journal Shore and Beach, Jenifer E. Dugan and David M. Hubbard of the University of California, Santa Barbara, found that on armored beaches, there was much less accumulation of seaweed and other drift material, far fewer insects and crustaceans that feed on or in this wrack, fewer intertidal species like sand crabs and clams, and fewer species of birds.
 Their conclusion? ''The combination of rising sea levels predicted by climate change models and the increasing extent of coastal armoring will accelerate beach loss and increase ecological consequences for sandy beach communities and shorebirds in many regions.'' 
 The dredging process itself inflicts environmental damage by altering currents, changing the way sand moves in the water or making water murky, according to Ken Lindeman, a senior scientist with the advocacy group Environmental Defense. So-called borrow sites where sand is dredged (Dr. Lindeman calls them underwater ''craters'') may not recover their plant and animal biodiversity, he said, and little is known about the effects of artificial beach building on habitats near shore, where, he said, ''juvenile fish develop before migrating offshore and where the greatest impact of coastal construction is.''
 ''The assumption is made that the fish just swim away,'' but fish settle in these areas as larvae, he said. ''They are not adapted to swimming away.'' 
 Dr. Lindeman pointed out that advocates for anglers were beginning to talk about these problems. And surfers are starting to speak up when dredging projects threaten to disrupt wave patterns they favor. ''Surfers, divers, fishermen are trying to get answers to excellent questions,'' he said.

Does the Government Know?
 James Titus, an Environmental Protection Agency project manager for sea level rise who is leading an agency mapping effort, wrote an essay for a law review a few years ago in which he argued that the nation needed to make decisions on whether or how wetlands and beaches should be allowed to migrate inland. Otherwise, he wrote, government policy is saying, in effect, that ''wetlands and beaches are important resources that must be preserved for the duration of this generation, but whether they survive for the next 50 to 100 years is not our problem.''
 Mr. Titus titled his essay, published in the Golden Gate Law Review in 2000, ''Does the U.S. Government Realize That the Sea Is Rising?'' It was accompanied by a disclaimer noting that it did not represent the views of the E.P.A.
 Reached by telephone, Mr. Titus said he was no longer allowed to discuss such issues publicly and referred questions to the agency's press office, which would not allow him to speak about it on the record. Instead, requests for on-the-record information were referred to Bill Wehrum, the agency's acting assistant administrator for air and radiation.
 ''The administration's strategy for dealing with climate change is to continue to put significant resources into understanding climate change,'' Mr. Wehrum said. ''The goal is to develop information that will be useful for local planners. This is about looking at coastal areas and assessing how those areas are used and then helping people with the question of how much protection they might want to provide for those areas if sea level continues to rise.''
 In general, Mr. Wehrum said, it seemed quite likely that people would want to protect developed areas and might be willing to let undeveloped areas like wildlife refuges or coastal farms migrate.
 Meanwhile, though, people like Ms. Winters and Dr. Williams watch as, one by one, people make decisions that will collectively have big implications for beaches. 
 ''The levee failures and flooding of Katrina were no surprise to geologists who studied the area,'' Dr. Williams said, and damage from future coastal storms will not surprise them either. But he said, ''I don't think we have the political will at the administration level'' to confront the issue.
 ''We're rebuilding bigger and better,'' Dr. Williams said. ''We see that in every storm.''

 loss of beaches. 

FALSE SECURITY

1. Sea walls damage eroding beaches first by reducing the size of the beach.
2. As water moves in, it eventually meets the wall, drowning the beach.
3. Eventually, the wave action causes the underlying sand to erode, undermining the wall.

(David Constantine and Al Granberg/The New York Times)
(Sources by Permanent Service for Mean Sea Level; E. Robert Thieler, U.S. Geological Survey; ''Against the Tide,'' by Cornelia Dean)(pg. F1)

Chart/Map: ''These Islands Move . . .''
Barrier islands are dynamic ecosystems that are constantly changing. Waves, currents, tides, wind, sea level changes and sediment supply all cause the islands to migrate. Scientists at the U.S. Geological Survey have done a series of models to explore how a stretch of barrier island in North Carolina may have arrived at its current position. This is one model.

Map of North Carolina highlighting the study area.

. . . but Construction Continues
Nearly every year, storms damage Dauphin Island, directly south of Mobile, Ala. Hurricane Katrina caused extensive overwash, sending sand from the ocean side of the island to the land side. Many residents are once again rebuilding.

(Source by Laura J. Moore, Oberlin College; United States Geological Survey [photos])(pg. F4)

GRAPHIC: Photo: CLOSER AND CLOSER -- On one side of a sea wall in Palm Beach, Fla., are multimillion-dollar houses
 on the other, seaweed shows encroaching high tide. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Despite Evidence of Danger . . .''Over the next century, sea levels are expected to rise at an accelerated pace, putting many coastal communities in danger.Map of the southern part of the U.S. showing Coastal vulnerability to future sea level rise and Monthly sea level change in inches.. . . They Just Keep BuildingFew people consider rising sea levels and instead continue building on oceanfront property. Traditional solutions to beach erosion like building sea walls (shown below), often cause

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (91%); COASTAL AREAS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); OCEANS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (89%); EROSION (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); HURRICANES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%) Beaches; Coastal Areas; Weather ; Global Warming; Floods; Coast Erosion; Area Planning and Renewal; Beaches; Research; Islands; Land Use Policies; Beaches

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%) Heinz Center for Science, Economics and the Environment; United States Geological Survey

PERSON: Cornelia Dean; Peter Howd

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Outer Banks (Nc)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



420 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: A Broad Sell-Off on Worries About Slower Growth 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
This year's gain for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was erased yesterday, as a drop in confidence among home builders and a Federal Reserve official's comments pointed to slower economic growth.
 Exxon Mobil and Alcoa, the world's biggest aluminum company, were among the worst performers as oil and metals prices declined. Lennar and Toll Brothers slid after an index of builders' confidence reached an 11-year low. 
Jack Guynn, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, told a group of Georgia bankers that inflation figures were ''bothersome,'' affirming his own remarks and those of fellow central bank policy makers earlier this month. 
 The Fed, whose next decision on interest rates will be announced June 29, may raise rates for a 17th straight time.
 ''People are saying 'Oh, gosh, we've got inflation and a slowing economy, that spells stagflation,' '' said Randy Bateman, chief investment officer at the Huntington Capital Corporation, based in Columbus, Ohio. 
 The S.&P. 500 retreated 11.40 points, or 0.91 percent, to 1,240.14. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 72.44 points, or 0.66 percent, to 10,942.11. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 19.53 points, or 0.92 percent, to 2,110.42.
 Almost nine stocks fell for every two that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 1.52 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was unchanged from Friday, at 5.13 percent. Its price fell 2/32, to 99 29/32. Bond yields move inversely to prices.
 Confidence among home builders dropped because of higher mortgage rates. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of builder confidence declined to 42, the lowest since April 1995, from 46 in May. A number below 50 means that pessimists outnumber optimists.
 The home builder Lennar dropped $1.01, to $43.88, and Toll, the largest builder of luxury homes, lost 63 cents to $26.54.
 Oil prices fell on speculation that tensions between the United States and Iran might ease as Iran showed signs of curbing its nuclear program. Crude oil for July delivery slid 90 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $68.98 a barrel in New York.
 Exxon Mobil slid $1.41, to $57.39.
 Alcoa fell 99 cents, to $29.10. U.S. Steel, the biggest American-based steel maker, lost $1.74, to $61.20. Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold, which owns the world's biggest gold mine and the second-largest copper mine, fell $1.33, to $46.97. The copper producer Phelps Dodge declined $3.03,, to $77.07.
 General Motors advanced for the biggest gain in the Dow, after Delphi, a former unit of the company, expanded its buyouts of union workers. The agreement is part of a plan at G.M. and Delphi to cut jobs while avoiding strikes. G.M. added 75 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $26.35.
 Vonage, the pioneer of Internet phone service, tumbled $1.12, or 12 percent, to $8.48. Vonage was sued by Verizon Communications, which contended that Vonage infringed seven of its patents for Internet telephone technology. Verizon slipped 37 cents, to $32.17.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills.
(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.779	97.444	High Rate	4.830	5.055	Investment Rate	4.958	5.260	Low Rate	4.800	5.000	Median Rate	4.820	5.030	Total applied for	$50,007,453	$39,838,354	Accepted	$23,035,137	$20,261,616	Noncompetitive	$2,051,378	$1,494,596	

Both issues are dated June 22, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 21, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 21, 2006.

 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks the bills through March, April, May, and June.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COPPER MINING (83%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COPPER INDUSTRY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (63%); GOLD MINING (62%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Futures and Options Trading; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (80%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (71%); ALCOA INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); FCX (NYSE) (80%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (80%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (80%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (80%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (80%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (80%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (80%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (80%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (80%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (80%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (80%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



421 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: North Korea's Incredibly Bad Idea

 BODY:
No one can claim a very good track record for figuring out what North Korea is up to and why, and that plainly applies to the North's reported preparations for testing a long-range missile that one day may be capable of reaching the United States. Maybe North Korea is just jealous of all the attention Iran has been getting as a result of Tehran's recent nuclear bad behavior, and craves a spotlight of its own. Maybe Pyongyang, which hasn't tested such a long-range missile in eight years, wants to see if its new, more advanced model actually works. 
 Or maybe North Korea is perversely eager to see the United States speed up its missile-defense plans, Japan to become more hawkish on military issues and South Korean politicians who favor talking and trading with the North lose next year's elections.
 But if we cannot be sure of North Korea's motives, we can be reasonably sure of the consequences if Pyongyang does go ahead and launch the missile -- which Washington says, citing satellite photos, is now fully fueled and ready to go. And those consequences will be thoroughly bad for North Korea, for its region and for just about everyone else. They will immensely complicate negotiating the kind of nuclear deal North Korea is thought to want -- a grand bargain that would give it desperately needed economic help and long-sought security guarantees in exchange for abandoning its nuclear weapons program. 
 The consequences could be exceedingly grim for the rest of Northeast Asia as well. North Korea's previous long-range missile test in 1998 flew over Japanese airspace, shocking Japan out of its long postwar complacency about national defense. The main result has been a rise in military nationalism among Japanese politicians and the public. Another direct consequence has been increased Japanese reluctance to deal with North Korea. 
 Why North Korea would want to increase its isolation and antagonize its few friends like China and South Korea is hard to comprehend. But North Korea-watching is full of such mysteries. 
 Washington, for its part, has reacted sensibly, not wasting a lot of time on diplomatic rigmarole and delivering instead a clear and direct message to North Korea not to proceed with a missile test. We hope that North Korea's next surprise is to respond equally sensibly and cancel whatever plans it has for such a self-destructive move. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DISARMAMENT (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (91%); IRAN (88%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



422 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: The Race for Iran

BYLINE: By Flynt Leverett. 
Flynt Leverett, a former senior director for Middle East affairs at the National Security Council, is director of the Project on the Geopolitics and Geoeconomics of Energy Security at the New America Foundation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
AS the world watches the political maneuvering over restarting nuclear talks with Iran -- this time with American participation -- few are paying attention to a broader strategic competition that has started between the United States, Russia and China. Ultimately, this competition will decide not only the direction of Iran's nuclear activities but also its economic, political and military role in the Middle East and beyond. The outcome hinges on which countries will assume dominance in developing Iran's enormous oil and natural gas reserves. 
 Unfortunately, by refusing to consider a ''grand bargain'' with Iran -- that is, resolution of Washington's concerns about Tehran's weapons of mass destruction and support for terrorism in return for American security guarantees, an end to sanctions and normalization of diplomatic relations -- the Bush administration is courting failure in its nuclear diplomacy and paving the way for Russia and China to win the larger strategic contest. 
Iran has the world's second-largest proven reserves of conventional crude oil, after Saudi Arabia, and the second-largest reserves of natural gas, after Russia. Its relatively low production levels make it one of the few states with the potential to greatly increase its exports of both oil and gas over the next two decades. 
 As the world economy during this period will rely increasingly on the Middle East and the former Soviet Union for its energy needs, Iran's putative status as a hydrocarbon superpower will take on ever greater strategic importance. Add in its location, its population of nearly 70 million (the largest in the Middle East) and its ambitions to regional leadership, and the significance of Iran's future international role is undeniable.
 However, to expand its energy exports, Iran needs a great deal of capital and advanced technology from outside -- at least $160 billion over the next quarter century according to the International Energy Agency. Washington of course does all it can to block exactly such investment -- barring American energy companies from seeking business in Iran and threatening European and Japanese companies with fines and cutoffs of American components. 
 These measures -- along with repressive Iranian policies that scare off foreign investors -- have had an impact: since the Islamic Republic opened its oil and gas sectors to foreign energy companies in the early 1990's, it has attracted only $15 billion to $20 billion in European and Japanese investment. And as the nuclear issue has heated up, prospects for substantial increases in Western investment have virtually evaporated. 
 A senior Iranian diplomat told me this month that Iran can no longer ''wait for the West,'' and Tehran is now looking for alternative investors. In recent years, China has emerged as a potential large-scale partner. But while China can provide capital, its state-owned energy companies are not much more technically capable right now than Iran's. It will be a decade at least before China can fill all Iran's technical gaps. 
 This is where Russia comes in. Although Russian energy companies could not offer quite the same level of expertise as Western firms in the complexities of managing Iran's older oil reservoirs, they could in the next several years help the Islamic Republic develop its newer oil finds and, more significantly, realize its huge potential as a gas exporter. 
 In fact, the two countries have already held talks on possible ''coordination'' of Iranian gas exports with Gazprom, Russia's state-owned gas and oil behemoth. Iranian officials have told me that their government does not think Gazprom would be the ideal partner, compared with Western companies, but it deems such a deal preferable to continued stagnation. 
 From a Russian perspective, such a deal would have many benefits. Many industry experts feel that within just a few years, the amounts of gas that Gazprom is contracted to provide may exceed what the company on its own can bring to market. It has been trying to close the gap by purchasing additional gas from Central Asian states that rely on Russian pipelines to export their oil and gas. But at the same time, the United States is trying to help those ex-Soviet states build oil and gas pipelines that are outside of Moscow's control -- an effort the Kremlin interprets as a deliberate attempt to isolate and weaken Russia.
 Russian officials and commentators have complained to me in recent weeks about a new ''double standard'' in American policy -- one that criticizes the centralization of power in Russia but overlooks authoritarian abuses in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. The involvement of Russian energy companies in Iran would not only support Moscow's external energy strategy but would push back against perceived American efforts to undermine Russia's influence in Central Asia. 
 Together, Russia and Iran control almost half of the world's proven reserves of natural gas. If they coordinated their production and marketing decisions, these two countries could be twice as dominant in international gas markets as Saudi Arabia is in the global oil market. 
 And as China looks to deepen its own involvement in Iran, there would be opportunities for Chinese-Russian cooperation in developing Iranian resources, and collaborating against what both Beijing and Moscow see as excessive United States unilateralism in world affairs. By working together, Russia and China would further establish themselves as rising players in the Persian Gulf, where America has grown used to something like hegemonic status. 
 Against this backdrop, the Bush administration's approach to nuclear diplomacy with Iran is strategically shallow. The decision to encourage direct talks with Tehran generated many headlines but was really only a limited tactical adjustment to forestall an embarrassing collapse in coordination with America's key international partners. 
 By continuing to reject a grand bargain with Tehran, the Bush administration has done nothing to increase the chances that Iran will accept meaningful long-term restraints on its nuclear activities. It has also done nothing to ensure that the United States wins the longer-term struggle for Iran. Such a grand bargain is precisely what is required, not only to forestall Iran's effective nuclearization in the next three to five years, but also to position the United States for continued leadership in the Middle East for the next decade and beyond.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORISM (69%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (61%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN (88%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



423 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Palestinians Offered Plan To Ease Crisis

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 19 

 BODY:
As Palestinian leaders began paying overdue salaries with smuggled cash, a top European Union official arrived here on Monday to push forward a new plan aimed at easing the increasingly serious financial crunch among Palestinians. 
 The plan seeks to sidestep the Palestinian government, led by Hamas, classified by the European Union and the United States as a terrorist organization, while providing $125 million in subsidies for health and utilities, and in payments to poor Palestinians. Most Western aid has been cut off since Hamas took control of the Palestinian parliament in January.
The official, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the European Union's commissioner for external relations, met with the Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, and the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas. While the Israeli and Palestinian leaders have expressed reservations about parts of the temporary plan, both sides said after their meetings with Ms. Ferrero-Waldner that they hoped the plan would go forward. 
 ''We had good talks,'' said Mark Regev, spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry. ''We are looking at these proposals. We are going to continue having discussions.'' 
 The plan was agreed on last week by the so-called quartet engaged in the peace process here: the United Nations, the United States, the European Union and Russia. There was little disagreement among the members on the payments for health and utilities, but American officials agreed only reluctantly to European demands for payments to ease the hardships of the 165,000 Palestinian civil servants who have not been paid for the past four months. 
 Israel has also been most opposed to that part of the plan, worried that directly paying salaries would help prop up the Hamas government, which is under heavy pressure caused by the financial strain. The plan now calls for identifying the neediest Palestinians, who would be paid not in cash but by deposits to bank accounts, a process that Ms. Ferrero-Waldner acknowledged Monday would be complicated. 
 ''We will need some time,'' she told Reuters in an interview here. ''It is not that easy.''
 Palestinian leaders have contended that the money should go through the government, though the seriousness of the problems has left them with few options. 
 On Monday, the Hamas-led government began distributing $300 payments to 90,000 civil servants -- from money that Hamas leaders have smuggled into Gaza, because international banks have refused to transfer money to the government. Last week, the Hamas foreign minister, Mahmoud Zahar, personally ferried $20 million in cash in suitcases from Egypt. 
 Hamas and leaders of Fatah, the party pushed from power in January, continued Monday to hold talks aimed at quelling deadly clashes between the groups that have taken place in recent weeks, and at finding an agreement that could renew foreign aid. 
 Hamas refuses to recognize Israel's right to exist or to renounce violence -- two major conditions for Western aid to resume -- and negotiators are working on the complicated task of finding language that may satisfy both Hamas and donors. 
 In recent days, the Palestinian news media have reported that a deal may soon be reached. 
 ''Dialogue is continuing with the utmost seriousness,'' Ismail Haniya, the Palestinian prime minister and a top Hamas official, told reporters in Gaza on Monday.
 While the overall level of violence has subsided in recent days, two homemade Qassam rockets fell in Israel near the border with Gaza on Sunday, and an air-raid alarm went off Monday just before the Israeli president, Moshe Katsav, visited the town of Sderot, hard-hit by the missiles fired by Palestinian militants. 
 In the West Bank on Monday, a gunman opened fire on a bus carrying Israeli settlers, wounding three high school girls. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); HAMAS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); AL FATAH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); HAMAS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); TZIPORA LIVNI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



424 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Helmet Laws and Choice

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Free and Easy Riders'' (column, June 17):
 John Tierney's suggestions about giving motorcyclists an economic incentive to make the rational choice to wear a helmet has merit, but there will always be a sizable number of people, if not a majority, who will make bonehead decisions -- like using a four-ton S.U.V. for personal urban transportation, or smoking and so forth. 
It is that reason we make public policy choices for the greater good, often involving government regulation, taxation or other legislation. 
 We license drivers; we regulate public companies that provide things we cannot do without; we protect the land and the public health.

Robert M. Levine
Malvern, Pa., June 17, 2006

To the Editor:
 It seems like a no-brainer that high-profile and highly paid players like Ben Roethlisberger, the Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback, should have a clause written into their contracts specifically forbidding them to engage in risky activities that could threaten to incapacitate them, like riding a motorcycle without a helmet or skiing. 
 When a team like the Steelers is paying Mr. Roethlisberger millions, it should have the right to require him to take care of himself, or risk being in breach of contract.

Bernard Lowe
Merion, Pa., June 17, 2006

To the Editor:
 John Tierney did not mention a compelling requirement for the special license to ride without a helmet.
 In a bold font across the license: ORGAN DONOR.

Bob Heaslip
Ann Arbor, Mich., June 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ATHLETES (68%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (67%); CONTRACTS LAW (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); VEHICLE HELMET REGULATION (58%) Roads and Traffic; Football; Accidents and Safety; Wages and Salaries; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (91%) Pittsburgh Steelers

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (89%) Robert M Levine; Bernard Lowe; Bob Heaslip; Ben Roethlisberger; John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



425 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: Personality, Ideology And Bush's Terror Wars

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

The One Percent Doctrine
Deep Inside America's Pursuit of Its Enemies Since 9/11
By Ron Suskind
367 pages. Simon & Schuster. $27.
 The title of Ron Suskind's riveting new book, ''The One Percent Doctrine,'' refers to an operating principle that he says Vice President Dick Cheney articulated shortly after 9/11: in Mr. Suskind's words, ''if there was even a 1 percent chance of terrorists getting a weapon of mass destruction -- and there has been a small probability of such an occurrence for some time -- the United States must now act as if it were a certainty.'' He quotes Mr. Cheney saying that it's not about ''our analysis,'' it's about ''our response,'' and argues that this conviction effectively sidelines the traditional policymaking process of analysis and debate, making suspicion, not evidence, the new threshold for action. 
Mr. Suskind's book -- which appears to have been written with wide access to the former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, George Tenet, as well as to other C.I.A. officials and a host of sources at the F.B.I., and in the State, Defense and Treasury Departments -- is sure to be as talked about as his ''Price of Loyalty'' (2004) and the former counterterrorism czar Richard A. Clarke's ''Against All Enemies'' (2004).
 The book, which focuses on the 2001 to 2004 period, not only sheds new light on the Bush White House's strategic thinking and its doctrine of pre-emptive action, but also underscores the roles that personality and ideology played in shaping the administration's decision to go to war in Iraq. It describes how poorly prepared homeland security was (and is) for another terrorist attack, and looks at a series of episodes in the war on terror that often found the ''invisibles,'' who run intelligence and enforcement operations on the ground, at odds with the ''notables,'' who head the government. 
 In fleshing out key relationships among administration members -- most notably, between Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bush, Mr. Bush and Mr. Tenet, and Mr. Tenet and Condoleezza Rice, then the national security adviser -- it adds some big, revealing chunks to the evolving jigsaw-puzzle portrait of this White House and its modus operandi, while also giving the reader some up close and personal looks at the government's day-to-day operations in the war on terror.
 In ''The One Percent Doctrine,'' Mr. Suskind discloses that First Data Corporation -- one of the world's largest processors of credit card transactions and the parent company of Western Union -- began cooperating with the F.B.I. in the wake of 9/11, providing information on financial transactions and wire transfers from around the world. The huge data-gathering operation in some respects complemented the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program (secretly authorized by Mr. Bush months after the Sept. 11 attacks), which monitored specific conversations as well as combed through large volumes of phone and Internet traffic in search of patterns that might lead to terrorism suspects. 
 Despite initial misgivings on the part of Western Union executives, Mr. Suskind reports, the company also worked with the C.I.A. and provided real-time information on financial transactions as they occurred. 
 Mr. Suskind's book also reveals that Qaeda operatives had designed a delivery system (which they called a ''mubtakkar'') for a lethal gas, and that the United States government had a Qaeda source who said that plans for a hydrogen cyanide attack on New York City's subway system were well under way in early 2003, but the attack was called off -- for reasons that remain unclear -- by Osama bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri. The book also reports that Al Qaeda had produced ''extremely virulent'' anthrax in Afghanistan before 9/11, which ''could be easily reproduced to create a quantity that could be readily weaponized.'' 
 Just as disturbing as Al Qaeda's plans and capabilities are the descriptions of the Bush administration's handling of the war on terror and its willful determination to go to war against Iraq. That war, according to the author's sources who attended National Security Council briefings in 2002, was primarily waged ''to make an example'' of Saddam Hussein, to ''create a demonstration model to guide the behavior of anyone with the temerity to acquire destructive weapons or, in any way, flout the authority of the United States.'' 
 ''The One Percent Doctrine'' amplifies an emerging portrait of the administration (depicted in a flurry of recent books by authors as disparate as the Reagan administration economist Bruce Bartlett and the former Coalition Provisional Authority adviser Larry Diamond) as one eager to circumvent traditional processes of policy development and policy review, and determined to use experts (whether in the C.I.A., the Treasury Department or the military) not to help formulate policy, but simply to sell predetermined initiatives to the American public.
 Mr. Suskind writes that the war on terror gave the president and vice president ''vast, creative prerogatives'': ''to do what they want, when they want to, for whatever reason they decide'' and to ''create whatever reality was convenient.'' The potent wartime authority granted the White House in the wake of 9/11, he says, dovetailed with the administration's pre-9/11 desire to amp up executive power (diminished, Mr. Cheney and others believed, by Watergate) and to impose ''message discipline'' on government staffers.
 ''The public, and Congress, acquiesced,'' Mr. Suskind notes, ''with little real resistance, to a 'need to know' status -- told only what they needed to know, with that determination made exclusively, and narrowly, by the White House.'' 
 Within the government, he goes on, there was frequent frustration with the White House's hermetic decision-making style. ''Voicing desire for a more traditional, transparent policy process,'' he writes, ''prompted accusations of disloyalty,'' and ''issues argued, often vociferously, at the level of deputies and principals rarely seemed to go upstream in their fullest form to the president's desk, and if they did, it was often after Bush seemed to have already made up his mind based on what was so often cited as his 'instinct' or 'gut.' '' 
 This book augments the portrait of Mr. Bush as an incurious and curiously uninformed executive that Mr. Suskind earlier set out in ''The Price of Loyalty'' and in a series of magazine articles on the president and key aides. In ''The One Percent Doctrine,'' he writes that Mr. Cheney's nickname inside the C.I.A. was Edgar (as in Edgar Bergen), casting Mr. Bush in the puppet role of Charlie McCarthy, and cites one instance after another in which the president was not fully briefed (or had failed to read the basic paperwork) about a crucial situation.
 During a November 2001 session with the president, Mr. Suskind recounts, a C.I.A. briefer realized that the Pentagon had not told Mr. Bush of the C.I.A.'s urgent concern that Osama bin Laden might escape from the Tora Bora area of Afghanistan (as he indeed later did) if United States reinforcements were not promptly sent in. And several months later, he says, attendees at a meeting between Mr. Bush and the Saudis discovered after the fact that an important packet laying out the Saudis' views about the Israeli-Palestinian situation had been diverted to the vice president's office and never reached the president. 
 Keeping information away from the president, Mr. Suskind argues, was a calculated White House strategy that gave Mr. Bush ''plausible deniability'' from Mr. Cheney's point of view, and that perfectly meshed with the commander in chief's own impatience with policy details. Suggesting that Mr. Bush deliberately did not read the full National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq, which was delivered to the White House in the fall of 2002, Mr. Suskind writes: ''Keeping certain knowledge from Bush -- much of it shrouded, as well, by classification -- meant that the president, whose each word circles the globe, could advance various strategies by saying whatever was needed. He could essentially be 'deniable' about his own statements.'' 
 ''Whether Cheney's innovations were tailored to match Bush's inclinations, or vice versa, is almost immaterial,'' Mr. Suskind continues. ''It was a firm fit. Under this strategic model, reading the entire N.I.E. would be problematic for Bush: it could hem in the president's rhetoric, a key weapon in the march to war. He would know too much.'' 
 As for Mr. Tenet, this book provides a nuanced portrait of a man with ''colliding loyalties -- to the president, who could have fired him after 9/11 but didn't; and to his analysts, whom he was institutionally and emotionally committed to defend.'' It would become an increasingly untenable position, as the White House grew more and more impatient with the C.I.A.'s reluctance to supply readily the sort of intelligence it wanted. (A Pentagon unit headed by Douglas Feith was set up as an alternative to the C.I.A., to provide, in Mr. Suskind's words, ''intelligence on demand'' to both Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and the office of the vice president.) 
 While many C.I.A. analysts were deeply skeptical of the imminent danger posed by Mr. Hussein and simultaneously worried about the fallout of a possible invasion, the C.I.A., paradoxically enough, would become a favorite scapegoat for the administration's decision to go to war against Iraq, thanks in no small measure to Mr. Tenet's remark (quoted in Bob Woodward's 2004 book ''Plan of Attack'') that the existence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction was a ''slam dunk.'' In this volume Mr. Suskind reports that Mr. Tenet says he does not remember uttering those famous words: ''Doesn't dispute it. Just doesn't remember it.'' 
 Mr. Suskind credits Mr. Tenet with deftly using his personal bonds with ''key conditional partners'' in the war on terror, from President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan to King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. He depicts the former C.I.A. director as frequently being made by the White House ''to take the fall'' for his superiors, on matters including the administration's handling of prewar intelligence to the 16 disputed words in the president's State of the Union address, regarding Iraq's supposed efforts to obtain uranium from Africa. Because it was Mr. Tenet ''who brought analysis up the chain from the C.I.A.,'' Mr. Suskind writes, he ''was best positioned to assume blame. And Rice was adept at laying it on Tenet.'' 
 At the same time, Mr. Suskind suggests that Mr. Tenet acted as a kind of White House enabler: he writes that in the wake of 9/11, Mr. Tenet felt a ''mix of insecurity and gratitude'' vis-a-vis George W. Bush, and that eager to please his boss, he repeatedly pushed C.I.A. staff members to come up with evidence that might support the president's public statements. 
 In the days after 9/11 Mr. Bush defended the embattled C.I.A. chief to angry congressmen, and at that point, Mr. Suskind writes: ''George Tenet would do anything his President asked. Anything. And George W. Bush knew it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Suskind (Photo by Nancy Crampton)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); PARENT COMPANIES (60%); CREDIT CARDS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FIRST DATA CORP (80%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); WESTERN UNION CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (73%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Michiko Kakutani; Ron Suskind

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



426 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Rice Says North Korean Missile Test Would Be 'Provocative Act'

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and NORIMITSU ONISHI; Helene Cooper reported from Washington for this article, and Norimitsu Onishi from Tokyo.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warned North Korea again on Monday to refrain from testing a long-range ballistic missile, even as reports indicated that the North had taken the penultimate step of fueling the missile. 
 Continuing diplomatic efforts that have gathered force around the world, Ms. Rice, who had been on the telephone over the weekend with her counterparts in Asia and Europe on the issue, said it would be a ''provocative act should North Korea decide to launch that missile.''
''We will obviously consult on next steps, but I can assure everyone that it would be taken with utmost seriousness,'' Ms. Rice said. ''It would once again show North Korea determined to deepen its isolation, determined not to take a path that is a path of compromise and a path of peace, but rather instead to once again saber rattle.''
 Her comments came after Japan warned earlier in the day that it would take ''stern actions'' against North Korea if it proceeded with what would be its first important test launching since 1998, when North Korea fired a missile over northern Japan.
 ''I'm still hoping that North Korea won't do it,'' said Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi at a news conference. ''But if they launch a missile, Japan will consult with the United States and others and will have to take stern actions in response.''
 Mr. Koizumi did not specify what the actions would be, but other Japanese and American officials mentioned the possibility of economic sanctions.
 Australia, which has diplomatic relations with North Korea, called on the North Korean ambassador to cancel any test and to return immediately to the six-nation talks over the North's nuclear program.
 ''North Korea would be gravely mistaken if it thinks that a missile test would improve its bargaining position in the six-party talks,'' the Australian foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said in a statement.
 He said, ''Such action would be highly provocative,'' adding that it would further isolate North Korea.
 Agence France-Presse reported Monday that France, too, spoke out against North Korea's planned test.
 ''France expresses its deep worry at the preparations for a possible ballistic missile test by North Korea,'' a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Jean-Baptiste Mattei, told journalists.
 North Korea has refused to return to the six-party talks unless the United States lifts a crackdown on North Korean businesses, and on financial institutions that do business with them.
 The Korean Central News Agency, operated by the North Korean government, said the North's military had vowed to bolster the country's ''military deterrent'' against the United States. The agency accused the United States of being ''hellbent on provocations for war of aggression'' against North Korea.
 North Korea is believed to be preparing the launching of the Taepodong 2, which, American intelligence officials have said, could reach all of the United States in a three-stage version. The missile at the launching pad was reported to be a two-stage version. 
 In the 1998 test, it fired a Taepodong 1, which flew over Japan before landing in the Pacific. North Korea agreed to a moratorium on long-range missile testing in 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



427 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: CONGRESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats Urge Beginning of an Iraq Pullout This Year, but Avoid a Firm Schedule 

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
Trying to bridge party divisions on the eve of a Senate debate, leading Democrats called Monday for American troops to begin pulling out of Iraq this year. They avoided setting a firm timetable for withdrawal but argued that the Bush administration's open-ended commitment to the war would only prevent Iraqis from moving forward on their own.
 Coming the week after partisan and often angry House debate over the war, the Senate proposal, a nonbinding resolution, was carefully worded to deflect any accusations that the Democrats were ''cutting and running,'' as their position has been depicted by Republicans. The Democrats behind the measure did not even use the word ''withdrawal,'' and talked about how to guarantee ''success'' for Iraq, not about any failures of the war. 
''The administration's policy to date -- that we'll be there for as long as Iraq needs us -- will result in Iraq's depending upon us longer,'' said Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, who has been designated by the Democratic leadership to present the party's strategy on Iraq. ''Three and a half years into the conflict, we should tell the Iraqis that the American security blanket is not permanent.''
 The resolution was cobbled together by moderate Democrats trying to smooth over differences within the party. The minority leadership has tried to distance itself from a proposal by Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts setting a mandatory deadline for American combat troops to be out of Iraq by the end of this year, a limit that Mr. Kerry modified only marginally on Monday. Some Republican lawmakers and the White House pointed to that proposal last week in attacking Democrats as inconsistent and weak on national security.
 Mr. Levin's resolution did nothing to stop the Republicans' ridicule, with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky dismissing it in a Fox News interview as ''cut and jog.''
 ''The last thing you want to do when you have the terrorists on the run is give them notice that you're going to leave,'' said Mr. McConnell, the Senate's No. 2 Republican.
 President Bush spoke similarly at a Republican fund-raiser here Monday night, asserting: ''An early withdrawal would embolden the terrorists. An early withdrawal would embolden Al Qaeda and bin Laden. There will be no early withdrawal so long as we run the Congress and occupy the White House.''
 The Democrats said their measure, which will be debated this week as an amendment to a military policy bill, built on a resolution that passed the Senate last year with wide support from Republicans. Democrats said they hoped this earlier resolution, which pledged that 2006 would be a year of ''significant transition'' toward an independent Iraq, would be followed by some Republican backing for the latest one.
 But Senator John W. Warner, who as chairman of the Armed Services Committee was crucial to the adoption of last year's resolution, did not stand with the new proposal Monday. 
 ''In this form, I could not support it,'' said Mr. Warner, Republican of Virginia.
 Republicans said they were still exploring how to respond to the Democrats' latest approach. They are sensitive to the needs of senators in tough races, and therefore may bring an amendment of their own to express support for the troops in Iraq, giving those senators a chance to cast a vote backing a resolution instead of simply fighting one. 
 Such an amendment was the essence of the measure that House Republicans proposed last week, on which they prevailed.
 But the Republicans also said they were inclined to debate the Democratic resolution head on. So, in contrast to the more predictable House debate, the Senate showdown could bring a more serious exchange of views on how best to deal with the war.
 In any event, the resolution failed to satisfy Mr. Kerry. Late last week he said he was withholding his amendment in hopes that Democrats could find a ''broad consensus.'' But on Monday he altered his proposal just slightly, to set the pullout for July 2007 instead of Dec. 31, 2006. 
 The Levin amendment would leave some American troops, focused on counterterrorism and training Iraqi security forces, in place. But it calls for troops to begin moving out of Iraq by the end of this year, and for the president to submit a plan to Congress by then outlining preparations for further redeployment. Mindful of accusations that they are trying to micromanage a war from half a world away, the Democrats said they wanted to leave the ''speed and pace'' of the withdrawal to military commanders. 
 ''This amendment is not cut and run,'' said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who joined Mr. Levin in proposing it. ''This is not about a date certain. This is about getting the president to do the job correctly, something he has failed to do for the last three years and three months.''
 The resolution calls for an international conference to determine ways to secure Iraq and the region, and offers steps the Democrats said the Iraqis needed to make to take charge of their own country: sharing political power and economic resources among different groups, disarming the militias and rooting out disloyal members of security forces.
 ''As long as we're there to do this heavy lifting,'' Mr. Reed said, ''even though they want to do it themselves, they won't do it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); AL-QAEDA (65%); FUNDRAISING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



428 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: A McDonald's Ally in Paris

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, June 19 

 BODY:
Never mind that Denis Hennequin was the top executive here when a half-built McDonald's restaurant was bulldozed seven years ago to protest the Americanization of France.
 ''We are an icon, a symbol, we don't claim to be otherwise,'' Mr. Hennequin said. ''Yes, we were shocked,'' he went on, recalling how his business meeting was interrupted by the news of the bulldozing.
But even as protesters sought to cast McDonald's as the embodiment of all that is wrong with fast food and American culture, the French never stopped eating its hamburgers. Indeed, for all the attacks on the company, McDonald's operating profit in France last year was second only to that of McDonald's in the United States. 
 Mr. Hennequin is very much the engineer of the restaurant chain's success here, and one of his most compelling lessons about doing business in France came from the bulldozer incident. After the demolition, he started ad campaigns telling customers more about McDonald's France, what ingredients it used and what kind of people it employed. 
 Part of his success lies in blurring the national lines about what kind of restaurant McDonald's is. For one thing, all the buns, meat and other ingredients are from France; virtually all the work force is French.
 In fact, the only ingredient that is not French, paradoxically, is the cheese on the cheeseburgers. That is because McDonald's relies on cheddar -- the one kind that the French do not make very well. So, when McDonald's France promotes a one-month special of large burgers with cheese each winter, the cheese comes from the Netherlands or Austria.
 And now, the French operation is a McDonald's cash cow. Mr. Hennequin's skill lies in his selling something quintessentially American to a people who purport to be against American culture. That has helped him climb to the highest rung for a non-American in this distinctly American company, one not noted for advancing foreigners.
 His secret is that he follows the McDonald's playbook: careful choice of locations and personnel, training of personnel and indoctrination of the McDonald's credo. And he says that, frankly, he has relied on the quirkiness of his own people, the French: an overt distaste for Americana in concept, mixed with a kind of admiration for American food, films, music and television programming.
 McDonald's success in Europe comes amid its resurgence in the United States. As in Europe, McDonald's in the United States attracted attention by introducing healthy food items, like salad and fruit. But unlike Europe, McDonald's revival in the United States came in recent months partly because of the enormous success of the Dollar Menu, where all items, like double cheeseburgers and fried chicken sandwiches, cost $1.
 France and the rest of Europe did not suffer as harsh a slump as did McDonald's in the United States. In fact, the strength of the French and other European restaurants helped the parent company get through the rough patch. In several quarters last year McDonald's noted that the company got a boost from its European restaurants, its second-biggest market. 
 As the president of McDonald's Europe, Mr. Hennequin, 47, is responsible for 41 countries and is the first European to hold the job at McDonald's. That put him in a tough spot last fall during student protests against changes in the youth labor law, for McDonald's has also become a symbol for precarious employment, as the French call it -- that is, jobs that are easy come and easy go. 
 So it is not surprising that even Mr. Hennequin's own family believed his career at McDonald's lacked an element of respectability, much less cachet. Haute cuisine, yes, but McDonald's? ''My grandmother thought I was selling French fries on the Boulevard Saint-Michel,'' he said. 
 Mr. Hennequin joined McDonald's after obtaining degrees in law and economics and then working for a short time for a consulting firm. After training at a McDonald's in Mulhouse, in the east of France, he quickly climbed the corporate ladder from restaurant manager to field consultant to president of McDonald's France, and then, last year, to president of McDonald's Europe, with its 6,276 restaurants. There are now 1,035 McDonald's restaurants in France, making it the third-largest European market after Britain and Germany. 
 In some ways, he admits, McDonald's reflects the contradictions of French society. France has opened to the world, and its companies have long adapted to global rules for selling their products. Yet for many French patrons, McDonald's remains that little piece of America. ''We are an icon of the United States, and also, when you enter a McDonald's restaurant, you enter America,'' he said.
 ''It's one of the French paradoxes,'' he went on. ''The French like to be a little disruptive, provocative. Yet at the same time they vote with their feet. We serve one million customers every year.''
 Mr. Hennequin was born into a French family in the heart of Paris. Both parents are lawyers, and the family's apartment overlooked the Sorbonne. He attended the tradition-laden Henri IV lycee before his university studies.
 Last year, in an event that echoed the bulldozing by Jose Bove, a farmer who campaigns against globalization, the police in northern Lille found a plastic figure of Ronald McDonald, which had been stolen from a McDonald's, dangling beneath a city bridge with a ball and chain attached to one foot.
 Mr. Hennequin played down the incident, noting that Ronald was ready prey for pranksters. ''He's an easy target,'' he said.
 But of the bulldozer incident, he said: ''Suddenly there was this wake-up call. What are we doing? We started explaining what's behind the arches, how we deal with ingredients, employees. Without any cynicism, I thank Mr. Bove for helping us grow into that role.'' He compared it to judo, in which an opponent's thrust is turned to an advantage.
 ''The French have a way of protesting by struggling,'' he said, picking out the lessons he learned. ''Don't forget, we killed our king; in Britain, they still have the queen.
 ''We have a culture of confrontation. You can say it's bad or good, but that's what it is.''
 As for the ticklish question of youth unemployment in France, it is a subject on which Mr. Hennequin has clear views. If France is not generating jobs for the young, it is not the fault of McDonald's France alone.
 When he joined McDonald's in 1984, the average employee age was 22 to 23; today it is 26 to 27. Every year, McDonald's fills 40,000 jobs in France, yielding an 80 percent turnover rate. ''It's an easy-access job,'' he said, ''but for those who want careers, there are real career opportunities.''
 He says the French took so quickly to McDonald's, despite their own sophisticated cuisine, because it was fast, convenient and affordable. And it was child-friendly, not a characteristic of the traditional French restaurant.
 ''If you had kids and tried to go to a traditional restaurant,'' he said, ''it was a nightmare, not a pleasant experience.''
 Also crucial, he says, was a French ''fascination with America.''
 ''It's love and hate,'' he said. ''And there are so many Americas. The America of George Bush and that of Bill Clinton. New York is not San Francisco.''
 The recent student protests, he says, made him recall the unrest that roiled France in May 1968, when he watched the demonstrations as a 10-year-old from the window of his parents' apartment. ''What bothers me is that what they are doing today, in a sense, is protesting in favor of the establishment; they are scared of the future,'' and hence against change. ''I understand where they're coming from,'' he said. ''At the same time, what a waste.''
 But as ever, Mr. Hennequin searches for the silver lining. ''At the end of the day, having said all this, sometimes a crisis is a good thing,'' he said. ''It has opened debate more than it would otherwise have been.''
 And the French social model? ''It's no longer a model,'' he said, ''if you have three million people unemployed.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Denis Hennequin, a Parisian, oversees 6,276 McDonald's restaurants across Europe. (Photo by Top, Lars Klove for The New York Times
left, Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 An anti-Iraq war protester in France, McDonald's most profitable market in Europe, with a poster saying ''Boycott American goods.'' (Photo by Claude Paris/Associated Press)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); CHEESE (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); LABOR FORCE (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); NUTRITION (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (94%); MCDONALD'S FRANCE SA (57%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (74%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



429 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: 'Geo-Green' In 2008?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Seeds for a Geo-Green Party'' (column, June 16):
 Thomas L. Friedman is right when he proposes a gasoline tax with a portion of the proceeds going to finance energy research. 
 Congress should create an Energy Manhattan Project to explore a variety of alternative-energy sources.
 A significant difference from the original project to develop a bomb using atomic fission would be that it would be completely transparent rather than secret; all countries would be invited to participate and to share in the discoveries. 
 The latter alone would brighten our tarnished image among friend and foe alike. 
 What's more, think of what a world with abundant, stable supplies of reasonably priced energy would mean: Our foreign policy would no longer be distorted by the need to tolerate and support repressive regimes in order to secure adequate energy supplies; the Arab world would no longer perceive our foreign policy as oil-driven and exploitive; and undeveloped nations (and the poor of all nations) would benefit immensely.
 Not a bad return on the investment, is it?

Sheldon Jones
Wolfeboro, N.H., June 17, 2006

To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman is on the wrong track in proposing that a new Geo-Green party would make possible the ''recouping a lot of America's lost prestige in the world.'' 
 We experienced the divisive effect of Ralph Nader's Green Party and the resulting loss of the 2000 election for the Democrats. A new third party would further fracture the vote for the Democratic candidate and would serve the G.O.P. purposes precisely.
 The need for ''shoring up America's energy security, environmental security, economic security and Social Security'' is indeed an urgent one, but Mr. Friedman's objectives would be better served if he focused his influence on the Democratic Party platform and helped it provide the leadership our country needs.
 This is not the time to equate Democratic potential with current Republican policies. There is too much at stake.

Daniel Perlmutter
Felice Perlmutter
Berkeley, Calif., June 16, 2006

To the Editor:
 As an independent registered voter who always votes for third parties (Democrats and Republicans are simply variations on the same theme), I am happy to see Thomas L. Friedman continue his passionate plea for a third, Geo-Green party.
 In trying to justify to my fellow American voters the merits of voting for a third party, I have come to a single realization: the typical American voter is so entrenched in our static two-party system that it is hard for an individual to vote for a third party, especially one with a name like Geo-Green.
 What's even more disturbing is that many believe they are casting their vote for the lesser of two evils.
 One possible way we can break the Democratic-Republican stranglehold on American politics and power is through a parliamentary-style democracy. Unfortunately, I do not see this happening any time soon.

Michael Hadjiargyrou
Stony Brook, N.Y., June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Taxation; Presidential Election of 2008; Third Party Moves (US); Election Issues ; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); RALPH NADER (79%) Thomas L Friedman; Sheldon Jones; Daniel Perlmutter; Felice Perlmutter; Michael Hadjiargyrou

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006



430 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Latin America's Choice

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru 

 BODY:
There are a lot of ways to describe Latin America's challenge today. Some will tell you it's the age-old question of overcoming the staggering gap here between rich and poor. Some will tell you it's rooting out corruption and misgovernance. But I come at this issue with my own perspective, and I would describe the big question facing Latin Americans this way: Are they going to emulate India or get addicted to China?
 This question was, at least implicitly, a subtext of the recent election here in Peru. But it's true throughout this continent, which has always been better at mining its resources than mining its people. 
Let me explain by introducing Gabriel Rozman -- a Jewish technologist of Hungarian roots who was raised in Uruguay, educated in America and now heads the Latin American operations of India's biggest software/outsourcing company, Tata Consultancy Services of Mumbai.
 Mr. Rozman runs Tata's Latin American business out of Montevideo, where 550 Uruguayan programmers, trained and directed by Indians, are writing code and running the computer systems for companies all across this continent. They are backed up by Tata engineers in India, Hungary, China, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Argentina. India now thinks Latin America is its backyard, too.
 And so does China. China, though, is almost exclusively focused here on extracting natural resources -- timber, iron, soybeans, minerals, gas, fish meal -- to feed its voracious appetite and keep jobs and factories humming in China. There is nothing wrong about that. America and Spain did the same for years -- and often rapaciously. Today, China's appetite is helping to fuel a worldwide boom in commodity prices that is enabling a poor, low-industrialized country like Peru to grow at 5 percent.
 But countries that get addicted to selling their natural resources rarely develop their human resources and the educational institutions and innovative companies that go with that. So after the ore has been mined, the trees cut and the oil pumped, their people are actually even more behind.
 ''Why can't Latin America do what India is doing?'' Mr. Rozman asked when I spoke with him in Washington last week. It can, he insists, but only if it changes -- fast. ''Right now I have 500 job openings I can't fill, and the problem is education. The prestige career to follow in India is engineering, and in Latin America it is [still] law or being a notary public.'' 
 ''We need more computer courses with real standards and starting at an early age,'' he said. A lot of higher education in Latin America is modeled on the French/European system, which is better at producing philosophers than programmers. Philosophers are important, but not in bulk.
 Latin America also has to do a better job of teaching English, he added, and eliminating the red tape that prevents economic integration in Latin America and makes it very cumbersome to start new businesses here. 
 ''To go from Argentina to Montevideo is only a 20-minute flight,'' Mr. Rozman explained, but in terms of the economic integration demanded today by global firms, they are 10,000 miles apart. In addition, most of the legal systems in Latin America are designed to promote agriculture and light industry, not intellectual property or innovation. ''All the laws were made for another type of society,'' he said. ''If we don't get caught up with the next wave, we're in trouble.''
 That next wave is called ''follow the sun,'' he said. ''We like to start a project in Bangalore or Mumbai, then, as the day moves on, move it to our offices in Eastern Europe and then to Latin American.'' Tata expects its engineers in each place to be equally trained, speak English and have the computing infrastructure to seamlessly receive and hand off projects. This is a global-scale business.
 ''We have 50,000 employees in India and are going to 100,000,'' explained Mr. Rozman. Eventually, Tata will grow to 100,000 in China. ''But I can't go to 100,000 in any one country in Latin America, so I have to be able to put [the whole continent] together.''
 Latin Americans may think that their big choice is between two models of Western capitalism -- a European welfare state model and a hyper-competitive U.S. model. But before they divide their pie, they need to expand it -- and here their most important choice is between an India example that focuses on developing human resources and a China syndrome that focuses on selling natural resources. Since countries tend to do either one or the other, here's hoping that Latin America discovers India before it gets hooked on China.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OUTSOURCING (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); TRENDS (66%); NOTARIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (64%); TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (56%)

TICKER: TCS (NSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (57%) INDIA (95%); CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (92%); URUGUAY (92%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%) Latin America; China; India; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



431 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Fukuyama, Hannah and Zegna

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As he launched a progressive journal to ponder big ideas that might help the wretched Democrats stop driving on Ambien and snatch back a little power, Andrei Cherny sought advice from a conservative pundit.
 ''Who's on your tie?'' the pundit asked, explaining that Reaganites had been able to sum up their philosophy in the 80's by wearing Adam Smith and Edmund Burke ties.
 Mr. Cherny did not say. (John Stuart Mill?) 
 So far, Democrats have been more famous for who gave the tie -- Monica draped Bill with a Zegna -- than who gazed from it.
 Besides, Republicans don't own all three branches of government because of little cameo pictures of Adam Smith and Edmund Burke hanging over their blue Oxford button-down shirts. Mr. Smith and Mr. Burke would blanch at the shape W. and Karl Rove have given conservatism -- the political muscle of the Christian right, the withering of the social contract, greedy capitalism, fiscal profligacy. 
 If the Democrats need anything, it's not a new tie. It may not even be big ideas. 
 The Republicans, after all, got a monopoly while headed by W., a guy who makes Reagan look like Hannah Arendt. ''Compassionate conservatism'' was an alluring alliteration, not a paradigmatic philosophy.
 In politics, big ideas are too often just big slogans and big marketing techniques and big slime campaigns. 
 Besides, big ideas can backfire. Yesterday, Mr. Cherny and his fellow editor, Kenneth Baer, former Gore speechwriters, introduced their journal, Democracy -- it's sort of like Foreign Affairs without the glitz -- at a panel at the National Press Club with Francis Fukuyama and Bill Kristol.
 Mr. Fukuyama's big idea was The End of History. But a couple of little things like religion and nationalist ideology, not to mention history, got in the way. 
 Mr. Kristol was a key backer of the neocon push to knock out Saddam and create a model democracy in the Middle East. As he pointed out ruefully yesterday, big ideas cannot survive ''contact with politicians, unbruised,'' and are sometimes ''applied inappropriately.'' That was no doubt a veiled shot at Donald Rumsfeld, whom Mr. Kristol faults for the slide in Iraq. 
 ''And since my relations with conservatives these days are so bad -- with Rumsfeld and immigration and other things -- I'd just as soon hang out with you guys,'' the Weekly Standard editor told the room of liberals, bloggers and journalists. ''You're less mean.''
 You'd think that incorrectly predicting history is over would get you banished from the intelligentsia forever, but Mr. Fukuyama proffered another big idea, warning that the pendulum was not making its customary swing left because ''values'' voters were clutching it.
 ''There's a guy I buy my barbecue from who says, 'I think we're in a class war and my class is losing,' '' he shared. (Is this The End of Barbecue?) In Europe, he said, such brisket purveyors would be voting for the left, but in America, ''the values issues have been much more prominent, and so people who for economic reasons ought to be voting on the left are held still in the Republican column precisely because they don't trust the left on all the issues having to deal with family, and identity, and this sort of thing.''
 Big ideas are not enough, because personalities and circumstances intervene. What matters is the bearer of an idea.
 Bill Clinton had big ideas but short-circuited his presidency when he elevated his chaotic, self-regarding and gluttonous personality to a management style. Al Gore had big ideas but was too neutered by political mercenaries and focus groups to make those ideas compelling. Maybe because she had one idea that was way too big, Hillary has been running away from big ideas as though they're poison.
 After 9/11, Dick Cheney transposed his desire to expand executive power and his personal paranoia into a national policy. Ron Suskind reports in his new book, ''The One Percent Doctrine,'' that Vice dictated that the war on terror allowed the administration to summarily reject the need for evidence and analysis before action.
 Mr. Suskind describes the Cheney doctrine: ''Even if there's just a 1 percent chance of the unimaginable coming due, act as if it is a certainty. It's not about 'our analysis,' as Cheney said. It's about 'our response.' Justified or not, fact-based or not, 'our response' is what matters. As to 'evidence,' the bar was set so low that the word itself almost didn't apply.''
 In the hands of the wrong person, big ideas can be terrifying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); WRITERS (69%); MEN'S CLOTHING (68%); RELIGION (67%); IMMIGRATION (64%) United States Politics and Government

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (88%); KARL ROVE (57%) Maureen Dowd

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



432 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: The Promise and Problems Of Those Dirty Black Rocks

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

Big Coal
The Dirty Secret Behind America's Energy Future
By Jeff Goodell
Illustrated. 324 pages. Houghton Mifflin. $25.95.
 With oil prices soaring and the Middle East in turmoil, it may be some comfort to know that the United States is sitting on gargantuan reserves of fossil fuel. That's the good news. The bad news is that it's coal.
Just how bad is laid out emphatically in ''Big Coal,'' Jeff Goodell's compelling indictment of one of the country's biggest, most powerful and most antiquated industries. Coal, he argues, is bad for the economy, bad for public health and especially bad for the environment, yet its future looks quite bright. It is relatively cheap. It is plentiful. And Americans, who get half their electric power from coal-burning generators, are addicted to it. As of 2005, more than 120 new coal-burning plants were either planned or under construction in the United States. 
 ''We may not like to admit it,'' Mr. Goodell writes, ''but our shiny white iPod economy is propped up by dirty black rocks.'' 
 Mr. Goodell, a contributing editor at Rolling Stone, considers coal at three points in its life cycle. He travels to West Virginia and Wyoming to see how it is mined and transported by rail to generating plants around the country. He watches it being burned and transformed into electricity. Finally, he weighs the environmental effects of releasing huge amounts of sulfur and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from the more than one billion tons of coal burned every year in the United States, and billions more around the world. Seen from any angle, coal looks ugly.
 There is a price to pay for cheap electricity. In places like New York, San Francisco and Boston, the hidden costs remain hidden. But Mr. Goodell heads out to towns like Madison, W. Va., where companies now go after coal by blasting the tops off mountains and dumping them into rivers and valleys. Deforestation has led to devastating freak floods. The mountaintop debris, which leaches acid and heavy metals into streams, was helpfully upgraded from ''waste'' to ''fill'' by the current Bush administration, removing a big legal obstacle to new mining operations. 
 Mr. Goodell retraces, vividly and concisely, the sorry history of West Virginia coal mining, now in its twilight era. The big mining companies, after squeezing the easy money out of the state, have moved to the Powder River Basin in Wyoming, where low-sulfur coal can be strip-mined, and the industry is booming. Meanwhile, back in old-coal country, nonunion subcontractors cut corners and push workers to the limit to scratch out a few more tons of fuel from nearly depleted mines.
 Coal mining in the United States, Mr. Goodell argues, is a greedy, dirty business with an appalling record on worker safety and environmental pollution. A 19th-century industry, it has faced the challenges of the 21st century largely by digging in its heels and looking resolutely backward. Its chief enablers have been pliant politicians, softened up with lots of money, and an often craven regulatory bureaucracy. This Bush administration in particular has gone out of its way to make life comfortable for big coal, and Mr. Goodell, citing chapter and verse, takes it to task effectively.
 Mr. Goodell waxes wroth on global warming. Big coal, faced with mounting evidence that carbon dioxide emissions have contributed hugely to increases in planetary temperatures, resolutely decided to shoot the messengers. Rather than looking at cleaner technology, companies have concentrated on discrediting the science behind global warming, forming the Information Council on the Environment to label global warming a theory rather than a fact. An industry-financed video, ''The Greening of Planet Earth,'' suggests that warmer temperatures will lead to unprecedented abundance, as deserts turn into lush farmland. Unbelievably, this campaign has proved to be highly effective. 
 Mr. Goodell hits hard but fights fair, for the most part. He concedes that big coal has made some progress over the years. He wants to see it make more, especially by embracing a new technology called integrated gasification combined cycle, which cooks off the impurities in coal before turning it into a synthetic gas that is then captured and burned in a turbine. Generators using this method can burn coal nearly as cleanly as natural gas, but the process is more expensive. And this is where the rubber meets the road. 
 Are Americans willing to pay 20 to 25 percent more to turn on a light or cool their homes? Here the hardheaded Mr. Goodell goes a little soft. Essentially, he is asking average consumers to dig deeper and pay more now for vaguely perceived future benefits. Present pain for future gain does not usually add up to a winning political selling point, so to get it across, Mr. Goodell makes wild promises. A total commitment to clean energy could, he argues, ''unleash a jobs bonanza that would make what happened in Silicon Valley in the 1990's look like a bake sale.'' How this will come about remains a little mysterious. It just will. 
 Mr. Goodell should simply admit that there's no free lunch. The United States has enjoyed a free energy ride for a century and more, and the coal companies have made out like bandits all along the way. Now the day of reckoning has come. We -- and, in a just world, they -- are going to pay a price, either today or tomorrow. Mr. Goodell, in this well-written, timely and powerful book, makes it crystal clear what the stakes are.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Goodell (Photo by Jonathan Barber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COAL MINING (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); RIVERS (85%); POWER PLANTS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); SURFACE MINING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (69%); DEFORESTATION (69%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) WYOMING, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



433 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Drug Prices Up Sharply This Year

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Prices of the most widely used prescription drugs rose sharply in this year's first quarter, just as the new Medicare drug coverage program was going into effect, according to separate studies issued yesterday by two large consumer advocacy groups.
 AARP, which represents older Americans, said prices charged by drug makers for brand-name pharmaceuticals jumped 3.9 percent, four times the general inflation rate during the first three months of this year and the largest quarterly price increase in six years. 
Price increases for some of the most popular brand-name drugs were much steeper; the sleeping pill Ambien was up 13.3 percent, and the best-selling cholesterol drug, Lipitor, was up 4.7 to 6.5 percent, depending on dosage. 
 Over all, AARP said, higher prices mean that the cost of providing brand-name drugs to the typical older American, who takes four prescription medicines daily, rose by nearly $240 on average over the 12-month period that ended on March 31.
 ''When the manufacturers' wholesale prices increase, it gets passed through the system, regardless of who the final purchaser is,'' said John Rother, the policy director of AARP. Although the drug industry's main trade association challenged the accuracy of the AARP survey, a separate study, by Families USA, a patient advocacy group, found similar inflation rates among brand-name drug prices. While the higher prices have a general impact on the drug-taking public, consumer advocates said the higher prices have special implications for Medicare, which Congress barred from negotiating prices with drug makers when lawmakers devised the new so-called Part D drug program. 
 Commercial insurers, which are offering the drug insurance plans under Medicare's auspices, do have negotiating power. And they say that by switching to generic drugs, consumers can avoid most of the price increases. 
 The surveys measured manufacturers' wholesale prices, which would not necessarily reflect any discounts insurers might be able to negotiate. 
 But even so, the price increases in the Medicare drug plans since they began were identical in many cases with the jump in wholesale prices, Families USA said. 
 Some health care economists said the price increases, if they continued, could have a devastating effect on the new Medicare drug program.
 ''Higher drug prices may lead to higher premiums next year, which may discourage enrollees from joining or staying in the program, and fewer enrollees could drive premiums even higher,'' said Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a University of Minnesota economist who specializes in drug industry issues. 
 Mr. Schondelmeyer said one clear indication of the inflation's impact could be seen among the six million low-income elderly and disabled people who previously received drug coverage through Medicaid but were automatically switched to the Part D program when it began in January. 
 That shift was a windfall for drug makers, he said. ''Medicaid would have paid 25 to 30 percent less under the old system, including rebates from the manufacturers, than the new Medicare Part D program is paying.'' 
 Ron Pollock, the executive director of Families USA, offered another way to gauge the federal impact. The federal Department of Veterans Affairs, which is able to negotiate prices with pharmaceutical makers, is paying 46 percent less for the most popular brand-name drugs than the average prices posted by the Medicare plans for the same drugs, Mr. Pollack said. 
 Peter Ashkenaz, a Medicare spokesman, said enrollees in the Part D program could obtain a broad range of drugs as well as ''personalized help in finding less costly drugs.'' He said many enrollees were in drug plans with ''flat co-pays, which protects them from changes in pricing.''
 The first quarter of the year is typically the time when drug makers make many of their annual price increases. The industry did not comment on this year's increases, other than to question the accuracy of the AARP survey.
 The drug industry's trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association, said in a statement that the AARP conclusions were ''erroneous,'' because consumer drug prices had increased less than 2 percent since Jan. 1. The group, though, was citing a federal Bureau of Labor Statistics report that combines prices for brand-name and lower-priced generic drugs, as well as various ''medical supplies.'' 
 Paul Fitzhenry, a spokesman for Pfizer, which makes Lipitor, pointed the finger at health insurers, which he said were increasing their drug payment charges to members faster than drug makers were raising their prices. 
 ''There has been a huge disconnect between changes to our prices and increases to consumers' out-of-pocket costs for medicines,'' he said. ''Between 2001 and 2005, our compound annual average net price increase was 3.3 percent per year. During that same time, the average co-payment charged by insurers for brand-name pharmaceuticals has increased at an annual rate of 11.1 to 15.5 percent,'' he said, citing a Kaiser Family Foundation 2005 survey.
 Mohit Ghose, a spokesman for the American Association of Health Plans, a insurance trade group, said the insurers were actually reducing drug spending increases by promoting lower-cost generics instead of brand-name drugs.
 Mark Green, a spokesman for Sanofi-Aventis, which makes Ambien, said the drug was ''priced more competitively than some other products in the sleep category.'' He added, ''We make every effort to price our prices competitively, relative to the value they provide to patients.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the increase in the prices of prescription drugs in the first quarter misspelled the name of a spokesman for Sanofi-Aventis, who discussed the pricing of the sleeping pill Ambien. It is Marc Greene, not Mark Green.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (94%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INSURANCE (86%); GENERIC DRUGS (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (65%); MEDICAID (58%); CHOLESTEROL (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



434 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain, Then End Mixed as Fears Outweigh Relief

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street pared an earlier advance to end mixed yesterday as investors' persistent concerns about interest rates and the economy countered relief over an upbeat homebuilding report.
 A jump in new home construction that was sharply stronger than expected fed optimism that the overall economy remained sturdy in the face of higher lending rates and gasoline prices. Upbeat sales from Caterpillar and steady oil prices also gave stocks support.
 But over all, trading was erratic as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's meeting next week and its latest statement on inflation and economic growth. Last week, rising certainty that the central bank will raise rates again helped the market steady itself from nearly six weeks of losses, but Wall Street has struggled to build momentum since then. 
 ''The market has pretty high expectations that two more hikes are coming and that there won't be any cuts,'' said Scott Merritt, United States equities strategist for J. P. Morgan Asset Management. ''I think the market has fully discounted that in their prices.''
 At the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 32.73 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,974.84, after rising almost 88 points earlier. Broader stock indicators finished little changed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.02 points, to 1,240.12, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 3.36 points, or 0.16 percent, to 2,107.06.
 ''I think today is more of a quiet rally or stabilizing in the marketplace,'' said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan, Beck & Company. ''Inflation, stagflation, interest rates -- there are all those words out there making this a very tough market.'' 
 Bonds slipped, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note falling 3/32 to 9926/32; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, edged up to 5.15 percent, from 5.13 percent late Monday. In economic news yesterday, the Commerce Department said that May housing starts grew 5 percent, to 1.96 million, beating estimates, while the number of permits issued slid 2 percent, to 1.93 million. The upswing in homebuilding activity was attributed to improved weather last month.
 But a weak June outlook dragged on shares of homebuilders. D. R. Horton shed 61 cents, to $23.40; Hovnanian Enterprises lost 34 cents, to $28.65; and Toll Brothers slid 49 cents, to $26.05.
 Shares of the supermarket chain Kroger jumped $1.01, to $20.47, after it said its first-quarter earnings rose 4 percent on improved sales. 
 Caterpillar advanced $1.04, to $70.99, after it reported an 8 percent jump in worldwide machinery sales for the March-May period, lifted by strength in the oil and gas and marine segments. McDonald's shares rose 11 cents, to $32.96, after the company announced that it had made an alliance with the Chinese oil company Sinopec to build drive-through restaurants at some of its 30,000 gas stations throughout China.
 Shares of Target fell 6 cents, to $49.04, even though it said its June sales at stores open at least a year were tracking toward the upper half of a projected 3 percent to 5 percent growth range. 
 Nine issues declined for every seven that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, where preliminary consolidated volume came to 2.37 billion shares, compared with 2.25 billion shares traded Monday.
 Crude oil futures leveled off despite continued tension over Iran's nuclear arms program, suggesting near-term stability for the energy market. A barrel of light crude dropped 4 cents to settle at $68.94 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average slid 1.43 percent in the wake of Wall Street's Monday decline. However, Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.57 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 1 percent and France's CAC-40 was higher by 0.88 percent.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week United States Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.642
High Rate: 4.600
Coupon Yield: 4.681
Low Rate: 4.560
Median Rate: 4.585
Total applied for: $31,214,905
Accepted: $15,070,193
Noncompetitive: $362,840

The four-week bills mature July 20, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: KROGER CO (61%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (58%); D R HORTON INC (58%); MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%)

TICKER: KR (NYSE) (61%); HOV (NYSE) (58%); DHI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (61%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (61%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



435 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hybrids Get More Miles Per Congress

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EVER since the first Prius rolled off the assembly line almost a decade ago at the Takaoka plant not far from Toyota City, hybrid cars have basically been a luxury item. If you owned one, you could feel good about using less gasoline and being a trendsetter, but you couldn't expect the fuel savings to make up for the thousands of extra dollars that the hybrid cost. There was no financial reward for environmental virtue.
 But in the last few months, something important has changed. Gas prices have settled in at close to $3 a gallon, which is enough to make a few hybrids almost worth it, if not quite. And since the start of the year, the federal government has been giving generous tax credits to hybrid buyers, pushing the Prius and a couple of other hybrids into bargain territory. 
 Between the money saved on gas and the tax credit, the Honda Civic Hybrid will cost slightly less over a five-year span than the regular Civic, according to Consumer Reports. The same is true of the sharp-looking new Toyota Camry Hybrid, relative to a regular Camry. If you're deciding between a Prius and a regular Camry, the Prius, which gets a $3,150 credit, will start saving you money in just a few years.
 The point of a tax policy like this -- the point of a lot of tax policy, in fact -- is to give people an incentive to change their behavior, and persuading Americans to use less oil certainly sounds like one of Washington's priorities these days. 
 Yet, astoundingly, many of the tax credits are about to be taken away. So if you are thinking of buying a Prius or Camry Hybrid, do it soon, as in this month or maybe next. And if you are wondering whether policy makers mean it when they say they're serious about changing our energy policy, join the crowd.
 THE first thing to understand about the hybrid tax credit is that it was never really intended to reduce oil imports from the Middle East or slow the effects of global warming. The credit was created to prop up Detroit while giving conservation a nod.
 Last summer, when Congress was completing an energy bill, Toyota's and Honda's hybrids were already winning people over in the marketplace, and it was clear that any tax credit would go overwhelmingly to buyers of Japanese cars. So members of Congress, with help from Detroit's lobbyists, came up with an ingenious solution. They created a cap, a maximum number of hybrids that any single manufacturer could sell -- 60,000 -- before a clock started ticking, causing the credits for that carmaker to begin disappearing two quarters later. 
 The idea, Mark Kemmer, a G.M. lobbyist, told Automotive News, was to keep any one company from getting ''a runaway benefit.''
 Toyota hit the 60,000 mark last month, less than five months after the Jan. 1 start of the program, and the credits for its hybrid buyers will be cut in half on Oct. 1. (Because there are waiting lists for the Prius and Camry Hybrid, people who buy one in August or September may get their car after Oct. 1.) On April 1, 2007, the credits will be cut in half again. On Oct. 1, 2007, they will vanish. Honda, for its part, will probably hit the cap next year.
 And the Big Three? Combined, they have sold fewer than 15,000 eligible vehicles so far, all by Ford, largely because their hybrids have not impressed buyers. Rather than building highly efficient hybrids like the Prius, Detroit has tinkered with gas guzzlers like the Chevrolet Silverado, adding hybrid technology to them so that they get slightly better mileage. 
 Come next year, then, the government will pay you to buy a Silverado hybrid (which gets about 16 miles per gallon) or a Ford Escape Hybrid (which gets about 26, according to Consumer Reports), but not a Prius (44) or a nonhybrid Corolla (29). 
 The obvious answer to this bizarre situation is to remove the caps. To their credit, Mr. Bush and a few members of Congress have called for precisely that, although it seems unlikely to happen anytime soon.
 But I think there is a larger lesson here. In recent months, there has been a lot of talk in Washington about alternative energy sources, not just hybrids, but ethanol, fuel cells and nuclear power as well. Mr. Bush, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and others are pitching tax credits and similar financing mechanisms to give these technologies a boost. 
 The reality, though, is that government isn't particularly good at predicting which alternative will pan out. No single person or group is. ''You can spend a lot of money on technologies that don't fit,'' says Susan M. Cischke, Ford's vice president for environmental and safety engineering. Remember the electric-car fad in California?
 What the government can do that nobody else can, however, is set up a simple system of rewards and penalties -- with the single goal of reducing oil use, regardless of the means -- and then let the marketplace work it out. Economists tend to prefer a gas tax, but it's not the only option. 
 There is already a gas-guzzler tax written into the law that raises the price of inefficient cars, but not of sport utility vehicles or light trucks, notes Therese Langer of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. Making the tax universal would have a far bigger effect than a narrow policy aimed at hybrids, and it could be balanced by tax credits for efficient vehicles of any kind. Google has a nice template: it gives $5,000 to employees who buy a car that gets at least 45 m.p.g. in the government's ratings, a threshold that only the Prius and two Honda hybrids now meet. 
 I know this might sound like one more nail in Detroit's coffin, but it doesn't have to be one. The Big Three have the engineering expertise to build vehicles that can go a long way on a gallon of gas. If Washington would only nudge people to buy cars like that, Detroit would start making them.


GRAPHIC: Photo: 2007 Toyota Camry Hybrid (pg. C1)Chart: ''Comparison Shopping''A federal tax credit for hybrids, combined with savings from better mileage, has turned a few hybrids into relative bargains. But the tax credit will soon begin vanishing for Toyota models.'06 TOYOTA CAMRYPurchase price*: $20,801Miscellaneous costs+: --Federal tax credit: 0Total up-front cost: 20,801Annual miles driven: 12,000Miles per gallon: 24Annual gas cost: $ 1,250Total cost after 1 year: $22,0512 years: 23,2653 years: 24,443'06 TOYOTA PRIUSPurchase price*: $24,030Miscellaneous costs+: + 500Federal tax credit: - 3,150Total up-front cost: 21,380Annual miles driven: 12,000Miles per gallon: 44Annual gas cost: $ 682Total cost after 1 year: $22,0622 years: 22,7243 years: 23,366DIFFERENCETotal cost after 1 year: +$ 112 years: - 5413 years: - 1,076*Estimates of prices actually paid, which for Prius is above the list price.+Estimate of additional cost of sales tax, maintenance, insurance and finance for the Prius relative to the Camry, minus the difference in trade-in value.Notes: Based on $2.50-per-gallon gas. All figures in 2006 dollars. Gas costs in future years are reduced to reflect the time value of money.(Sources by Edmunds.com [car prices]
 Consumer Reports [miles per gallon])(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LOBBYING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); IMPORT TRADE (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



436 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: A Third of Dropouts Never Get Beyond 9th Grade, Report Says 

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20 

 BODY:
More than a third of high school dropouts across the nation leave school without ever going beyond the ninth grade, according to a report released here on Tuesday.
 The report, ''Diplomas Count: An Essential Guide to Graduation Rates and Policies,'' by the Editorial Projects in Education Research Center of Education Week newspaper, also estimated a 39 percent graduation rate for students in New York City, 25 percent lower than the city has publicly reported. 
 The report found that nationwide, 69.6 percent of the students who enter ninth grade graduate in four years with a regular diploma. It found both the most and least successful states in the New York metropolitan region, with New Jersey, at 84.5 percent, having the highest graduation rate in the country, and Connecticut, with 79.3 percent, coming in fifth. New York State, which demands that students pass exams in five subject areas, had the ninth lowest graduation rate, at 62.5 percent.
 Education researchers as well as state and local officials vary widely in their assessments of graduation rates and even who counts as a graduate. For example, a report earlier this year from the Economic Policy Institute, estimated that 82 percent of all students nationwide graduated from high school. The Education Week study, with some of the lowest graduation rates ever reported, will likely fuel the debate. The Education Week study used data from the 2002-3 school year. Its figures for states were slightly lower than figures the federal Education Department also released here on Tuesday, which found that nationally, 73.9 percent of high school students made it to graduation that year. The following year, the federal report said, 75 percent of students graduated.
 Both reports relied on figures that the department collects from states, known as the Common Core of Data. The newspaper's report, however, tracked promotions by grade to also estimate the probability of graduation on time with a regular diploma.
 Lori Mei, the head of testing for New York City's schools, defended the city's figures, saying New York tracked individual students and so did not rely on estimates, but produced actual graduation figures. In 2003, the city reported a 54.3 percent graduation rate.
 But she also said that New York counted students who received high school equivalency diplomas as graduates. Excluding them would have produced a graduation rate of about 50 percent, she said. She said that in New York, virtually all the students who drop out never get past 9th or 10th grade, largely because of poor preparation in the lower grades. 
 In the coming days, the study, posted at edweek.org/dc06, will provide graduation rates for every school district in the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (93%); GRADUATION RATES (91%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Education and Schools; Dropouts; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: EDITORIAL PROJECTS IN EDUCATION (58%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (54%) Education Week (Newspaper)

PERSON: Diana Jean Schemo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



437 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Personal Data Released 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
The names, addresses and Social Security numbers of about 500 people were mistakenly distributed to unemployment recipients because of a mail-processing mistake, the State Labor Department said yesterday. The department said a mail-stuffing machine inserted more than one unemployment insurance form into envelopes. The machine processed about 9,500 forms from May 31 to June 7, and about 498 were mistakenly sent to the wrong people, the department said. Letters will be sent to all potentially affected individuals alerting them about the security breach, the department said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); IDENTITY THEFT (86%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Identity Fraud

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (89%) NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



438 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; SOCCER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: A Little Traveling Music: Some Coaches Get Around

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany, June 20 

 BODY:
The transient nature of coaching international soccer requires that three things be available at all times: a passport, a plane ticket and a good suitcase. 
 Of the 20 teams returning to the World Cup this month, only four -- Costa Rica, England, Sweden and the United States -- have the same coaches they did in 2002. Fifteen of the 32 participating nations have coaches from another country. Even England, which exported soccer to the world and is among the favorites here, is being coached by a Swede, Sven-Goran Eriksson.
Some coaches, like Guus Hiddink, a Dutchman who is managing Australia, essentially become mercenary mechanics. They develop reputations for overhauling broken teams and tuning them up for one World Cup. Eternally they remain for hire, moving from nation to nation, often with high salaries and low expectations for longevity. 
 ''The coach always has to have his luggage ready,'' said Ratomir Dujkovic, a Serb, who will manage Ghana against the United States on Thursday with advancement to the second round at stake. 
 For the moment, after a 2-0 victory over the Czech Republic last Saturday, Dujkovic is a national hero in Ghana. Perhaps a fleeting moment. After his team was dominated by Italy, 2-0, in its first match on June 12, there were demands for him to be fired immediately.
 ''That's part of the job,'' Dujkovic said. ''When we lost to Italy, it was logical for some Ghanaians to call for my head.''
 Soccer is a sport of extreme emotion, and the officials in charge often operate on a whim that would have made George Steinbrenner envious in his less-patient days. The prestige of the World Cup compounds that, and because each country's roster must be made up of citizens, the most visible and radical decision an unhappy soccer federation can make is to fire its coach. Saudi Arabia improbably reached the second round in 1994, and it has since hired 15 managers in a futile attempt to replicate that achievement.
 ''The pressure from the public in these big countries is huge,'' United States Manager Bruce Arena said. ''Some countries change coaches after one result and don't have the patience in the long term. I do think it's a bit crazy.''
 In his eighth year, Arena is the longest continuously serving coach at this World Cup. By contrast, Togo, in West Africa, has had four coaches since February -- including two at the World Cup. 
 Developing soccer nations often spend millions of dollars to hire coaches from countries that have had great success. Four World Cup teams are being coached by Brazilians and another four by men from the Netherlands.
 No foreign coach has brought ultimate victory to a country in the World Cup. Yet managers are rotated like tires in Africa, Asia and especially in Saudi Arabia, which may soon hire a 16th coach in the almost certain event that Marcos Paqueta, a Brazilian, does not advance the Saudis beyond group play in this World Cup.
 ''A problem, for me, is a challenge,'' Paqueta said Monday after Saudi Arabia was routed by Ukraine, 4-0, explaining why he took a job with such little security. ''I'm a fighter. A problem is for man. Challenges are for warriors.''
 Otto Pfister, a German who is coaching Togo, quit before the tournament in a player-bonus dispute. He was replaced by his assistant, then rehired for his team's opening match, which Togo lost to South Korea. Minutes after that match, Pfister was threatened with firing by a Togo soccer federation official who accused him of drinking too much. Pfister warned that he would sue, saying he was a teetotaler.
 ''Turbulent? Yes,'' Pfister said of his tenure on Monday after his team was eliminated from contention for the Round of 16 by a loss to Switzerland. ''Extremely difficult is what I would say.''
 Pfister has managed seven African nations, but he is not quite the Larry Brown of soccer. The person considered to be the ultimate coaching nomad is Rudi Gutendorf, a German who has coached the national teams of 17 countries: Chile, Bolivia, Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada, Antigua, Botswana, Australia, New Caledonia, Nepal (twice), Tonga, Tanzania, Ghana, Fiji, Zimbabwe, Mauritius and Rwanda.
 Once asked why his career was such a travelogue, Gutendorf replied, ''One cannot conserve excitement.''
 Bora Milutinovic, a Serb, is the only manager who has coached five different teams in the World Cup: Mexico in 1986, Costa Rica in 1990, the United States in 1994, Nigeria in 1998 and China in 2002. He failed to qualify Honduras for this World Cup, but Milutinovic remains the only coach to reach the second round with four nations.
 A key to his success, the charming Milutinovic has said, was understanding local philosophy and expectation. Knowing that Costa Rica was notorious for firing its coaches, Milutinovic scheduled all of his pre-World Cup exhibition matches outside the country in 1990, said Mike Woitalla, executive editor of Soccer America magazine.
 Milutinovic's success has given him a kind of lifetime pass to attend the World Cup. In 1998 in France, an American soccer official asked Milutinovic if he had a ticket to a particular match. ''My friend, I do not need a ticket,'' he replied. ''I am Bora. B-O-R-A.''
 ''Sure enough,'' said Sunil Gulati, who is now president of the United States Soccer Federation, ''he had a better seat than I had.''
 Hiddink, the Dutchman who is coaching Australia, is considered soccer's latest miracle worker. South Korea had never won a match in the World Cup until Hiddink coached the team to the semifinals at home in 2002. His reward, according to news accounts, was honorary citizenship, free flights for life on a Korean airline, a villa on a private island and a World Cup stadium renamed in his honor.
 Having instilled discipline and tactical sophistication, Hiddink, who also coached a club team, PSV Eindhoven in the Netherlands, has Australia pointed toward the second round of this World Cup. 
 But as soon as the Socceroos are gone, so is Hiddink. He has accepted a lucrative offer to coach the Russian national team.
 ''He is never going to be out of work as long as he wants to coach,'' said Bryan Chenault, a press officer for FIFA, soccer's world governing body.
 Even for the most itinerant coaches, though, some jobs simply are not worth it. Luiz Felipe Scolari guided Brazil to the 2002 World Cup title, then moved on to Portugal, before England came calling in April. 
 Scolari became the top candidate to replace Eriksson after the 2006 World Cup, but he quickly removed his name from consideration.
 Apparently even a coach from soccer-mad Brazil was uncomfortable about drawing the same news-media attention in England as the royal family. ''There are 20 reporters outside my house now,'' a harried Scolari said at the time.
 Scolari remains with Portugal at the World Cup. Meanwhile, Brazil is being coached again by Carlos Alberto Parreira, who won the World Cup in 1994 in an earlier stint as manager. Parreira has also coached Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia in previous tournaments. But even a manager of his stature was fired by the impatient Saudis.
 Four years after his Brazilian victory, Parreira managed Saudi Arabia in the 1998 World Cup, only to be fired after losing his first two matches, with a third left to play.
 The Saudis tried a homegrown coach in 2002, but they lost to Germany, 8-0, and exited after three games without scoring a goal. Now they have another Brazilian coach, Paqueta -- at least until the final match of group play against powerful Spain on Friday.
 The problem in Saudi Arabia is not the coaches but the players, who lack the seasoning in Europe's top leagues, said Khalaf Melfi al-Dekhnan, sports editor of the Arab newspaper Asharq Al-Awsat.
 Still, it is Paqueta, the coach, who is sure to pay the price. He remains philosophical, however near he is to the unemployment line. Surely, another job will come along. 
 ''In life we have hope for everything,'' Paqueta said. ''Only death we have no hope for.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Otto Pfister, Togo's coach, has managed seven African national teams. During a bonus dispute, he resigned, then was reinstated. (Photo by Michael Sohn/Associated Press)(pg. D1)
The Brazilian Marcos Paqueta, left, is soon to be Saudi Arabia's ex-coach. The Serb Ratomir Dujkovic, center, is preparing Ghana to play the United States. Guus Hiddink, Australia's Dutch coach, will coach Russia next. (Photos by left, Karim Jaafar/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images
center, Alexander Heimann/Bongarts, via Getty Images
 Ivan Sekretarev/Associated Press)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%) Soccer; World Cup; Coaches and Managers

PERSON: Jere Longman

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); AFRICA (92%); GHANA (91%); SWEDEN (88%); TOGO (86%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



439 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: A Legacy of the Storm: Depression and Suicide 

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 20 

 BODY:
Sgt. Ben Glaudi, the commander of the Police Department's Mobile Crisis Unit here, spends much of each workday on this city's flood-ravaged streets trying to persuade people not to kill themselves. 
 Last Tuesday in the French Quarter, Sergeant Glaudi's small staff was challenged by a man who strode straight into the roaring currents of the Mississippi River, hoping to drown. As the water threatened to suck him under, the man used the last of his strength to fight the rescuers, refusing to be saved.
''He said he'd lost everything and didn't want to live anymore,'' Sergeant Glaudi said.
 The man was counseled by the crisis unit after being pulled from the river against his will. Others have not been so lucky. 
 ''These things come at me fast and furious,'' Sergeant Glaudi said. ''People are just not able to handle the situation here.''
 New Orleans is experiencing what appears to be a near epidemic of depression and post-traumatic stress disorders, one that mental health experts say is of an intensity rarely seen in this country. It is contributing to a suicide rate that state and local officials describe as close to triple what it was before Hurricane Katrina struck and the levees broke 10 months ago.
 Compounding the challenge, the local mental health system has suffered a near total collapse, heaping a great deal of the work to be done with emotionally disturbed residents onto the Police Department and people like Sergeant Glaudi, who has sharp crisis management skills but no medical background. He says his unit handles 150 to 180 such distress calls a month.
 Dr. Jeffrey Rouse, the deputy New Orleans coroner dealing with psychiatric cases, said the suicide rate in the city was less than nine a year per 100,000 residents before the storm and increased to an annualized rate of more than 26 per 100,000 in the four months afterward, to the end of 2005.
 While there have been 12 deaths officially classified as suicides so far this year, Dr. Rouse and Dr. Kathleen Crapanzano, director of the Louisiana Office of Mental Health, said the real number was almost certainly far higher, with many self-inflicted deaths remaining officially unclassified or wrongly described as accidents.
 Charles G. Curie, the administrator of the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, said the scope of the disaster that the hurricane inflicted had been ''unprecedented,'' and added, ''We've had great concerns about the level of substance abuse and mental health needs being at levels we had not seen before.'' 
 This is a city where thousands of people are living amid ruins that stretch for miles on end, where the vibrancy of life can be found only along the slivers of land next to the Mississippi. Garbage is piled up, the crime rate has soared, and as of Tuesday the National Guard and the state police were back in the city, patrolling streets that the Police Department has admitted it cannot handle on its own. The reminders of death are everywhere, and the emotional toll is now becoming clear.
 Gina Barbe rode out the storm at her mother's house near Lake Pontchartrain, and says she has been crying almost every day since.
 ''I thought I could weather the storm, and I did -- it's the aftermath that's killing me,'' said Ms. Barbe, who worked in tourism sales before the disaster. ''When I'm driving through the city, I have to pull to the side of the street and sob. I can't drive around this city without crying.''
 Many people who are not at serious risk of suicide are nonetheless seeing their lives eroded by low-grade but persistent feelings of sadness, hopelessness and stress-related illnesses, doctors and researchers say. All this goes beyond the effects of 9/11 and the Oklahoma City bombing, Mr. Curie said. Beyond those of Hurricanes Andrew, Hugo and Ivan.
 ''We've been engaged much longer and with much more intensity in this disaster than in previous disasters,'' he said. 
 At the end of each day, Sergeant Glaudi returns to his own wrecked neighborhood and sleeps in a government-issued trailer outside what used to be home.
 ''You ride around and all you see is debris, debris, debris,'' he said.
 And that is a major part of the problem, experts agree: the people of New Orleans are traumatized again every time they look around. 
 ''This is a trauma that didn't last 24 hours, then go away,'' said Dr. Crapanzano, the Louisiana mental health official. ''It goes on and on.''
 ''If I could do anything,'' said Dr. Howard J. Osofsky, the chairman of the psychiatry department at Louisiana State University, ''it would be to have a quicker pace of recovery for the community at large. The mental health needs are related to this.''
 The state estimates that the city has lost more than half its psychiatrists, social workers, psychologists and other mental health workers, many of whom relocated after the storm. And according to the Louisiana Hospital Association, there are little more than 60 hospital beds for psychiatric patients in the seven hospitals that remain open here.
 Because of a lack of mental heath clinics and related services, severely disturbed patients end up in hospital emergency rooms, where they often languish. Many poorer patients were dependent on a large public institution, Charity Hospital, but it has been closed since the storm despite the protests of many medical professionals who say the building is in good condition. Big Charity, as the locals called it, had room for 100 psychiatric patients and could have used more capacity.
 ''When you don't have a place to send that wandering schizophrenic directing traffic, guess what? Law enforcement is going to wind up taking care of that,'' said Dr. Rouse, the deputy coroner. ''When the Police Department is forced to do the job of the mental health system, it's a lose-lose situation for everyone.''
 ''When the family comes to see me at the coroner's office,'' he added, ''it's a defeat. The state has a moral obligation to reinstitute this care.''
 Sergeant Glaudi and others said some people struggling with emotional issues had no prior history of mental illness or depression.
 The symptoms cut across economic and racial lines; life in New Orleans is difficult and inconvenient for everyone.
 Susan Howell, a political scientist at the University of New Orleans, conducted a recent study with researchers from Louisiana State to see how people were coping with everyday life in the city and neighboring Jefferson Parish. Ms. Howell managed a similar survey in 2003.
 ''The symptoms of depression have, at minimum, doubled since Katrina,'' she said. ''These are classic post-trauma symptoms. People can't sleep, they're irritable, feeling that everything's an effort and sad.''
 The new survey was conducted in March and April, and canvassed 470 respondents who were living in houses or apartments. Since they were not living in government-issued trailers, it is likely that they were among the more fortunate. 
 Jennifer Lindsley, a gallery owner, also feels the sting of missing her friends.
 ''When you can't get ahold of people you used to know, it leaves you feeling kind of empty,'' Ms. Lindsley said. ''When you try to explain it to people in other cities, they say: 'The whole world is over it, so you've got to get over it. Sorry that happened, but too bad. Move on.' '' 
 Some people have decided to leave solely because of the mood of the city.
 ''I'm really aware of the air of mild depression that pervades this entire area,'' said Gayle Falgoust, a retired teacher. ''I'm leaving after this month. I worry about living with this level of depression all the time. I worry that it might affect my health. I know the move will improve my mood.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gina Barbe of New Orleans says she has been crying almost every day. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Sgt. Ben Glaudi, commander of the overworked Mobile Crisis Unit for the New Orleans police. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)
 National Guard troops and officers of the Louisiana state police gathered at an orientation session yesterday before beginning a mission helping the New Orleans police patrol the city, where violence has spiked. (Photo by Alex Brandon/Associated Press)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); SUICIDE (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); RIVERS (78%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (72%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (66%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



440 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: An A-to-Z Book Of Conservatism Now Weighs In 

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20 

 BODY:
It has red states and blond pundits; home schoolers and The Human Life Review; originalists, monetarists, federalists and evangelists; and no shortage of people named Kristol. 
 Now American conservatism can claim another mark of distinction: an encyclopedia all its own.
It is a big deal, in terms literal -- 997 pages -- and metaphorical. Few insults have stung the movement's thinkers as much as the barb from Lionel Trilling, the literary critic, who said conservatives had no ideas, ''just irritable mental gestures.'' 
 A half-century later, 251 contributors have weighed in, not so irritably, with a four-pound response.
 ''Feel the heft of it,'' said Lee Edwards, a former aide to Senator Barry Goldwater, who appears in the volume with a byline and an entry. ''It's more than a book. It is, if you will, an estimate -- it shows the maturation of the conservative movement.'' 
 And a timely one, at that. Sixteen years in the making, American Conservatism: An Encyclopedia appears with American conservatism, the political movement, warring over its future direction.
 ''We've gone from history's adversary to destiny's child, but governing has brought a whole new level of challenge,'' said Jeffrey O. Nelson, publisher of ISI Books, the conservative press in Wilmington, Del., that produced the encyclopedia. Criticizing what he called the ''big education, big spending, big war, big government'' conservatism of Republican leaders, Mr. Nelson said he hoped that the book, whose list price is $35, would help the movement return to its small-government roots.
 ''If conservatism is going to succeed and thrive in the 21st century,'' he said, ''it's got to look more like the conservative tradition as expressed in this book than the conservatism currently practiced in Washington.''
 Those people toiling in the capital trenches may not recognize the conservatism represented here. The book omits familiar names like Ann Coulter, Tom DeLay, Grover Norquist, Bill O'Reilly and Karl Rove. 
 It includes the journals University Bookman, circulation 2,600, and First Things. It gives Willmoore Kendall, a political scientist who died in 1967, three times as much ink as former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Those proportions are appropriate, said a former student of Mr. Kendall, William F. Buckley Jr., the founder of National Review, who called the reference book ''terrific.'' 
 ''Newt came and went rather fast but didn't leave hard fingerprints,'' Mr. Buckley said. ''The quote, unquote conservative politicians have a pretty short lifetime in encyclopedia usage. 
 ''It seems to me that if one were looking for orientation in such a world that the encyclopedia tries to serve that you would be more interested in Burckhardt,'' he said, a reference to Jacob Burckhardt, a 19th-century Swiss historian of the Renaissance, ''than in any of more than 100 conservative senators in the past 50 years.''
 Garland Publishing started working on the encyclopedia in 1990. ISI Books took over the project 10 years later. ISI Books is part of the Intercollegiate Studies Institute, which, as Page 436 explains, is a nonprofit group founded in 1953 to promote conservative ideas in colleges. 
 The encyclopedia is being featured by two conservative book clubs, Mr. Nelson said, and has sold nearly 20,000 copies since its release about two months ago. Along with Mr. Nelson, its editors were Bruce P. Frohnen, who teaches at the Ave Maria School of Law in Ann Arbor, Mich., and Jeremy Beer of ISI Books. Given its gestation, the book includes contributions from scholars who are long dead, including Russell Kirk, who in 1953 published a seminal book, ''The Conservative Mind.'' Kirk, who died in 1994, wrote essays on John Adams and moral imagination. Mr. Nelson is his son-in-law.
 Some entries wear their conservatism on their sleeve. Goldwater's ''loyalties were to duty, honor and country.'' Ronald Reagan had a ''vigorous and principled agenda.'' Bill Clinton was ''corrupt.'' 
 Others plumb more obscure topics with no obvious tilt. ''Public choice economics'' describes a theory of how special interests wield power. Two of its proponents have won Nobel Prizes. 
 The discussion under ''Jewish conservatism'' acknowledges a history of anti-Semitism on the right. The entry on Abraham Lincoln explores a conservative split between admirers and those who think he laid the groundwork for ''contemporary statist liberalism.''
 The longest entry belongs to ''Straussianism,'' a school of political theory founded by a professor at the University of Chicago, Leo Strauss, that emphasizes classical texts. Embraced by some leading proponents of the Iraq war, Straussianism is often regarded by those beyond its fold as opaque mumbo jumbo, a reputation that five pages of explanation may not dispel.
 If there is a place where the rivers of the right converge, it appears to be the office of William Kristol, a Straussian editor and advocate, whose mother (Gertrude Himmelfarb), father (Irving Kristol), philosophy (neoconservatism) and magazine (The Weekly Standard) all earned separate entries.
 Though Mr. Kristol was puzzled to read that he valued ''the virtue of a citizenry'' more than its prosperity or freedom, he declined to dwell on quibbles, praising the volume for concluding each entry with a short bibliography.
 ''What I liked most was that it encouraged you to read additional works,'' Mr. Kristol said.
 Some quibbles are edifying. The entry about ''God and Man at Yale,'' Mr. Buckley's most famous book, says it portrayed a campus ''conspiracy'' against capitalism and Christianity. But Mr. Buckley said his book ''made a rather emphatic point to say there was no conspiracy, that people were acting out of their own impulses.'' 
 Another entry describes the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal as ''pro-business.'' The page's editor, Paul A. Gigot, said the paper often criticized businesses that sought government favors and won a Pulitzer Prize in 1980 partly for an editorial called ''Down With Big Business.''
 ''We believe in capitalism, free markets and free people, not business over labor,'' Mr. Gigot said.
 The volume treads lightly, when it treads at all, on matters of race. It describes the ''courtesy and dignity'' of Strom Thurmond, who as a South Carolina governor and senator led the South's effort to preserve segregation. It does not mention that Mr. Thurmond had a black daughter whose existence he kept secret. 
 George C. Wallace, who became governor of Alabama pledging ''segregation forever,'' was ''always more complicated than his critics allowed.'' The discussion of ''Southern conservatism'' pays tribute to the region's ''precious Anglo-American continuity'' and says nothing about Jim Crow.
 Dan T. Carter of the University of South of Carolina said such entries offered a ''pasteurized'' view of racial history. ''The rise of American conservatism owes, in some part, to racial animosity, and it's uncomfortable for many conservatives to deal with that,'' said Mr. Carter, a biographer of Wallace who describes his politics as liberal. ''You don't have to say that conservatism capitulated to it. But you have to acknowledge it was there.''
 Mr. Nelson agreed that the encyclopedia's discussion of race was incomplete and said the next edition would include an entry about conservatives' reaction to the civil rights movement.
 ''Our forebears made a mistake on the issue,'' he said. ''They were just wrong. I don't know how to say it more clearly than that.''
 The sheer mass of the volume left at least one subject with mixed feelings. Richard A. Viguerie, a founder of Moral Majority, was delighted to find himself portrayed as a ''liberal bogeyman.'' But given the army of thinkers and doers who inhabit the book, Mr. Viguerie said, ''we should have achieved more politically than we have.'' 
 That, Mr. Kristol said, was not a conservative view. ''Conservative thinking,'' he said, ''should teach you not to expect too much from politics, at least in the short run.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey O. Nelson, editor of the Encyclopedia of American Conservatism. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. A13)
 (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart: ''A Compendium of Conservatism''American Conservatism: An Encyclopedia contains 626 entries on the movement's history, leaders and ideas.Here are some that made the cut and some that did not.INCLUDEDGeorge W. Bush -- 43rd presidentagrarianism -- old traditionC. S. Lewis -- Best-selling novelist, wrote ''The Chronicles of Narnia''Pat Robertson -- religious broadcasterpaleoconservatism -- favored by the author Russell Kirkneoconservatism -- favored by the author Irving KristolDan Quayle -- vice presidentCharles W. Colson -- Watergate felonFrancis Fukuyama -- Neoconservative intellectual, turned against Iraq warNOT INCLUDEDGeorge Bush -- 41st presidentblogging -- new traditionJerry B. Jenkins, Tim LaHaye -- Best-selling novelists, wrote the ''Left Behind'' seriesCharlton Heston -- actor and gun-rights advocate, played Mosescompassionate conservatism -- favored by President George W. BushDick Cheney -- vice presidentH. R. Haldeman, John D. Ehrlichman -- Watergate felonsCharles Krauthammer -- Neoconservative intellectual, turned against Francis Fukuyama(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (95%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); HOME SCHOOLING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); POLITICS (72%); LITERARY CRITICISM (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (55%); KARL ROVE (55%); BILL O'REILLY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (54%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



441 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Reader Responses

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The following are excerpts of readers responses to David Leonhardts June 21 column on hybrid cars and energy policy:
 An important aspect of the hybrid tax credit that you do not mention is that anyone who is subject to the alternative minimum tax (A.M.T.) will lose the credit. The credit is available only to taxpayers who pay regular tax. This is particularly important for those people who live in high-tax states such as NY and CA.
Since only a limited number of people will be entitled to the credit (the 60,000 limit) those people will prevent others from getting the credit, since they must accept the credit as one of the first 60,000 purchasers even though they cannot use the credit. A real catch 22.
 If President Bush and the Congress are serious about the credit they must change the tax law to exempt the credit from the A.M.T. There was such a provision in the tax bill that retained the 15% rate for dividends and capital gains but the hybrid credit was eliminated from the bill before it passed. 
 Alan Gordon Lipson
 In your column today you say "you couldn't expect the fuel savings to make up for the thousands of extra dollars that the hybrid cost."
 Not necessarily true. Hybrid resale values are proportionately higher than their regular counterparts. The net difference may be only a few hundred dollars, or even a profit on the hybrid. As such, the savings become real and significant quickly.
 If you drive the car into the grave, you make up the difference on longer term fuel savings... One way or another you save big with high mileage hybrids, and the savings are likely to grow as gas prices grow.
 Robert M. Perkowitz
 Why doesn't New York City require that their entire taxi fleet switch to hybrid vehicles and then back it up with tax incentives? N.Y.C. could be a trendsetter and Chicago and LA and Boston and many other cities probably would follow.
 Doug Savidge
 If the federal government was willing to waive the 54-cent-per-gallon tariff on imported ethanol, we could be using much more E85 than we are now. GM has almost 2 million vehicles on the road currently that are E85-ready. And when the fuel contains only 15% gasoline [as E85 does], these vehicles are probably as effective as the electric hybrids in cutting down the import of oil. Toyota recently announced that it will try to enter the E85 field by the end of the year. Late to the party, or is the domestic industry the only one to blame?
 David Hoffman
 I believe that you misunderstand the economics ofhybrids. In particular, it makes much more sense tohybridize trucks than to hybridize small vehicles likethe Civic or the Prius, contrary to your remarks. Here's why.
 Imagine that a conventional small car (say, a Civic orCorolla) gets 35 m.p.g., and a hybrid version of them(say, a Civic hybrid or a Prius) gets 30% better fueleconomy, about 46 m.p.g.. That sounds impressive-- an 11m.p.g. improvement. If you drive 15,000 miles per year,your fuel consumption will drop from 429 gallons to330 gallons, saving 99 gallons.
 Now imagine that a truck (say, an Escape) gets 18 m.p.g.,and a hybrid version gets 30% better fuel economy,about 23 m.p.g.. That doesn't sound so impressive--onlya 5 m.p.g. improvement. But: If you drive 15,000 milesper year, your fuel consumption will drop from 833gallons to 641 gallons, saving 192 gallons. You saveabout twice as much fuel with an Escape as you wouldwith a Prius.
 You state that "Detroit has tinkered with gas guzzlerslike the Chevrolet Silverado, adding hybrid technologyto them so that they get slightly better mileage." What you are missing is that is that m.p.g. is the wrongway to think about fuel consumption. As I've justshown, "slightly better mileage" for heavier vehiclesis much more valuable to the environment (and to one'spocketbook) than large improvements in m.p.g. of vehiclesthat hardly use any fuel in the first place.
 Contrary to your derisive comments, improving the fueleconomy of a Chevrolet Silverado by only 2 or 3 m.p.g.saves much more fuel than increasing the fuel economyof a Civic by tens of m.p.g..
 Stephen J. Harris
 Good point. Incentives to move people from, say, a 10 m.p.g. truck to a 12 m.p.g. truck certainly make sense. But I still dont think the government should pay people to buy a vehicle that gets 16 m.p.g. (a hybrid S.U.V.) and not one that gets 29 m.p.g. (a non-hybrid car). David Leonhardt
 After your terrific Feb. 8 column highlighting rampant "gaming" of fuel-economy regs and articulating the need for much higher gasoline taxes, I was a bit taken aback tosee you take a somewhat different tack in your column today (e.g., extending the gas-guzzler tax to SUV's and light trucks).
 Nothing wrong with that, but that's bound to be far less effective than a gas tax hike of similar revenue-magnitude.
 As well, Google's $5,000 gift for each 45 mpg car bought by employees sounds impressive, but it too is a relatively blunt instrument, and will be diluted by both the "free rider" problem and the lack of incentive for the recipients to drive less.
 Charles Komanoff
 I own a Toyota Highlander Hybrid- lovely, fast, comfortable car that gets at best 24 miles to the gallon. The estimated M.P.G. ratings are 27 highway and 31 city. My complaints to Toyota have fallen on deaf ears since they claim that the system is working fine. Their arbitration and testing process was worthless. I am not alone and I do not know of anyone with this hybrid system who actually gets the reported mileage- in fact since you brought up that venerable magazine Consumer Reports, this year's review of the Toyota Highlander Hybrid with their independent testing resulted in their obtaining only 22 M.P.G. with that model!
 Charles Argoff
 The calculations in the column were based on the Consumer Reports numbers, not the exaggerated ones used in the government ratings. David Leonhardt
 In an otherwise excellent article on hybrids you had the following paragraph: The reality, though, is that government isn't particularly good at predicting which alternative will pan out. No single person or group is. "You can spend a lot of money on technologies that don't fit," says Susan M. Cischke, Ford's vice president for environmental and safety engineering. Remember the electric-car fad in California?
 If you watch the film "Who Killed the Electric Car?" just out you will see that it wasn't a matter of a lot of money being spent on a technology that didn't fit but rather not enough commitment on the part of the automaker to continue a wildly popular car that had great commercial potential.
 Ethan Prochnik

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); ETHANOL (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); ALCOHOLS (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (65%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



442 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; Frugal Traveler; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Savings by the Sea (for Now) in Montenegro

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS

 BODY:
The World Cup match had hit a lull. Neither Argentina nor Serbia and Montenegro was able to penetrate the other's territory, and the crowd at Scorpio, an outdoor bar in the seaside Montenegrin town of Kotor, had started to discuss other subjects: real estate, girls, local hip-hop. I was beginning to understand why Americans are not big soccer fans. Then, out of nowhere, the ball skipped into the air and a player flew after it, one Adidas-clad foot extended. Goal!
 The applause echoed off the white stone walls of this medieval town, wedged between a fortress-crowned mountain and a pristine fjordlike bay. For a moment, I was shocked. The dozen Montenegrin guys drinking 1.50-euro Nik beers at Scorpio were cheering not for their home team but for their apparent opponents, Argentina.
 Actually, it wasn't their home team, they explained: Of the 11 players on the Serbia and Montenegro team, only two were from Montenegro and one was on the bench. To ever-louder hoots from the men of Kotor, Argentina ended up winning the game with a humiliating 6-0 lead. The losers that day weren't Montenegrins, but the Serbs. 
 So it goes in Montenegro, the latest stop on my high-style, low-budget trip around the globe. This country of 600,000 might have been a mere way station, a pause on my southward leg from Croatia to Albania. But on May 21, its citizens voted for independence from Serbia, thus dissolving the last remnants of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. How could I skip the world's newest nation, especially when because of decades of underdevelopment and wartime sanctions Montenegro was reputed to be significantly cheaper than its northern neighbor?
 From Dubrovnik, Croatia, where I spent two brief but happy days, I took a two-hour bus (99 Croatian kuna, or about $17) along the dramatic coastal highway to Perast, a tidy town on the Bay of Kotor, a Unesco-protected fjord. Why Perast? Because it's gorgeous the Newport, R.I., of Montenegro. The waterfront is lined with stately Venetian-style palaces and old merchant homes built by wealthy sea captains. The scene is intimate and proud, with a whiff of nostalgia for a once-glorious era when Peter the Great would send his officers to the maritime academy here.
 But most important, Perast had Vladimir Bulatovic. 
 Vladimir or Vlatko, as everyone calls him is one of only about eight Montenegrins on Couchsurfing.com, a Web site that allows members to offer their sofas, floors and spare bedrooms to like-minded travelers. A restaurateur in his late 30's, Vlatko has the slightly crazed look of a man besieged by errands and chores, but utterly delighted to be juggling them. (And like many younger Montenegrins, he speaks English fluently, or at least enthusiastically.)
 His four-year-old restaurant, Otok Bronza, on the only road in Perast (no phone), serves seafood from the cool and cozy ground floor of a 15th-century house. I dined there on my first night in Montenegro, savoring a hearty pork-and-bean soup known as pasulj, as Vlatko told me of abandoned villages high up in the nearby mountains, and his dream of touring Europe by motorcycle with his wife. Plus, when you make friends with a restaurant owner, dinner is always free. (And no, dear reader, he didn't know I was a writer.) 
 But his spare room, it turned out, was occupied by his mother, so Vlatko took me down the road to his friends George and Milinko, who were gracious enough to rent me a small, clean bedroom in their stone house for the astounding price of 8 euros a night, or about $10.
 The rate was no fluke. Everywhere I went in Montenegro, I found prices that were much lower than in Croatia. Rooms rarely topped 10 euros, cybercafes were a euro an hour and the Grilled Fish Index my preferred measure of a country's expense dropped to 30 euros a kilo, from 45 euros in Croatia.
 Affordable Montenegro will not, however, be around much longer. Unlike Croatia, this country is small, and the future of its beautiful beaches and wild hills seems to include only luxury travelers. Amanresorts has won the right to operate the entire island of Sveti Stefan as a hotel, and other five-star properties are going up along the coast.
 Independence is only accelerating a process that began in 2003, when Montenegro began formalizing its own economic and political goals separately from Serbia's. The country adopted the euro as its currency, even though it's not a part of the European Union. It defined itself in part as an "ecological" state, dedicated to preserving its natural environment the biggest draw for tourists. Even Serbs I spoke with agreed: Montenegro has been independent for quite some time.
 The crackle of change is in the air, from the laughter of two guys joking about the country's sunny outlook ("What's new?" "New country! Ha!"), to the whirr of buzz saws outside your window in the morning. The country's infrastructure is undergoing massive expansion and improvement: Roads are being widened, treacherous switchbacks are getting guardrails, and freshly dug tunnels are cutting travel times by an hour or more. (The police are also cracking down on drunk driving.) 
 All of which is a little strange in a country that prides itself on being lazy. "Man has trouble being born," according to one local saying, "and should spend the rest of his life relaxing." Yet everyone I met, from Vlatko to the guys talking real estate at the soccer bar, kept one eye on business and one ear on the cellphone.
 I did, however, manage to squeeze in a fair bit of Montenegrin-style lazing. Each morning in Perast, my hosts and I would sit on the sunny bench in front of their house, drinking Turkish coffee and glasses of brandy (which I could hardly decline without giving offense). Then I'd walk down past 17th-century palaces to the water's edge and contemplate swimming to Our Lady of the Rocks, a beautiful church on an artificial island built by the townspeople of Perast. (You can get there by boat, for 5 euros; entrance to the church and its museum is 1 euro.) 
 It was only after lunch that the day would really begin. Mostly, I went exploring with Dave Perrault, an American who'd given up day-trading to start a real estate operation here, and his partner Tomas Martinovic, a Montenegrin who was born and raised in Sweden. Friends of friends of friends, they offered to take me around the coast in their Volvo station wagon, showing me the sights as they scouted for properties themselves.
 One day we drove to the half-abandoned town of Babunci on the other side of the fjord, where we plucked a sweet fruit called murva from the trees and watched villagers harvest wheat along the road. Another day, we went to Rijeka Crnojevica, a town deep in the mountains where King Nikola, who ruled a century ago, had his hunting lodge. The lodge is now in ruin, but the still-new boardwalk is great for an evening stroll before dinner at the Poslednja Luka restaurant (381-86-239-527), which serves good grilled trout (6 euros) and even better homemade white wine (12 euros a liter).
 Finally, we drove down to Ulcinj, a beach town near the Albanian border, where I was supposed to meet Vlatko. Roaming the countryside with Dave and Tomas for several days left me both elated and ashamed. Vlatko was a great guy: he'd found me a place to stay, his wife had done my laundry and yet, since that first evening, we hadn't really been able to connect. Before I could repay his hospitality, Vlatko invited me to go camping at Velika Plaza, a sandy beach whose nine-mile length means you can always have a spot to yourself. 
 I was getting ready to say goodbye to Dave and Tomas when Vlatko called. He had to cancel because he was busy designing his wine menu on a friend's computer. But how about tomorrow morning instead? I sighed. My plan was to leave for Albania, but then again, one last lazy morning on the beach didn't sound so bad.
 At 10 a.m., after a long drive down a muddy, bumpy road, Vlatko and I reached the camp. There was a tent, a makeshift canopy, a table covered with wine bottles, a fresh pot of Turkish coffee, a pet dog and several friends: Joe, Maja, Pero and Srdja. And there was the warm, shallow Adriatic. 
 I jumped in the water and swam out as far as I dared to go. When I returned, a jam session was in progress: Joe on guitar, Pero on brass drum and Vlatko on of all things jew's-harp. As they twanged out Clapton tunes, I sipped my strong coffee and crossed my fingers that, when I return to Montenegro someday, moments like these will still be free. 
 Next stops: Albania and a Greek island someplace that's within a day and a half's reach of Albania and that's a true Frugal Traveler challenge. Any ideas?
 Read comments.


GRAPHIC: Photos: You don't have to travel far from the main road to find rural sights like this hay-loaded Zastava, near Babunci. (Photo by Matt Gross)
Views of Kotor from the mountaintop fortress above the old town. (Photo by Matt Gross)
 The Bay of Kotor, seen from the waterfront in Perast. (Photo by Matt Gross)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (52%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (90%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



443 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; FRUGAL TRAVELER; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Savings by the Sea (for Now) in Montenegro

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS

 BODY:
The World Cup match had hit a lull. Neither Argentina nor Serbia and Montenegro was able to penetrate the other's territory, and the crowd at Scorpio, an outdoor bar in the seaside Montenegrin town of Kotor, had started to discuss other subjects: real estate, girls, local hip-hop. I was beginning to understand why Americans are not big soccer fans. Then, out of nowhere, the ball skipped into the air and a player flew after it, one Adidas-clad foot extended. Goal!
 The applause echoed off the white stone walls of this medieval town, wedged between a fortress-crowned mountain and a pristine fjordlike bay. For a moment, I was shocked. The dozen Montenegrin guys drinking 1.50-euro Nik beers at Scorpio were cheering not for their home team but for their apparent opponents, Argentina.
 Actually, it wasn't their home team, they explained: Of the 11 players on the Serbia and Montenegro team, only two were from Montenegro -- and one was on the bench. To ever-louder hoots from the men of Kotor, Argentina ended up winning the game with a humiliating 6-0 lead. The losers that day weren't Montenegrins, but the Serbs. 
 So it goes in Montenegro, the latest stop on my high-style, low-budget trip around the globe. This country of 600,000 might have been a mere way station, a pause on my southward leg from Croatia to Albania. But on May 21, its citizens voted for independence from Serbia, thus dissolving the last remnants of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. How could I skip the world's newest nation, especially when -- because of decades of underdevelopment and wartime sanctions -- Montenegro was reputed to be significantly cheaper than its northern neighbor?
 From Dubrovnik, Croatia, where I spent two brief but happy days, I took a two-hour bus (99 Croatian kuna, or about $17) along the dramatic coastal highway to Perast, a tidy town on the Bay of Kotor, a Unesco-protected fjord. Why Perast? Because it's gorgeous -- the Newport, R.I., of Montenegro. The waterfront is lined with stately Venetian-style palaces and old merchant homes built by wealthy sea captains. The scene is intimate and proud, with a whiff of nostalgia for a once-glorious era when Peter the Great would send his officers to the maritime academy here.
 But most important, Perast had Vladimir Bulatovic. 
 Vladimir -- or Vlatko, as everyone calls him -- is one of only about eight Montenegrins on Couchsurfing.com, a Web site that allows members to offer their sofas, floors and spare bedrooms to like-minded travelers. A restaurateur in his late 30's, Vlatko has the slightly crazed look of a man besieged by errands and chores, but utterly delighted to be juggling them. (And like many younger Montenegrins, he speaks English fluently, or at least enthusiastically.)
 His four-year-old restaurant, Otok Bronza, on the only road in Perast (no phone), serves seafood from the cool and cozy ground floor of a 15th-century house. I dined there on my first night in Montenegro, savoring a hearty pork-and-bean soup known as pasulj, as Vlatko told me of abandoned villages high up in the nearby mountains, and his dream of touring Europe by motorcycle with his wife. Plus, when you make friends with a restaurant owner, dinner is always free. (And no, dear reader, he didn't know I was a writer.) 
 But his spare room, it turned out, was occupied by his mother, so Vlatko took me down the road to his friends George and Milinko, who were gracious enough to rent me a small, clean bedroom in their stone house for the astounding price of 8 euros a night, or about $10.
 The rate was no fluke. Everywhere I went in Montenegro, I found prices that were much lower than in Croatia. Rooms rarely topped 10 euros, cybercafes were a euro an hour and the Grilled Fish Index -- my preferred measure of a country's expense -- dropped to 30 euros a kilo, from 45 euros in Croatia.
 Affordable Montenegro will not, however, be around much longer. Unlike Croatia, this country is small, and the future of its beautiful beaches and wild hills seems to include only luxury travelers. Amanresorts has won the right to operate the entire island of Sveti Stefan as a hotel, and other five-star properties are going up along the coast.
 Independence is only accelerating a process that began in 2003, when Montenegro began formalizing its own economic and political goals separately from Serbia's. The country adopted the euro as its currency, even though it's not a part of the European Union. It defined itself in part as an "ecological" state, dedicated to preserving its natural environment -- the biggest draw for tourists. Even Serbs I spoke with agreed: Montenegro has been independent for quite some time.
 The crackle of change is in the air, from the laughter of two guys joking about the country's sunny outlook ("What's new?" "New country! Ha!"), to the whirr of buzz saws outside your window in the morning. The country's infrastructure is undergoing massive expansion and improvement: Roads are being widened, treacherous switchbacks are getting guardrails, and freshly dug tunnels are cutting travel times by an hour or more. (The police are also cracking down on drunk driving.) 
 All of which is a little strange in a country that prides itself on being lazy. "Man has trouble being born," according to one local saying, "and should spend the rest of his life relaxing." Yet everyone I met, from Vlatko to the guys talking real estate at the soccer bar, kept one eye on business and one ear on the cellphone.
 I did, however, manage to squeeze in a fair bit of Montenegrin-style lazing. Each morning in Perast, my hosts and I would sit on the sunny bench in front of their house, drinking Turkish coffee and glasses of brandy (which I could hardly decline without giving offense). Then I'd walk down past 17th-century palaces to the water's edge and contemplate swimming to Our Lady of the Rocks, a beautiful church on an artificial island built by the townspeople of Perast. (You can get there by boat, for 5 euros; entrance to the church and its museum is 1 euro.) 
 It was only after lunch that the day would really begin. Mostly, I went exploring with Dave Perrault, an American who'd given up day-trading to start a real estate operation here, and his partner Tomas Martinovic, a Montenegrin who was born and raised in Sweden. Friends of friends of friends, they offered to take me around the coast in their Volvo station wagon, showing me the sights as they scouted for properties themselves.
 One day we drove to the half-abandoned town of Babunci on the other side of the fjord, where we plucked a sweet fruit called murva from the trees and watched villagers harvest wheat along the road. Another day, we went to Rijeka Crnojevica, a town deep in the mountains where King Nikola, who ruled a century ago, had his hunting lodge. The lodge is now in ruin, but the still-new boardwalk is great for an evening stroll before dinner at the Poslednja Luka restaurant (381-86-239-527), which serves good grilled trout (6 euros) and even better homemade white wine (12 euros a liter).
 Finally, we drove down to Ulcinj, a beach town near the Albanian border, where I was supposed to meet Vlatko. Roaming the countryside with Dave and Tomas for several days left me both elated and ashamed. Vlatko was a great guy: he'd found me a place to stay, his wife had done my laundry and yet, since that first evening, we hadn't really been able to connect. Before I could repay his hospitality, Vlatko invited me to go camping at Velika Plaza, a sandy beach whose nine-mile length means you can always have a spot to yourself. 
 I was getting ready to say goodbye to Dave and Tomas when Vlatko called. He had to cancel because he was busy designing his wine menu on a friend's computer. But how about tomorrow morning instead? I sighed. My plan was to leave for Albania, but then again, one last lazy morning on the beach didn't sound so bad.
 At 10 a.m., after a long drive down a muddy, bumpy road, Vlatko and I reached the camp. There was a tent, a makeshift canopy, a table covered with wine bottles, a fresh pot of Turkish coffee, a pet dog and several friends: Joe, Maja, Pero and Srdja. And there was the warm, shallow Adriatic. 
 I jumped in the water and swam out as far as I dared to go. When I returned, a jam session was in progress: Joe on guitar, Pero on brass drum and Vlatko on -- of all things -- jew's-harp. As they twanged out Clapton tunes, I sipped my strong coffee and crossed my fingers that, when I return to Montenegro someday, moments like these will still be free. 
 Next stops: Albania and a Greek island -- someplace that's within a day and a half's reach of Albania and that's a true Frugal Traveler challenge. Any ideas?
 Read comments.


GRAPHIC: Photos: You don't have to travel far from the main road to find rural sights like this hay-loaded Zastava, near Babunci. (Photo by Matt Gross)
Views of Kotor from the mountaintop fortress above the old town. (Photo by Matt Gross)
 The Bay of Kotor, seen from the waterfront in Perast. (Photo by Matt Gross)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (52%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (90%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



444 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Rebounds After 3 Months of Decline 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Construction of new homes rose in May, bouncing back from a disappointing April, the federal government reported yesterday. But the improvement may prove to be a temporary blip, as other numbers in the report pointed to a slowdown in the coming months and a market that is less robust than a year ago. 
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development said new construction rose 5 percent in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1,957,000 homes. Still, that number was 3.8 percent less than in May 2005. 
The increase was not a sign of an upward trend, but more likely a rebound after three months of significant declines, economists said.
 Many economists had predicted less of a bounce.
 ''The one we got was larger than expected, but certainly not enough to overturn the idea that housing is in a contraction,'' a group of economists from Goldman Sachs wrote in a research note.
 Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist of PNC Financial, said the upturn in May probably ''marks one of the housing market's last hurrahs.''
 The stock market had little reaction to the report. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was virtually unchanged. The Nasdaq composite fell slightly, while the Dow Jones industrial average rose slightly. [Page C9.] 
 In a sign that construction is likely to taper off, the number of building permits declined considerably in May, to its lowest level since 2003. The rate was 2.1 percent lower than in April and down 8.5 percent from a year earlier. The decline in the number of permits usually shows up in the construction numbers within three months. 
 Taken with other signs of slower growth in housing -- like a record number of unsold new homes on the market and a darkening financial outlook among builders -- the new construction numbers point to an overall slowdown from the boom of the last few years, economists said.
 ''I don't think there's anything scary about what's happening in the housing market,'' Patrick Newport, an economist with Global Insight, said. ''It's just a slowdown from record-high numbers. It's just slowing down to a more stable pace.''
 The government report hurt the stock values of some of the largest home-construction companies. 
 Shares of Toll Brothers, the largest builder of luxury homes, and D. R. Horton, the largest home building company, both posted losses. Other large home builders -- the Centex Corporation, Pulte Homes and the Lennar Corporation -- were also down for the day.
 The stock values of most major home construction companies have been pummeled over the last year. Since the beginning of the year, the Bloomberg United States home builders index, which includes the largest construction companies, has fallen nearly 30 percent.
 The rise in new construction last month was helped by the continuing surge of building in the West, where new construction jumped 15.8 percent from April's levels. The building rate in the South also posted an 8.5 percent gain from April. Housing starts were up only marginally in the Northeast and fell 15.8 percent in the Midwest. 
 The report also showed strong growth in the construction of apartments, a sign that high interest rates are beginning to affect the housing market.
 ''As interest rates start to rise, particularly mortgage rates, it becomes more expensive to purchase a home,'' said Bernard Baumohl, executive director of the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J. 
 And as purchases of single-family homes slow, so does the economy, he said. ''Does the continued strength in apartment building bode well for real estate and the economy? Not quite.''
 The government report showed a 25.4 percent increase since April in the construction of structures with five units or more. 
 Yesterday's housing report was the latest to suggest a slowdown. On Monday, a survey of home builders found their collective view of the current business climate at the lowest level since 1995.
 Last week, the Federal Reserve also cautioned that the housing market appeared to be cooling. In its Beige Book report, the Fed said that building had slowed in most regions and that too many homes were being built in some regions.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Building a town house in North Hills, N. Y. Construction rose 5 percent in May, the Department of Housing and Urban Development said. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.MayStarts: 1.957Permits: 1.932Graph tracks new private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace, since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); TRENDS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); CITIES (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (60%) Housing; Housing Starts; Building (Construction)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (84%); PULTEGROUP INC (80%); CENTEX CORP (61%); D R HORTON INC (59%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Housing and Urban Development Department

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (84%); PHM (NYSE) (80%); DHI (NYSE) (59%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (84%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (84%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (80%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (80%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



445 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Disarray In Auction Of Univision

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
The auction of Univision, the nation's largest Spanish-language media company, was sent into disarray last night as a consortium of investors led by the Mexican television giant Grupo Televisa, the group tipped to win the contest, missed the deadline to submit an offer, executives involved in the process said. 
 Televisa let the deadline lapse, the executives said, in part because an investment partner, the Carlyle Group of Washington, dropped out of the consortium at the last minute after an internal dispute over the price that the group was prepared to bid. 
The Televisa-led investor group is still expected to submit an offer -- possibly as early as today, executives involved said, and Univision is likely to waive the deadline. But the auction may not end up being the fierce bidding battle that some investors expected when Univision put itself up for sale in February.
 While other media companies and investment groups have considered making offers, as the auction deadline neared only one other bidder emerged. 
 People close to the auction said a group that included the private equity firms Madison Dearborn Partners, Providence Equity Partners, the Texas Pacific Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners and the media investor Haim Saban was also preparing a bid. The group was working early this morning and planned to submit an offer, one executive said.
 As with the Televisa group, price seemed to be the crucial issue, people close to the equity firms said.
 The price the broadcaster may fetch is now expected to be significantly less than the $14 billion privately promoted by the company earlier this year. Bids are expected to be $11 billion to $13 billion, or in the range of $35 to $38 a share, people involved in the auction said. Univision shares closed yesterday at $35.40, down 30 cents.
 Market conditions have shifted sharply since Univision put itself up for sale. Interest rates on high-yield bonds, which would be used to finance the deal, have increased, making the acquisition more costly and leaving bidders to question how much debt they want to assume.
 Though executives involved in the process said changes in the market were a factor, some thought the missed deadline by Televisa was a negotiating tactic. 
 Executives within Univision and the rival group have begun to speculate that the deadline was missed not simply as a result of Carlyle's dropping out, but as part of a strategy to disrupt the auction process in an effort to drive down the price.
 The private equity consortium had been planning to bid less than Televisa, hoping to take advantage of the potential regulatory risks and the time that a deal with Televisa would require to win approval from the Federal Communications Commission, people involved in the process said.
 Several Hispanic groups and lobbyists for Telemundo, an NBC unit of the General Electric Company, have already privately begun gearing up to fight a Univision-Televisa combination. Federal regulations prevent foreign entities from owning more than 25 percent of an American broadcaster. 
 The offer from the rival consortium is being structured so that Televisa, which already controls slightly more than 10 percent of Univision, will own no more than 25 percent if it wins, but the group is expected to face arguments that Televisa is still acting as a controlling shareholder because of its influence over the bidding group. 
 The Televisa consortium is being backed by the Venezuelan media investor Gustavos Cisneros and investment firms, including Bain Capital, the Blackstone Group, Cascade Investment and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
 Univision, which is owned by A. Jerrold Perenchio and based in Los Angeles, is the leading media company in the United States aimed at the Hispanic market. 
 The buyer would immediately gain the biggest gateway into a rapidly growing Latino market with some $480 billion in annual buying power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); BONDS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); LOBBYING (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GRUPO TELEVISA SA (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (80%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); MADISON DEARBORN PARTNERS LLC (57%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (55%); TPG CAPITAL LP (55%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (55%)

TICKER: TV (NYSE) (91%); TLEVISA (BMV) (91%); GNE (PAR) (80%); GEC (LSE) (80%); GE (SWX) (80%); GE (NYSE) (80%); CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



446 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Ratings Cut On G.M. Debt In Response To Loan Plan 

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 20 

 BODY:
Two major rating agencies cut the debt rating of General Motors further into junk status on Tuesday after the company announced a plan to improve its liquidity by refinancing $5.6 billion in loans. 
 G.M., which plans to eliminate 30,000 jobs and close 12 factories as part of an extensive overhaul, said it would offer banks collateral and more favorable terms to extend its credit package through 2011. The company's existing loans are scheduled to mature in 2008.
Gina Proia, a General Motors spokeswoman in New York, said refinancing the loans was ''a positive action toward additional financial flexibility for G.M.'' 
 Although the proposal would remove uncertainty about G.M.'s ability to obtain capital during the overhaul, analysts said that unsecured bondholders would be less likely to recover their investments in the event of a bankruptcy.
 Standard & Poor's reduced its rating of G.M.'s senior unsecured debt to B- from B; and Moody's Investor service dropped its rating to Caa1 from B3. The ratings are six and seven notches below investment grade, respectively, and both agencies said they might lower their ratings again in coming months. 
 Fitch Ratings affirmed its B rating on G.M.'s unsecured debt but said it would keep the company under review for a possible downgrade until disagreements over wages and benefits at the Delphi Corporation were resolved. Union workers at Delphi have threatened to strike if a bankruptcy judge allows the company, G.M.'s largest parts supplier, to cut costs sharply by voiding its labor contracts.
 ''Clearly what we're looking for is no major supply disruptions that could end up shutting down production at G.M.,'' Mark Oline, a Fitch analyst, said.
 G.M.'s overall corporate credit ratings were unchanged on Tuesday. Ratings for G.M., which lost $10.6 billion in 2005, and the Ford Motor Company have been in junk territory since last year, and both are under review for possible downgrades.
 S.& P. said it would decide by the end of the month whether to lower Ford's rating because turnaround efforts did not appear to be progressing as quickly as expected.
 Tuesday's action by S.& P. and Moody's did not come as a surprise. After G.M. disclosed this year that it might have difficulty with access to its credit line, rating agencies had warned that they might issue downgrades if the automaker began issuing collateral to lenders. 
 Shares of G.M. fell 2.7 percent, or 70 cents, to close at $25.65.
 Analysts are awaiting the results of a buyout program offered to 135,000 union workers at G.M. and Delphi. Leaders of the United Automobile Workers union said at the group's annual convention last week that a combined 33,000 applications from the two companies had been submitted; the deadline is Friday.
 ''G.M. still has a long road ahead of it,'' J. Bruce Clark, a senior vice president at Moody's, said in a statement. ''And there isn't much likelihood of positive movement in the rating until the company can stem its loss in market share, show that it can preserve the profitability of its new line of large trucks and S.U.V.'s, achieve a viable U.A.W. contract in 2007 and get on track for generating positive free cash flow for 2007.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BONDS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%) Automobiles; Ratings and Rating Systems; Credit

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Standard & Poor's Corp; Moody's Investors Service Inc; General Motors Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



447 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Liberal-Style Budget 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your assertion (''Phony Deficit Hawks,'' editorial, June 18) that pay-go budget rules are the answer to federal deficits is a page from the liberal playbook -- a way to put forth a solution that also happens to be irrelevant to the issue at hand. 
 Pay-go does not reduce the deficit, nor does it have any effect on the national debt.
Liberals have fought spending controls every step of the way, so pay-go would essentially force tax increases. 
 With the retirement of the baby-boom generation and $65 trillion in unfunded obligations looming on the horizon, we cannot tax our way out of this problem. There is no way to raise taxes high enough to keep up with the costs of these entitlement programs and still have a viable economy.
 The real problem is that Congress is making promises that cost money we don't have. We need to stop that practice through disciplined spending restraint, not tax increases.
 My legislation offers ways to put the brakes on spending, so our children will inherit a much more effective and affordable government.

Judd Gregg
Chairman
Senate Budget Committee
Washington, June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BABY BOOMERS (70%) 

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (72%) Judd (Sen) Gregg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006



448 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2949 words

HEADLINE: Video of Ill-Fated Uzbek Rising Offers Haunting, Complex View

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS and ETHAN WILENSKY-LANFORD; C. J. Chivers reported from Moscow for this article, and Ethan Wilensky-Lanford from Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, and other locations in Central Asia.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 16 

 BODY:
The young man with an assault rifle, a convicted killer, stood beneath a statue in the central square of the Uzbek city of Andijon. He had been freed from prison in an armed raid the night before.
 It was May 13, 2005. The man, Daniyor Akbarov, addressed a growing crowd of unarmed civilians, telling them he was part of a group of 100 to 150 armed men that had already lost 20 or 30 members in a night of fighting. He said that they were trying to change Uzbekistan, one of the world's most repressive nations.
''For God!'' Mr. Akbarov said. ''For the future of your children! For your rights!''
 Later, an elderly, unarmed man stood in the same place, complaining that his son had been prosecuted unfairly and beaten by the authorities. He described his own humiliations at the hands of the Uzbek secret police. ''Give me justice!'' he said. 
 These contrasting images -- an armed man after a night of sacking government buildings, an unarmed man speaking passionately of repression -- appear in nearly 70 minutes of video recorded inside the ill-fated antigovernment uprising last spring in Andijon. The scenes were recorded hours before Uzbek troops sprayed the demonstrators with automatic gunfire and, according to survivors, killed hundreds of people who were trying to flee.
 The recently available video, fragmentary and at times choppy, provides the most extensive visual account to date of the controversial chain of events that brought Uzbekistan international censure and deeply strained its relations with the West, while driving it closer to Russia and China. The images have a haunting quality; many of the people shown were soon to die.
 Drawn from tapes made by at least two men in the crowd and later seized by the Uzbek authorities, who then edited and partly subtitled it in Uzbek, Russian and English, the video is far from impartial, having been used as evidence to prosecute men charged in the uprising. Excerpts have also been shown on Uzbek television, and used in a propaganda video circulated by Uzbekistan's embassies in foreign capitals.
 But the video is remarkable as a document that can be read different ways -- not just as propaganda but in places as a portrait of confusion and disorganization among the protesters and gunmen that undermines Uzbekistan's claim that it resorted to violence to put down an armed uprising by highly trained international terrorists. The gunmen often appear inexperienced, bungling and poorly equipped.
 Even allowing for the government's editing, other scenes contradict some survivors' contentions that they were simply hoping to set off a nonviolent, national uprising like those that had recently toppled other corrupt post-Soviet governments. Serious crimes committed by the gunmen and poor judgment by the demonstrators are evident, as are the tactical difficulties faced by Uzbek security forces.
 A copy of the videotape was provided to The New York Times by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a Washington-based research organization. A researcher for the group, Martha Brill Olcott, had obtained it from Bakhtiyar Babadjanov, a scholar of Islam at the Institute of Oriental Studies at the Uzbek Academy of Sciences. Dr. Babadjanov provided a deposition for prosecutors.
 The audio portion of the tape has since been more fully translated by The New York Times and shown to survivors, and translated separately by the endowment, which plans to post the video and its transcript on its Web site, www.carnegieendowment.org, on Thursday.
 Uzbekistan's Foreign Ministry and its embassy in Moscow declined several requests to review the video and comment on it.
 But three survivors of the crackdown, interviewed in hiding outside Uzbekistan, say that even the edited tapes confirm what they and other survivors have long told journalists, diplomats and aid organizations -- that a cadre of armed men staged an uprising and took hostages, and were then joined by unarmed people who saw a crack in Uzbekistan's oppressive security apparatus as a chance to demonstrate peacefully for freedom. 
 This larger outpouring of support, one survivor said, persuaded the demonstrators that if they could stand for a few days, more people might join them. Instead, he said, they were shot without warning.
 ''You need to find the original tapes,'' one survivor said. ''It would be simply horrendous.''
 Uzbekistan has been strongly criticized by the State Department and the United Nations for arbitrary detentions and the use of torture; the three survivors who viewed the video, each separately, requested anonymity because of fears for their safety and for that of their relatives who remain in Andijon.

An Uprising Foiled
 Other than a broad outline, much about the violence in Andijon, a city of 300,000 in the Fergana Valley, a swath of territory that extends from Uzbekistan into Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and has been a breeding ground of militant Islam, remains in dispute.
 What is generally agreed on is this: Last spring, many people in Andijon were outraged over the detentions and trials of 23 businessmen accused of religious extremism. Their supporters said the businessmen, who were owners of factories and shops, were singled out because they resisted official shakedowns.
 The businessmen were members of Akramiya, an Islamic organization based on the teachings of Akram Yuldashev, a jailed math and physics teacher whose writings and movement have been described by the group's adherents as a guide to spirituality and self-improvement.
 The accused men's families say the group is a charitable and religious organization, but Uzbekistan has labeled it criminal and extremist. Weeks of peaceful protests against the trials turned violent on the night of May 12, when a group of armed men attacked a police garrison.
 The gunmen's relationship to Akramiya, if any, is not clear; their number and allegiances are not known. Survivors of the uprising say they were simply angry local men, but the Uzbek government says they were terrorists trained abroad with money from the United States, an allegation the United States has dismissed as absurd.
 But the survivors and the government agree that the armed men killed police officers and seized weapons, then moved to a prison, where they killed guards and released the 23 businessmen and hundreds of other prisoners.
 Joined by some of the prisoners, the armed men attacked another security building but were repelled by Uzbek security officers. By sunrise they had overrun the regional administration headquarters on Babur Square.
 There, as two large theaters were set on fire (it is not clear by whom; each side blames the other), the standoff was joined by hundreds, then thousands, of unarmed demonstrators. From early in the morning, the demonstration included a dense crowd of women standing shoulder to shoulder, some with children; the survivors say these were families of the businessmen, who had been actively protesting for months.
 The origins of the crowd remain a source of argument. The Uzbek government insists people were rounded up by armed men and not allowed to leave. More than 30 participants interviewed by The New York Times in the days and weeks after the massacre, including many of the women, have uniformly said this characterization is a lie, and that they voluntarily supported the protest or, in a few cases, appeared out of curiosity.
 At this point the video becomes useful, if not conclusive, as it begins with the crowd assembling in the square. In the video, people in the crowd largely appear committed or quizzical, not coerced.
 Darker scenes soon appear, as government officials and employees, including firefighters, are taken hostage by the armed men. In at least two instances, an armed man addresses the crowd. Later, hostages are forced into the seized government building.
 These scenes -- a gunman giving a speech, firefighters being taken hostage as buildings burn -- undermine protesters' claims of nonviolent intent and make it difficult to imagine that they realistically expected a personal visit from a senior official, especially from the Uzbek president, Islam A. Karimov, as survivors said they had hoped.
 But then the nature of the demonstration shifts, the video shows, from an armed uprising to a largely civil protest by mostly unarmed people, with some gunmen still in the mix, creating complicated tactical problems for the Uzbek government. 
 The images remain open to a range of interpretations.
 Dr. Olcott of the Carnegie Endowment said that upon viewing the tape, she believed that many of the unarmed demonstrators were being used by the gunmen. Once it became clear that negotiations were failing, she said, they should have urged people, especially the women and children, to leave the square for their own safety.
 ''I looked at the tape and was horrified, and that is not a defense of what Uzbekistan did,'' she said. ''I thought neither side looked very attractive. When I watched these movies, I was sorry for everybody.''
 But the video also shows no sign that Uzbekistan tried nonlethal methods or a gradual escalation of force to break up the crowd, like giving clear warnings or signals to disperse, using water cannons or tear gas, or having snipers eliminate the gunmen. 
 By evening, after hours of failed negotiations and Uzbek troop buildups, the government dispersed the crowds with sustained automatic fire. Fleeing people, some leading hostages along as human shields, encountered troops massed away from the square who gunned down lines of protesters, the survivors said.
 Human rights organizations have labeled the ending a massacre, and said there was evidence of executions of the wounded with gunshots to their heads.
 ''The attackers who took over government buildings, took people hostage and used people as human shields, committed serious crimes, punishable under the Uzbek criminal code,'' Human Rights Watch wrote. ''But neither these crimes nor the peaceful protest that ensued can justify the government's response.''

The Demonstrators' Intentions
 For all its utility, the video has limits. It covers a fraction of the time that demonstrators held the square and shows nothing of the final, bloody hours. Survivors say some of the audio may have been altered by the Uzbek government to give the demonstration a more militant tone. For instance, the translations consistently emphasize calls of ''Allah-u akbar,'' or ''God is great'' in Arabic, but ignore audible shouts of ''ozodlik,'' the Uzbek word for freedom.
 And what is shown seems unlikely in itself to answer the many lingering questions about the moments before the final outburst of violence. 
 This limitation is partly a result of the fact that different sequences can be read either as signs of the armed men's organization and preparation, or as signs of their disorganization and lack of training.
 But some elements are beyond dispute. At least 40 armed men appear in the video, most with Kalashnikov assault rifles, one with a Dragunov sniper rifle and six with semiautomatic pistols. The remarks of Mr. Akbarov, the convicted killer, suggested that there were 30 to 90 more. 
 And yet even with the larger number, the gunmen would make up a small fraction of the crowd, as the survivors have long said.
 Other contradictory sights abound. One elderly man, seen early on, carries his assault rifle with wooden uncertainty, as if he has never before handled a gun. But later, as a group of men force a hostage into the administration building, a young man is seen confidently pressing a pistol into the base of the hostage's neck.
 Moreover, while there is disagreement over who set the theaters on fire, one of the demonstrators is seen carrying a fuel can and others are shown making Molotov cocktails.
 The speeches are also confusing, inconsistent and in some cases incoherent, making it unclear what exactly the demonstrators thought they might achieve.
 At one point, Mr. Akbarov says he is willing to die, and at times people in the crowd yell ''Allah-u akbar,'' which Uzbekistan maintains is evidence that the armed men were Islamic terrorists. The survivors say the phrase, commonly used by Muslims, implies no such thing.
 In some cases, the words and actions shown make it difficult to characterize the rally narrowly. For example, the owner of a furniture factory, Tavakkalbek Khojiyev, is seen at one point without a weapon, trying to calm the crowd and urging it to remain peaceful.
 Earlier in the morning, however, Mr. Khojiyev had appeared in the video with an assault rifle slung over his shoulder, raising questions about what type of revolutionary he was trying to be.
 For all of the insights the video provides, the survivors say it is also noteworthy for what it omits. For example, a radio report compiled by Galima Bukharbayeva, a journalist for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting who was in Andijon the afternoon of the protest and during the crackdown, includes audio of demonstrators complaining bitterly about the social and economic conditions in Uzbekistan. The official Uzbek video largely leaves out these speeches.
 Ms. Bukharbayeva later attended the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, which has posted her latest report on its Web site. The report includes audio made as Uzbek security forces fired on the crowd, including the sounds that surrounded Sharif Shakirov, a local man who was speaking on his cellphone while under fire.
 The shooting recorded is intensive and much of it is automatic, which undercuts the Uzbek government's contention that its troops used only precise fire. As people pray around him, their prayers growing fainter, Mr. Shakirov is struck and dies. The line remains open, capturing sounds of more shots.

The Aftermath
 The Uzbek government, in statements from President Karimov and prosecutors, has said the uprising was carried out by Islamic terrorists financed by the United States and trained by Chechens in neighboring Kyrgyzstan.
 These American-backed Islamic terrorists, in the official version, attacked after giving advance notice to Western foreign correspondents, who were to be in position ahead of time to provide biased accounts.
 The West has rejected much of Uzbekistan's portrayal, and the crackdown and Uzbekistan's refusal to allow a credible international investigation of the events have fundamentally changed its foreign relations, isolating it from the West.
 The European Union has imposed visa restrictions on Uzbek security officials and limited sales of arms and police equipment to the country. Uzbekistan, chafing under Western criticism, has evicted the United States from a former Soviet air base that the Pentagon had been using since 2001 to support operations in Afghanistan.
 Hundreds of Andijon residents became refugees, fleeing to Kyrgyzstan.
 Of these, 450 had been airlifted to Europe by last September, en route to resettlement in countries including Canada, Australia, Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Finland, the Netherlands, Germany and the United States, which has agreed to accept more than half of them, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 Five refugees remain in jail in Kyrgyzstan. Four others, including Mr. Khojiyev, the furniture factory owner, were forcibly removed by Kyrgyz security officers from a refugee camp within weeks of entering Kyrgyzstan and returned to the Uzbek security services. Mr. Khojiyev stood trial last September in a proceeding that, according to independent observers, had the feel of a Soviet show trial. 
 Viewed through the limited video now available, the armed uprising and the subsequent demonstration mixed scenes of hope and bravado, and what now seems foolishness and naivete.
 ''We have taken care of everything you are worrying about,'' Mr. Khojiyev, now convicted and in prison, tells the crowd. He adds, ''We should be faithful here, and the victory will be ours.''
 One survivor, watching the video, said that although he believed the demonstrators were on the right side, he was saddened by the confused spectacle in the square. The speakers, and their calls to the crowd, are a disjointed lot. He knows how this ends.
 ''There was not a leader for the crowd,'' he said. ''If there had been a leader, all Uzbekistan would have been behind him.''

A Protest Suppressed With a Massacre
 On May 13, 2005, the Uzbek government suppressed an uprising in the eastern city of Andijon with a bloody assault that left hundreds dead, shattered relations with the United States and sent tremors throughout Central Asia.
 After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the United States cultivated closer relations with Uzbekistan and its autocratic president, Islam A. Karimov, establishing an air base on Uzbek soil and projecting its influence deep inside former Soviet territory. The expanded relationship was both praised as realpolitik strategy and criticized as a shortsighted gesture of support for a dictator with a chilling human rights record.
 The partnership soured after the crackdown, during which Uzbek troops opened fire on a mixed crowd of gunmen, escaped prisoners and thousands of unarmed civilians. The United States openly criticized Mr. Karimov, who responded by evicting the Americans from the air base, establishing closer relations with Moscow and encouraging other countries in the region to do the same. 
 Newly available videotape of the uprising, the most extensive visual accounting of the events yet, provides fresh insight into the events of that day, casting new light on the activities of the authorities and the crowd, many of whose members were soon to die.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A funeral for one of the hundreds of people killed when Uzbek troops fired on protesters in Andijon on May 13, 2005. (Photo by Denis Sinyakov/Agence France-Presse)
The Uzbek government has used scenes like this one, in which some of the protesters take a hostage at gunpoint, to support its argument that the demonstrators were armed and dangerous. (Photo by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)(pg. A10)
 (Photo by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); RIOTS (68%); CORRUPTION (66%); TERRORISM (65%) Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations; Propaganda; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: C J Chivers; Ethan Wilensky-Lanford

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) UZBEKISTAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Uzbekistan; Russia; Andijon (Uzbekistan); Uzbekistan; Uzbekistan; Uzbekistan

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



449 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Mayors Protest Cuts in Antiterrorism Funds

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21 

 BODY:
Protecting major American cities against terrorism requires investing federal dollars not just in high-tech gadgets but also in police officers working in uniform and under cover, the mayors of New York and Washington told a House committee on Wednesday.
 The joint message, from Mayors Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and Anthony A. Williams of Washington, came as the two protested a plan by the Department of Homeland Security to cut grants to the cities by 40 percent in the coming year. 
New York and Washington still received some of the biggest grants announced on May 31, which totaled $711 million. New York got $124 million, 18 percent of the total, and the Washington area received $46.5 million, 7 percent. 
 But their allotments were cut, at least in part, because of plans to use the money to pay police officers instead of investing in antiterrorism tools or training, Mr. Bloomberg told the House Committee on Homeland Security, calling such a choice shortsighted.
 ''Time and again, human intelligence has disrupted terrorism planning,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''from a plot to bomb a major subway station in our city during the 2004 Republican National Convention, to the conspiracy revealed earlier this month to attack targets in Ontario, Canada.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said the Department of Homeland Security seemed almost too caught up in the fictional, high-tech world of antiterrorism and crime fighting as portrayed on television, forgetting that cities like New York and Washington would need financial help for years to pay for antiterrorism teams. 
 Mr. Williams agreed. ''There are just probably many more examples of where you've had great technology but you haven't invested on the ground in people, and it's been a tremendous flop,'' he said.
 George W. Foresman, the under secretary for preparedness at the department, told the committee that Congress had imposed restrictions on how much of the urban grants could be spent on personnel and overtime, and that Congress was also responsible for an overall reduction in grant dollars.
 But Mr. Foresman acknowledged that the department must do a better job explaining its decision-making process.
 The New York City police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, gave the committee details on what he said were 18 attempts or successful plots by terrorists to attack New York since 1990, which he said was why the city has about 1,000 officers assigned to a counterterrorism unit. Since the federal urban area grant program started in the 2003 fiscal year, Mr. Kelly said, the Police Department has been allocated $280 million, spending 40 percent on overtime, 35 percent on equipment and the rest on training.
 The cut this year will most likely mean delaying a plan to install a surveillance system in the financial district in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Kelly said, similar to the so-called Ring of Steel in central London.
 ''These programs cost money,'' he said. ''There's no question about it.''
 The pleas from the two mayors and their top police officials were endorsed by many members of the House committee, including its chairman, Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York.
 ''This was a stab in the back to the city of New York,'' Mr. King said of the 40 percent cut in the antiterrorism grant. ''It was indefensible. It was disgraceful.''
 But some members expressed sympathy for the hard choices that the Homeland Security Department must make.
 ''I hope the political forces will not undermine you,'' said Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, Democrat of Texas. ''Rather than administration funding and Congressional funding going upwards, it was going down. So you were operating with a much smaller pot.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayors Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, foreground, and Anthony A. Williams of Washington, far right. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); COUNTERTERRORISM (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (51%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (51%) Terrorism; Police; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Urban Areas ; Terrorism; Hijacking; Airlines and Airplanes; World Trade Center (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Eric Lipton; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Anthony A (Mayor) Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (69%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (69%) New York City; Washington (DC); United States

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



450 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Doctors' Average Pay Fell 7% in 8 Years, Report Says

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The Dr. Smiths are having trouble keeping up with the Mr. Joneses. 
 A report planned for release today indicates that the average physician's net income declined 7 percent from 1995 to 2003, after adjusting for inflation, while incomes of lawyers and other professionals rose by 7 percent during the period.
The researchers who prepared the report say the decline in doctors' inflation-adjusted incomes appears to be affecting the types of medicine they choose to practice and the way they practice it -- resulting in fewer primary care doctors and a tendency to order more revenue-generating diagnostic tests and procedures. 
 Primary care doctors, who are already among the lowest-paid physicians, had the steepest decline in their inflation-adjusted earnings -- a 10 percent drop -- according to the report by the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonprofit research group in Washington. 
 The average reported net income for a primary care physician in 2003 was $146,405, according to the study, after expenses like malpractice insurance but before taxes. The highest-paid doctors were surgeons who specialize in areas like orthopedics, who had an average net income of $271,652, nearly double what the primary care doctors said they earned. 
 The report was based on a national telephone survey of roughly 6,600 physicians in 2004 and 2005 and earlier surveys by the research center. ''These are large enough changes that physicians are responding,'' said Paul B. Ginsburg, the center's president and a health economist. 
 Doctors, he said, are reacting to the financial incentives under the current payment system by choosing to specialize and work in fields where they can increase their income by providing more services, like diagnostic tests or procedures, he said. 
 Dr. Cecil B. Wilson, the chairman of the board of the American Medical Association, said that for practicing physicians the survey ''confirms what they already know from their own practices: payments are not keeping up with inflation.'' 
 Mr. Ginsburg said that during the eight-year period in the study, payments from Medicare and commercial insurers had indeed lagged general inflation. 
 While the general inflation rate was 21 percent during the period, payments from Medicare rose only 13 percent, according to the study, and payments from private insurers rose even more slowly. Medicare sets physician payments under a formula that has been widely criticized, but so far Congress, which oversees the program, has not addressed some of the issues involved. 
 The current Medicare payment system, for example, rewards physicians for entering fields like cardiology or gastroenterology in which they can perform a procedure or do a test. Doctors like psychiatrists or primary care physicians, who spend their time evaluating or diagnosing patients, do not have as many of those options for generating additional revenue. 
 ''Physicians have responded to the stagnant fees by producing more visits as well as more procedures,'' said Mr. Ginsburg. Among Medicare beneficiaries, the number of minor procedures grew 6 percent a year on average during the eight years that physician income fell, the report said.
 The lower income of primary care physicians is also resulting in fewer medical students entering family medicine, said Dr. Rick Kellerman, the president-elect of the American Academy of Family Physicians. And most doctors going into internal medicine are choosing to specialize rather than become general internists, he said, adding that the financial disparities may result in an eventual shortage of primary care physicians. 
 ''What it is going to come down to is problems with access,'' in which patients wanting the services of a primary care physician will not be able to find a doctor able to see them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MEDICARE (85%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (67%) Medicine and Health; Wages and Salaries; Doctors; Tests and Testing

ORGANIZATION: Center for Studying Health System Change

PERSON: Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



451 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

DIABETES DRUGS Even as diabetes rates reach epidemic levels worldwide, four new drugs are generating optimism among doctors who specialize in treating the disease, as well as Wall Street analysts who view diabetes care as a huge and growing market. [Page A1.] 


THE PLAYER In the melee between the Chandler family and the Tribune Company, it has been hard to tell who drives the Chandler caravan. But one key player, Thomas Unterman, is not a family member, but is a lawyer turned media executive turned venture capitalist. [C1.]

EARNINGS LIFT STOCKS Strong earnings and an upbeat forecast from a corporate bellwether, FedEx, sent the stock market up broadly, helping it recover much of the ground lost in the last two weeks. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 104.62 points to 11,079.46. [C1.]

PREPARING FOR THE WORST After two years of horrendous hurricanes and with more catastrophic weather expected, some developers along the southern coasts have begun to build houses designed to withstand just about anything that nature can throw at them. [C1.]

PHONE FUND Federal regulators have adopted a rule that would require providers of Internet-based telephone service to help subsidize services in rural and low-income areas. The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Kevin Martin, above, said the rule was an interim measure to help maintain stability of the Universal Service Fund. [C6.]

MORGAN STANLEY BEATS FORECASTS Morgan Stanley reported strong second-quarter results, far surpassing analysts' forecasts and providing a welcome boost to John J. Mack as he approaches his first anniversary as chief executive. [C3.]

BIDDING FOR UNIVISION The auction for Univision took another unusual twist when two investors dropped out of a consortium led by the Mexican television giant Grupo Televisa, according to people involved in the process. The Televisa-led group missed a deadline to submit its offer because of a dispute over how much the group was preparing to bid. [C5.]

BEEF AGREEMENT Japan said it would resume imports of American beef, after an agreement was struck that would allow Japanese inspectors into packing plants in the United States. The agreement is expected to reopen the largest overseas market for American ranchers. [C14.]

REMODELING WAL-MART Wal-Mart is developing an extensive program to teach its 1.3 million employees in the United States how to take better care of themselves and the environment, people briefed on the plans said. The program is an effort to eventually turn Wal-Mart's work force into a model on issues like energy consumption and nutrition. [C2.]

NOT YOUR AVERAGE JOE Intelligentsia Coffee, a fast-growing privately owned retail and wholesale company in Chicago, does not ascribe to the ''buy low, sell high'' business model. It buys high and sells high to, as its buyer of green coffee puts it, ''create a culture of quality.'' [C1.]

PAULSON DIVESTITURE A White House aide said Henry M. Paulson Jr., chief executive of Goldman Sachs and Treasury secretary nominee, would sell his Goldman stake as part of an agreement with the Office of Government Ethics. [C3.]

VETERANS' INFORMATION The Department of Veterans Affairs said it would provide a year of free credit monitoring for people whose personal information might have been compromised in the recent theft of department computer data. [A22.]

DATA BROKERS Members of Congress promised to end practices by private data brokers who covertly gather Americans' telephone records without subpoenas or warrants. [A22.]

SCRAMBLE FOR JOB WEB SITE Portions of CareerBuilder.com, a job recruitment Web site, are up for grabs among newspaper companies trying to piggyback on its success. [C4.]

BIOTECH COMPANY DRAWS INTEREST A small biotechnology company, New River Pharmaceuticals, has been an investor favorite because of a proposed new treatment for millions of children and adults with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Market Place. [C3.]

ARCELOR TO WEIGH OFFERS The Luxembourg steel giant Arcelor said its board would meet Sunday to choose between competing bids from Severstal and Mittal Steel. [C14.]

HONG KONG COMPANY GETS BIDS A bidding war has broken out over some of the crucial assets of PCCW, the telecommunications and media company. [C15.]

ARTISTS' AGENCIES IN TALKS IMG Artists, a classical music management company, is in talks with the talent agency giant International Creative Management to acquire its classical music division, a person close to the negotiations said. [E3.]

ONLINE

THE CAR AS AN INVESTMENT The ''last convertible'' was called a can't-miss investment. But three decades later many of the people who bought the collectible have never recouped their investments. A report can be found at nytimes.com/automobiles.

ONLINE: DEALBOOK A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

THE PRACTICAL TRAVELER Delta is among several airlines that have lowered the weight limit for each checked bag to 50 pounds from 70 pounds on domestic and international flights. A report by Charles Passy can be found at nytimes.com/travel.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Wal-Mart shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); BEEF (77%); COFFEE (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WEATHER (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (72%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); WHOLESALERS (61%); LABOR FORCE (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GRUPO TELEVISA SA (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: TV (NYSE) (65%); TLEVISA (BMV) (65%); MS (NYSE) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (65%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (55%); JOHN J MACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



452 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A Behind-the-Scenes Adviser Aids Paper Heirs

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
In the melee that erupted last week between the Chandler family and the Tribune Company, it has been hard to tell who is driving the Chandler caravan. After all, the Chandlers, who owned The Los Angeles Times for more than a century, are a diffuse clan numbering some 170 members, many of whom have never met one another. 
 One of the major players behind the scenes is Thomas Unterman. He is neither a member of the family nor a trustee overseeing its billions, nor is he one of the trust's appointees on the Tribune board. Rather, Mr. Unterman is a lawyer turned media executive turned venture capitalist who has worked for the family for years. He has acquired a reputation as a financial and legal wizard for helping put together a series of complex and sometimes contentious deals the family and the former Times Mirror company did in the 1990's.
All of those transactions were intended to minimize the payment of taxes by the family and company. Indeed, in the specialized realm of tax-avoidance aficionados, ''he's a living legend -- he's a Mount Rushmore kind of guy,'' said Robert Willens, an accounting expert at Lehman Brothers. 
 Now, Mr. Unterman, who is 61 and lives in Los Angeles, is back in the picture, fighting for the family's interests. He is an adviser to two family trusts that are represented by seven trustees, three of whom sit on the Tribune board. The Chandler trusts, which own 12 percent of Tribune, are at loggerheads with the company over the value of two partnerships Mr. Unterman created with Times Mirror in the 1990's and over who gets stuck with a potential tax bill from unwinding those partnerships. 
 And in a stunning display of seller's remorse, the Chandlers last week branded the Times Mirror merger a failure and publicly demanded that Tribune spin off its TV business or put itself up for sale. 
 As Times Mirror's chief financial officer in 1999, it was Mr. Unterman who acted as the Chandlers' emissary to Tribune in secret talks that led to the company's acquisition by the Chicago company. Mr. Unterman, who was paid more than $8 million in bonuses for his work on the sale of Times Mirror and three other deals in the 1990's, resigned shortly after the sale to Tribune was announced, and began running the $500 million venture capital arm of the Tribune-Chandler partnerships, which are known as TMCT I and TMCT II. 
 He was also the architect of Times Mirror's sale of two publishing businesses in 1998, deals that last year resulted in Tribune being stung with a tax ruling for nearly $1 billion, now being appealed. While Tribune executives have said they knew they were taking on a potential liability when they acquired Times Mirror, they did not anticipate such a large hit. 
 Behind the scenes, Mr. Unterman has been an advocate of the Chandlers' hard line in talks with Tribune and has for months been personally handling the negotiations with the company over dissolving the TMCT partnerships, people involved said. 
 Mr. Unterman has been adamant, along with the Chandler trustees, that the dispute with Tribune is not about unwinding the partnerships in a way favorable to the Chandlers. Rather, they argue, the real issue is Tribune's lack of a growth strategy at a time of uncertainty in the media industry. 
 Among other things, Mr. Unterman has been critical of the company's efforts to develop Internet businesses around its powerful local news franchises in cities like Los Angeles, Chicago, Hartford and Baltimore. 
 The Tribune board and its chief executive, Dennis J. FitzSimons, have rejected the Chandlers' demands and have accused the Chandlers of putting their own interests ahead of those of the rest of Tribune's shareholders. Specifically, the Chandlers are opposed to the company's previously announced plan to buy back more than $2 billion worth of its stock next Monday, calling it ''hasty and ill-informed.'' 
 And a more drastic revamping of Tribune -- like spinning off its TV business, which the company said it has studied for months -- is not feasible for tax reasons until the TMCT partnerships are unwound.
 The Chandlers would lose their three seats on the board if they tendered more than 15 percent of their shares into the buyback. The Chandlers asked the board several weeks ago if it would change its bylaws to allow them to sell more than 15 percent into the sale without losing the seats, but the board said no. 
 A person close to the Chandlers, who asked not to be identified because the family considers the matter confidential, said Tribune's unwillingness to let the Chandlers keep their board seats was not a factor in the trusts' decision to oppose the buyback and not sell shares. 
 Mr. Unterman, who declined to be interviewed for this article, is well known in legal, venture capital, media and civic circles in Los Angeles. People who know him depicted Mr. Unterman as a good listener and negotiator, but aggressive and unflinching once his mind is made up. 
 ''He is Solomonesque,'' said Willem Mesdag, a former Goldman Sachs banker who worked as an adviser to Times Mirror and is president of the board of trustees of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, where Mr. Unterman is treasurer. 
 ''I see him as a seeker of the right solution, which could make some parties unhappy,'' Mr. Mesdag said. ''I don't see him as a compromiser -- I think he's quite comfortable with the right solution and a disgruntled party.'' 
 One Times Mirror director at the time of the company's sale who was not affiliated with the Chandlers described Mr. Unterman as calm, rational and personable. Another longtime Times Mirror director, Alfred E. Osborne, called him ''a very savvy and creative financial executive who could structure transactions superbly.'' 
 Mr. Unterman's close ties to the Chandlers gained attention when it emerged that he had approached the Tribune company about a deal without the knowledge of his ostensible boss at the time, Times Mirror's chief executive, Mark Willes. 
 ''I think there was a kind of evil genius issue raised by some commentators'' after the episode, said Henry M. Fields, a lawyer with Morrison & Foerster, the law firm where Mr. Unterman worked before joining Times Mirror as its general counsel in 1992. ''He's no Svengali. I see him as an absolutely classic corporate lawyer and advocate for his clients who tries to do his best.''
 Mr. Unterman is something of a Chicagoan himself. He was born in Rhode Island but raised in Chicago, and attended law school at the University of Chicago. The venture capital fund he runs, Rustic Canyon -- in which Tribune has a 20 percent economic interest -- has lost money since its inception in 1999, as have other funds founded during the dot.com bubble. 
 Personal animosity does not appear to be a factor in the rift between the Chandlers and Tribune. But the $1 billion tax ruling on the deal Mr. Unterman devised in 1998 has made Tribune executives wary of agreeing to any proposals he puts forward that do not include the Chandlers indemnifying Tribune from more unexpected tax rulings. 
 ''The company has no intention of assuming any additional tax liability,'' Mr. FitzSimons said -- echoing the very position Mr. Unterman has helped the Chandlers maintain for years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Unterman, a lawyer, has been an adviser to the Chandler family for many years. (Photo by Rob DeLorenzo/Sipa Press)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FAMILY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); MERGERS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (71%); PUBLISHING (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); TAX FRAUD (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); TIMES MIRROR CO (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



453 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Profit Helps Propel Stock Market

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Strong earnings and an upbeat forecast from a corporate bellwether sent the stock market up broadly yesterday, helping it recover much of the ground lost in the last two weeks.
 Investors turned their attention from fears of inflation, an economic slowdown and higher interest rates to numbers that remain far more positive: profits.
FedEx, whose breadth of operations has made its performance an indicator of the health of the overall economy, reported a 27 percent jump in fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and said strong global demand would propel profits 10 percent to 17 percent higher in its 2007 fiscal year. The company also said it would spend more to expand its reach globally. Shares of FedEx rose $5.54, or 5.1 percent, to $113.86. [Page C2.] 
 FedEx is ''almost a global economic indicator, and it was so robust that it leaves a good feeling,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management.
 Morgan Stanley, the other major company to report results yesterday, said second-quarter profit more than doubled, and raised its forecast for the rest of the year and 2007. The company's shares closed up $2.46, or 4.3 percent, at $59.48. [Page C3.]
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 12.08 points, or 0.97 percent, to 1,252.20, and the Nasdaq composite rose 34.14, or 1.62 percent, to 2,141.20. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 104.62 points, or 0.95 percent, to 11,079.46. 
 After appearing to top out in early May, stock indexes worldwide fell sharply in the last six weeks on a variety of concerns, including the possibility that the Federal Reserve might strain an already slowing American economy by raising short-term interest rates, now at 5 percent, more than needed to control inflation.
 In Brussels, Jean-Claude Trichet, the European Central Bank governor, told a committee of the European Parliament that policy makers might have to raise interest rates to rein in inflation. Most European stock markets closed little changed and the euro rose modestly against the dollar.
 But interest rate worries, which just a few days ago were rattling investors, seemed to be sidelined for the moment.
 The market's surge yesterday and late last week may also reflect ''the extent of the pessimism we had,'' said Bruce Bittles, a market strategist for Robert W. Baird & Company. ''The stock market had nowhere to go'' but up.
 Optimists note that in spite of higher interest rates, corporate profits continue to climb to record levels. Companies in the S.& P. are expected to increase profits by 11.7 percent in the second quarter, 15.6 percent in the third quarter and 14.7 percent for the fourth quarter, according to Thompson Financial, the research firm.
 Companies will start reporting earnings for the second quarter in mid-July. So far, 27 percent of the companies in the S.& P. issuing pre-announcements have increased their earnings projection, up from 23 percent from the same time last year; 59 percent lowered forecasts, down from 61 percent; and the rest said they were on target.
 John Butters, a research analyst for Thompson, said a majority of the preannouncements were typically negative. ''At least right now, things are in a fairly good position,'' he said.
 As far as stocks are concerned, though, the S.& P. index is up just 0.3 percent for the year, the Dow is up 3.4 percent and the Nasdaq is down 2.9 percent.
 Mr. Bittles said that in spite of the current rally, many on Wall Street were concerned that corporate profits would start to slow in 2007 as the economy slowed. ''I agree that earnings are supportive, but I am worried that we are looking at peak earnings,'' Mr. Butters said.
 Most economists expect some slowdown, especially as the housing market cools. The Commerce Department reported Tuesday that builders began construction on 5 percent more homes in May than they did in April, though starts fell almost 4 percent from May 2004.
 The 10-year Treasury note fell slightly, losing 1/32, to 99 25/32, and the yield was steady at 5.15 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INFLATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EURO (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CURRENCIES (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BRUCE BITTLES (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



454 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Legislate Learning English? If Only It Were So Easy

BYLINE: By Austan Goolsbee. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH'S plan to give longstanding illegal immigrants a path to citizenship would require them to learn English as a sign that they accept American culture. The conservative base of the Republican Party considers any policy that would open that path as little more than amnesty, and they consider the English requirement trivial. 
 In the midst of this dispute, evidence from economics suggests that for a large share of today's immigrants, this path would not be nearly as easy as either side might think. Immigrants already have a strong incentive to learn English: better English means a better job and a higher income. Not speaking English largely means being trapped in a low-paying job with no obvious means of advancement. Yet millions still do not know English. Why not? 
As Hoyt Bleakley, an economist at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, puts it: ''For someone not to speak English after being in the country for many years and in the face of the clear job market reward for learning English, is likely a sign that learning the language is very tough for them. I'm not so sure that having Congress tell them it's required will actually do anything.''
 The difficulties adults have with learning English are at the center of the research that Professor Bleakley has done with a fellow economist, Aimee Chin, of the University of Houston, in their forthcoming Review of Economics and Statistics study ''Language Skills and Earnings: Evidence from Childhood Immigrants'' http://www.uh.edu/achin/research/bleakley--chin--english.pdf 
 The study's approach begins with a linguistic theory known as the critical period of second language acquisition. The idea is that a child can learn a new language as fluently as a native speaker as long as the child starts before a critical age (usually thought to be around 11 or 12). Past the critical period, it is difficult to become fluent in a new language and virtually impossible to speak without an accent.
 It is a theory that can help explain why Henry A. Kissinger, who immigrated to the United States at about age 14, speaks English with a German accent while his younger brother, Walter, does not. (The alternative theory, supposedly given by Walter Kissinger, was that Henry does not listen.) And it is a theory probably quite familiar to millions of Americans with residual nightmares of high school French.
 Professor Bleakley and Professor Chin show rather stark evidence for this theory in the data on immigrants' job prospects. By comparing the outcomes of English-speaking and non-English-speaking immigrants who arrived in the United States around the critical period age, they document that poor English skills meant less schooling and substantially lower wages for immigrants and that these disadvantages often extended to their children, even if those children were born in the United States. 
 One of their simplest demonstrations of this fact compares immigrants from different islands of the Caribbean. They document that the wages and education levels of immigrants from non-English speaking islands like the Dominican Republic or Puerto Rico look similar to those of immigrants from English-speaking islands like Jamaica and Trinidad -- as long as the person originally came to the United States by age 11. For those who were older when they arrived, however, immigrants from non-English-speaking islands do significantly worse, on average, than those from English-speaking ones. Non-English speakers are much more likely to drop out of school and also have significantly lower-paying jobs when working. Their finding points strongly toward language as the deciding factor, since the differences exist only after age 11.
 Professor Bleakley and Professor Chin extend this initial study of immigrants by asking how immigrant parents' language skills affect their children in ''What Holds Back the Second Generation? The Intergenerational Transmission of Language Human Capital Among Immigrants'' (http://www.ccis-ucsd.org/PUBLICATIONS/wrkg104.pdf). 
 As a starting point, the study notes that half the students now classified as having low English proficiency were, in fact, born in the United States. They are overwhelmingly the children of non-English-speaking immigrants. So, it is natural to ask what impact parents have.
 In turns out that children whose immigrant parents came to the United States when young do just about the same in school regardless of whether the parents came from English-speaking or non-English-speaking countries. But the situation is different for children whose parents were older when they arrived. The children from non-English-speaking households do much worse than English-speaking ones. They are less likely to go to preschool and much more likely to drop out of high school. 
 When Professor Bleakley and Professor Chin compare the overall distribution of test scores of English- and non-English-speaking families, they find that the big differences appear mainly among children with the lowest performance. The top half of students from non-English-speaking households do just about as well as the top half from English-speaking households. It seems that a child with talent can succeed no matter what the parents' skills are, as has been true for centuries in this country. But parents whose English is poor have a big negative impact on the below-average children.
 Based on his research, Professor Bleakley sees some serious problems with the more extreme immigration proposals like the old Proposition 187 in California, which sought to deny a public education to the children of illegal immigrants. 
 ''For many children of immigrants,'' Professor Bleakley said, ''the school system is one of the only exposures to English they will get.'' Kicking them out of school when they are young means they will most likely never be fluent in English.
 The current dispute over immigration reform has been characterized as a battle between two messages: ''Welcome to America'' and ''Please Go Home.'' Whichever message prevails in the political battle this summer, unless directed mainly at 10-year-olds, had best come with a translation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); REFUGEES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LINGUISTICS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); APPLIED LINGUISTICS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%) Immigration and Refugees; English Language; Illegal Immigrants; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Citizenship ; Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; Austan (Prof) Goolsbee; Hoyt (Prof) Bleakley; Aimee (Prof) Chin

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



455 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Let a Hurricane Huff and Puff; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Coastal Builders Are Finding Eager Buyers for Their Fortified Houses

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
On the Gulf Coast of Texas, Jim Hayes is building houses on concrete stilts that he says will shrug off winds of more than 130 miles an hour and will easily survive the worst hurricane flooding. Near Orlando, Fla., modest but striking cottages are being built with safe rooms and ballistic nylon storm shutters. In the Florida Panhandle, Jason Comer is putting up a village of gleaming white mansions with eight-inch concrete walls and heavy, ridged concrete roofs. 
 After two years of horrendous hurricanes, with more catastrophic weather expected, a few dozen developers and contractors along the Southern coasts, from Texas to the Carolinas, have begun to produce a new generation of houses designed to withstand just about anything that nature can throw at them.
''We're building tanks,'' Mr. Comer said of his upscale development in the Florida Panhandle. 
 Until now, few buyers have been interested in superstrong houses. Those houses have usually cost far more and often looked more like ugly ducklings than cozy havens. Nor did officials along the Southern coasts generally require builders to fortify their construction. Florida began toughening building codes after the devastation of Hurricane Andrew in 1992, but it has been the exception. Until recently, building requirements were minimal in Mississippi and Louisiana. 
 But many of the new homes are proving more appealing. Demand has jumped sharply, and insurance companies are even offering policies at a discount in coastal areas where they are otherwise cutting back on coverage. 
 ''People have seen what has happened in Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi and they know that what has happened can happen again,'' said Gopal Ahluwalia, the vice president for research for the National Association of Home Builders. 
 The new homes are several notches stronger than even the toughest building codes require. And many are being offered at surprisingly low prices. While the villas going up in the Florida Panhandle are selling for up to $5 million, Kristin Beall is offering her three-bedroom, 1,300-square-foot homes near Orlando for as little as $200,000. In Texas, Mr. Hayes is selling some of his stilt houses for $199,000, but his tiny studio model goes for as little as $99,000. He plans to build 140 of those houses and is clearing ground for 300 more equally strong houses that will start at $300,000. 
 Sales have been brisk. Even without advertising, Ms. Beall is selling her houses faster than she can build them. Nearly 100 customers have signed up for her first 59 houses, she said. Mr. Hayes sold his first 14 houses in a month and has stopped taking orders while he gears up production. 
 Insurance companies love the new houses. They are offering discounts of as much as 25 percent on premiums at the same time that they are sharply increasing prices for other homes. 
 ''These homes are very attractive to insurers,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. Entire communities built to higher standards are even more appealing. ''One of the biggest causes of damage is flying debris,'' Mr. Hartwig said. ''When an entire community is built to much higher standards, there is far less debris.''
 Chuck Vance, a program manager at the Institute for Business and Home Safety in Tampa, said most of the reinforced houses were going up in Florida. They are also being built in Texas, the Carolinas and several other states.
 Mr. Vance's organization, financed by the insurance industry, advocates stronger building codes and certifies homes as fortified -- or built stronger than standard building codes. The institute would like to see stronger houses everywhere in the country. But so far, the greatest demand is in hurricane country. 
 In focus groups conducted in Florida this year by a company promoting the use of stronger construction materials, potential home buyers ranked safety and durability much higher on their wish list than traditional dream features like granite countertops and cherry wood cabinets.
 ''They want durable roofs, storm shutters that are easy to put up and screened pool enclosures that can withstand high winds,'' said Ralph V. Roberts, a senior vice president of Worthington Industries in Columbus, Ohio, which sells steel bars and frames that can replace wooden materials in houses. 
 Pictures of the wreckage in the town of Punta Gorda, on the gulf coast of Florida, came to symbolize the devastating consequences of Hurricane Charley in 2004. Since then, contractors for miles around say, home buyers have been clamoring for reinforcing features. 
 Russell Garrod, an independent home builder in Punta Gorda and a former president of the local two-county building association, said about half of the nine houses he was building this year would have fortifying upgrades. On one $700,000 home, he said, he is putting in laminated high-impact windows and a heavily anchored sheet metal roof rather than one with shingles. He is also installing a solid concrete storm room. 
 The extras, he said, will run about $35,000. Mr. Garrod said he also routinely advised putting in more concrete and steel reinforcing bars at a cost of about $300. These are inexpensive steps, he said, that can make a big difference in how well a home holds together in a storm.
 Mr. Garrod is building a solid concrete home for his family on elevated land at the water's edge in Punta Gorda. He expects it to be able to handle winds of 200 miles an hour. ''I always tell my customers, 'Here's what I would do for my personal house,' '' he said. ''You can spend a few bucks and I can upgrade, pour a little more concrete, add a little more steel, and you get a stronger house.''
 Stronger houses, he said, are going to have higher resale value. ''When people drive by after a storm and don't see anything wrong with it,'' he said, ''I think that's a selling point.''
 Ms. Beall, a third-generation home builder, worked with her mother to design her new line of houses. They adapted some of the gabled features of the Craftsman-style houses that were created in California in the early 1900's. The idea, she said, was to provide safe, attractive houses for working-class families.
 ''We wanted the design to be architecturally pleasing,'' she said. ''Not look like a fort, but be able to stand up to the weather.''
 In Ms. Beall's houses, the walk-in closet doubles as an interior storm shelter. Its walls and ceiling are solid concrete laced with steel rods. The shutters, made of ballistic nylon, offer the same protection as steel shutters or laminated high-impact windows, but cost much less. They are also lightweight and easy to take down and store. Outside, there is space for a power generator, for when the electricity is out. Built-in wiring connects the generator to two power outlets in the storm room and four in the adjacent master bedroom.
 Seventy miles southeast of Houston, Mr. Hayes starts building his houses by drilling 10-foot shafts and filling them with concrete and reinforcing rods. Then he extends the 14-by-14-inch concrete columns 20 feet in the air and stabilizes them with a steel-reinforced foundation. 
 The main living areas consist of rectangular boxes of superstrong laminated wood and interlocking plank floors. Mr. Hayes sets the boxes down about a foot on the concrete pilings and bolts them in place. In a practice that has become standard in South Florida, the roofs and walls are secured with metal straps. 
 ''We're using basic materials,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''But we're doing things in such a manner -- the thickness, the heaviness, the frequency ofthe nailing, the blocking of 2 by 4's -- that it adds an additional rigidity.'' 
 The ridged roofs of Mr. Comer's houses in the Florida Panhandle near Panama City tell the story of his building philosophy. They start with a base of three-quarter-inch plywood nailed to frames strapped to the walls. Then comes a thin sheet of rubberized, waterproof material. Next comes a coating of adhesive foam. Inch-thick concrete tiles are pressed into the adhesive, then screwed into the plywood. The tiles are then covered with a slurry of concrete that fills in all the joints and cracks. Finally, the roof, with foreshortened eaves, gets four coats of waterproof paint to further smooth and seal the surface. 
 ''There's no opportunity for wind to get under the tiles,'' Mr. Comer said.
 For many people, the new houses provide a sense of security that no longer feels like a luxury. Melody Dimick and her husband, Barry, bought a perfectly nice retirement home three years ago when they moved to central Florida from Plattsburgh, N.Y. But after taking cover in their closet during Hurricane Charley and being brushed by two more of the four hurricanes that hit the state in 2004, they decided they needed a sturdier house.
 ''I just felt nervous,'' Ms. Dimick said. ''I sat here watching these huge windows I have in my house thinking, 'Oh, my God, I want smaller windows and I want them covered. I want a house that's prepared for the next time.' ''
 The Dimicks have started talking to Ms. Beall about buying one of her houses. And, Ms. Dimick said, they are pretty close to making a decision.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kristin Beall, a third-generation home builder, is offering fortified three-bedroom, 1,300-square-foot homes near Orlando, Fla., for as little as $200,000. There is ample space and built-in wiring for a power generator. (Photo by Homes by Her)(pg. C4)Chart/Diagram: ''Building Homes to Withstand Storms''A few dozen developers along the southern coasts have begun to build houses intended to survive hurricanes. After two years of destructive storms, demand for the houses is strong. Here is how one developer on the Texas coast is building fortified houses for as little as $99,000.IN FLORIDA, ANOTHER TACKWalls made of concrete blocks, reinforced with extra concrete and steel bars.Concrete roofs. Heavier and more solid, they are much less prone to wind damage.Building a community of superstrong houses helps reduce flying debris and the damage the debris causes.HOUSE FRAMEEvery piece of the wood frame is secured using metal straps. The entire structure is bolted to the columns below.WINDOWS AND SHUTTERSWooden shutters provide a first line of defense. Impact resistant laminated windows, much stronger than regular windows, provide further protection against windblown debris.ABOVE GROUND COLUMNSReinforced concrete columns, each more than a foot square, lift the house 26 feet above sea level. The mezzanine will sit at 18 feet above sea level, high enough to escape storm flooding.GRADE BEAMReinforced concrete beams, 2 feet thick, and a 4-inch concrete slab link the underground support columns and distribute the weight of the house equally.ROOFSecured to the house frame with metal straps. For extra strength each shingle is attached using six long nails.UNDERGROUND SUPPORT COLUMNSSteel-reinforced concrete support columns,18 inches in diameter, are built 10 feet into the ground.(Graham Roberts/The New York Times
 photographs by Kurt Lischka/Moon Creek Studios)(Sources by Crown Team Texas, Alys Beach)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INSURANCE (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); WEATHER (78%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



456 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Comes to Harlem

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
TALKING up N, his new fashion emporium in Harlem, Larry Ortiz posed a question: ''If we had to put Harlem in a bottle, what would the scent be?'' He then answered with no prompting. ''It would obviously be a little retro, a little 1930's.'' An infusion, in short, evocative of Harlem's glory years, an era of artistic ferment that spawned Cab Calloway, Dorothy Dandridge and Nat King Cole, fused with a modern street-inflected sensibility. 
 For Mr. Ortiz, one of N's three partners, capturing the essence of the neighborhood is not just rhetoric. To succeed as a merchant, he maintained, he will need to distill Harlem, not just in a fragrance but in all of the upscale fashions, home accessories and cosmetic lines sold at his gracious two-level store in a town house on 116th Street between Seventh and Lenox Avenues.
His objective in showcasing brands like Nicole Miller, Hugo Boss, Marimekko and Jonathan Adler to the increasingly affluent enclave north of Central Park is partly to cater to a fashionably hip local population that has until now traveled downtown in search of popular fashion labels. He is also the latest in a growing number of retailers to invoke Harlem's multilayered heritage to put their wares on the fashion map. 
 ''One of the things that is compelling to us is the idea of branding Harlem,'' Mr. Ortiz said. It is an idea he hopes to render concrete by offering a mix of local labels and African-American designers like Byron Lars and Tracy Reese with more established, upscale brands. ''It's very important to push a lot of black designers who wouldn't get the same attention elsewhere,'' he said.
 ''This store is not about hip-hop,'' he added emphatically. 
 At 4,000 square feet, N, which opened in April in Mount Morris Park, is the largest upscale retailer to descend on the area. Like N, other newcomers are pointedly distancing themselves from the brash hip-hop aesthetic and offering fashion that deliberately summons Harlem's fabled past, along with current fashion trends being interpreted by downtown outposts like Scoop, Intermix and Big Drop and also by a clutch of stylish men's stores. 
 As well they might. They have arrived in a rapidly gentrifying neighborhood. Mount Morris Park, a 16-block area from 118th Street to 124th Street between Fifth and Seventh Avenues, has the highest concentration of Harlem households with incomes exceeding $100,000, said Nikoa Evans, a partner in the store and a former vice president for finance for the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, a federal economic development initiative. Affluent residents pay about $750,000 for a one-bedroom condominium and $2 million for the traditional brownstones that are in high demand.
 But Mount Morris Park, and much of Harlem, remains a relative bargain for boutique owners, who pay rents varying from $75 a square foot to as much as $150 on 125th Street, compared with $700 on prime blocks along Madison Avenue. 
 Flaunting an aura of exclusivity, the new shops offer a high-style -- and pricey -- alternative to the wares on 125th Street. That crowded, populist thoroughfare is now home to, among others, a MAC cosmetics store; Atmos, a Japanese-owned store specializing in hard-to-find sneakers, with a flagship in the Harajuku district of Tokyo; Old Navy and H & M.
 ''Harlem is so much more than just 125th Street,'' said Faith Hope Consolo, the chairwoman of the retail leasing and sales division at Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''There is so much retail potential there,'' said Ms. Consolo, who is scouting sites for several clients. ''The challenge is to choose the right location.'' 
 Springing up along and just off Seventh and Lenox Avenues, from about 114th Street to 135th Street, are stores like Pieces of Harlem, on West 135th Street, a boutique that sells denim skirts and jackets with Victorian-inspired ruffles and pearl buttons designed by the owners, Latisha and Colin Daring. It also carries draped jersey dresses ($354) by Rachel Roy, who is married to the rapper Damon Dash, and ribbon-trimmed T-shirts ($185) by Gwen Stefani.
 Montgomery, on Seventh Avenue, sells handbags, T-shirts and lingerie emblazoned with the image of Jolinda, a head-wrapped rag doll that recalls the Southern roots of its designer, Montgomery Harris, who moved her store from SoHo to Harlem about three years ago. Ms. Harris is also known for her whimsically hand-embroidered, one-of-a-kind skirts and dresses, many in a vintage mood ($400 to $500).
 Another new store is Denim Library, on Seventh Avenue, a repository for premium jeans like People's Liberation, Citizens for Humanity and Ciano Farmer, all of which are displayed folded with rear pockets on view in a series of library shelves, and sell for $130 to $750. Hats by Bunn, on Seventh Avenue, sells waxed-straw chapeaus and flat-top felt hats by Bunn, the Trinidad-born milliner.
 Bernard Oyama, the owner of B. Oyama, an elegant old-world style haberdashery on Seventh Avenue, sells his own designs of suits, shirts and neckwear, which are displayed amid a collection of black-and-white photographs of dapper greats like Miles Davis and Duke Ellington, each a reminder that the Harlem of the 30's through the 60's was a thriving style capital. 
 ''The idea was to bring back the sense of quality to Harlem,'' said Mr. Oyama, a native of Gabon who studied fashion design in Paris. His store draws locals and, he said, even greater numbers of clients from the Bronx, Brooklyn and New Jersey, who drop in from time to time to be fitted for custom-tailored suits ($800 to $2,200), and to pick up bow ties, cravats and kaleidoscopically colorful gingham and paisley pocket squares.
 Not every store is so rarefied. Harlemade, which has been at 116th Street for six years, is stocked with books and photographs offering glimpses of the historic area and its architecture. It also sells handbags, dolls and an assortment of T-shirts bearing Harlem logos. 
 ''I was the first to brand Harlem,'' insisted Murphy Heyliger, an owner. ''Since then I've seen other companies realize you can get cool by putting your neighborhood on a shirt.'' 
 Mr. Heyliger is typical of the merchants catering to both residents and visitors drawn to a Harlem that is increasingly perceived as romantic and vibrant enough to draw several thousand tourists on weekends, many of whom place boutique-hopping high on an itinerary that might also include dining at Emperor's Roe or Settepani, and touring the Studio Museum, which exhibits the work of contemporary African-American artists.
 Despite those attractions, some skeptical local merchants and residents wonder if importing fancy wares to Harlem is not premature. The new boutiques are interspersed with bodegas, hairdressers and discount stores, and not all of the retail landscape looks promising. Stores like N ''may be too early,'' said Minya Quirk, the owner of Brand Pimps, a fashion consulting company, and a Harlem resident.
 Ms. Quirk also frets that the goods may not be relevant to a local population. ''Harlem residents have a deeply ingrained sense of personal style,'' she said. ''They know what they want, and I think a lot of retailers might underestimate that.'' 
 Not Mr. Ortiz, who argues that his inventory was conceived expressly to appeal to style-driven locals. N offers fashion at prices that vary from $165 for a cotton shirt with grosgrain detailing to $1,000 for a leather coat. Sizes range from 0 to 16. 
 ''We have a market here that has certain needs when it comes to sizing,'' he said. ''We're offering larger sizes mixed in with smaller ones in a very unapologetic way. And we're always making sure we'll accommodate a variety of body types.''
 The fashions are often more boldly patterned than those at shops in other neighborhoods. ''They reflect the way our uptown customers would like to wear clothes, and an understanding that this market is more heavily into color,'' Mr. Ortiz said. 
 Harlem shoppers also are serious fragrance consumers, which is evident from the proliferation of shops displaying ever-widening selections of designer scents. That infatuation attracted Laurice Rahme, the entrepreneur behind Bond No. 9, with scents named after New York neighborhoods. Ms. Rahme, who was prescient in branding the area with New Haarlem, a scent introduced in 2004, plans to open a store in Harlem this year. Her flagship is on Bond Street in Lower Manhattan. ''But what happened to retailing and tourism downtown is going to happen uptown,'' she predicted. 
 Bud Konheim, the chief executive of Nicole Miller, a line with hothouse colors and animated prints that are popular at N, is confident that a presence in the neighborhood is healthy for the bottom line. The collection at N is expected to generate $300,000 to $500,000 in its first year, he said.
 ''Harlem is an undiscovered secret for now, but that won't last,'' Mr. Konheim went on. ''Things are moving too fast.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PREMIUM BLENDS -- Clothing boutiques like N, above left, B. Oyama, above, and Pieces of Harlem, left, have found a home near Seventh Avenue north of Central Park. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
(Photo by John Lei for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
MOVING UP -- Montgomery Harris, top, moved her clothing boutique, Montgomery, to Seventh Avenue, above, from SoHo.
 BY DESIGN -- So Hunter owns the Denim Library, above and left, which has an extensive stock of detailed jeans. Below, Murphy Heyliger, left, and Kevin McGruder at their shop, Harlemade, on Seventh Avenue. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. G5)Map of Manhattan highlighting Harlem. (pg. G5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (88%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BRANDING (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (68%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (67%); CONDOMINIUMS (61%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%) Apparel

ORGANIZATION: B Oyama Homme (NYC Shop); Pieces of Harlem (NYC Store)

PERSON: Ruth La Ferla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



457 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Addiction at City Hall

 BODY:
Mayor John Fabrizi of Bridgeport, with his tearful admission that he used cocaine while in office, is the latest in a bewildering lineup of high-profile Connecticut officials who have committed crimes in the past five years. Mr. Fabrizi's predecessor, Joseph Ganim, is serving a prison terms for corruption. Former Gov. John G. Rowland recently completed a 10-month term for the same thing, and a former mayor of Waterbury, Philip Giordano, is serving 37 years for child molestation. This trend is not encouraging for the Land of Steady Habits. 
 The big difference with Mr. Fabrizi is that he has not been charged with any crime. United States Attorney Kevin O'Connor says that he is not the target of an investigation, although his office inadvertently revealed allegations of Mr. Fabrizi's cocaine use contained in F.B.I. documents. Whether he can hold on to his job may depend upon whether there are any further revelations about criminal acts.
But the current situation is bad enough. Bridgeport has a policy that sanctions employees who use illegal drugs, and Mr. Fabrizi's conduct violated the city's ethics policy, which he signed into law. Further, the city -- and its economic revival -- depend on having a chief executive who has the public's confidence and is able to work with full energy and effectiveness. The jury is still out on whether Mr. Fabrizi can continue to govern effectively. 
 Addiction and alcohol abuse afflict the humble and the powerful alike. There are moving instances of public figures, among them former Gov. Ann Richards of Texas, whose forthright discussion of recovery from addiction have helped countless others. Before becoming mayor, Mr. Fabrizi spent 25 years as an educator, teaching fifth and sixth grades. If he can do all the things necessary to restore dignity to the office that he has sullied, he may yet teach his greatest lesson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COCAINE (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MISCONDUCT (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); ETHICS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (56%); CHILDREN (56%); EXECUTIVES (51%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



458 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Ranks of City's Middle Class Are Thinnest in the Nation

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York has a smaller share of middle-income families than any other major metropolitan area in the nation, and like residents of most American cities and suburbs, they live in a dwindling number of middle-income neighborhoods, according to a new analysis of census figures released yesterday.
 Only Los Angeles has a smaller proportion of middle-income neighborhoods than New York, and not by much. 
In metropolitan New York, 16.2 percent of the families and 28.3 percent of the neighborhoods were identified as middle-income. 
 ''Middle-income neighborhoods are vanishing faster than middle-income families,'' said the nationwide analysis, done by the Brookings Institution in Washington.
 The analysis attributed the shrinking number of middle-income communities to, among other factors, gentrification of more marginal neighborhoods and a bunching of high-income families in more homogenous surroundings. 
 ''It sounds like it's a function of changing income distribution,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. ''What happened between 1990 and 2000 in metropolitan New York and especially New York City was that the number of really high-income households went up, and low-income went up and the middle shrank.'' 
 ''What looks like a shrinking middle is partly an upgrading of income,'' he added. 
 The hollowing out was most pronounced in Manhattan, where 51 percent of neighborhoods were identified as high-income, 40 percent as low-income and only 8 percent as middle-income. Long Island ranked second only to Scranton with the highest proportion, 65 percent, of middle-income neighborhoods of any metropolitan areas in the nation. 
 The analysis found ''increasing heterogeneity in some neighborhoods,'' but concluded that ''by and large, however, families at either end of the distribution appeared to occupy more economically homogeneous neighborhoods in 2000 than they did in 1970.''
 In New York City, between 1970 and 2000, the share of neighborhoods classified as lower-income rose to 31 percent from 20 percent, middle-income neighborhoods declined to 30 percent from 42 percent, and higher-income neighborhoods remained almost unchanged, about 38 percent. 
 ''You see a dramatic shift between 1970 and 1980 and then more stability since then, although the proportion of families with so-called middle incomes continues to decline,'' said Alan Berube, a fellow in the metropolitan policy program at Brookings.
 While concentrated poverty, where 40 percent or more of the population live below the poverty line, declined in many areas, those neighborhoods still tended to have incomes far below the median, which was about $42,000 in 2000. 
 ''The share of New York City neighborhoods with very low incomes decreased in the 1990's, from 12.1 to 9.1 percent, and the share with low incomes increased, from 17.8 to 21.6 percent,'' Mr. Berube said. ''This may capture the decline in concentrated poverty, but it did not result in an increase in middle-income neighborhoods.''
 The decline in the share of New York City middle-income families was smaller than in most other cities, including Atlanta, Chicago and Philadelphia. The 12-percentage-point drop in the share of New York City neighborhoods classified as middle-income was less than the much steeper declines in Baltimore, Chicago and Philadelphia.
 ''Queens and Brooklyn actually seem to remain havens for middle-income families,'' Mr. Berube said. ''Moreover, strong immigration to New York City during this period may have helped replenish its stock of moderate-income families and neighborhoods.''
 The analysis suggests that further changes may have taken place since 2000, but does not quantify them.
 ''The question is whether, since 2000, housing price gains and gentrification might have 'tipped' lower-income neighborhoods into middle-income status, or middle-income neighborhoods into high-income status,'' Mr. Berube said. ''Just looking at the Greenpoint-Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, it's notable that only 8 of roughly 50 census tracts had median family incomes above the city median in 2000. So here and elsewhere we might see evidence of increasing middle-income neighborhoods by 2010.''
 Staten Island had the highest percentage of very high-income neighborhoods, 56 percent, of any borough. In the Bronx, 56 percent were classified as low income, with fully 25 percent as very low, defined as less than 50 percent of the median. 
 Nationwide, the analysis found that middle-income neighborhoods declined in 2000 to 41 percent of all metropolitan neighborhoods, from 58 percent in 1970. In 12 metropolitan areas studied in greater detail, they declined to 23 percent from 45 percent in the central cities. Even in the suburbs, their share shrank to 44 percent from 64 percent. 
 ''Families earning between 80 percent and 120 percent of their metropolitan-area median incomes -- what many would consider to be the 'middle class' -- shrank from 28 percent of the total in 1970 to less than 22 percent by 2000,'' according to the analysis, by Jason C. Booza, Jackie Cutsinger and George Galster of Wayne State University for Brookings. 
 While the growing share of high-income families in some areas could be considered positive, the analysis said, the sharper increase in lower-income families and the decline in middle-income families ''overshadowed that good news.''
 The analysis defined very low income as less than 50 percent of the median in the area studied, low as 50 to 80 percent, high as 120 to 150 percent and very high as more than 150 percent above the median. In the 12 areas studied more thoroughly, moderate income ranged from $59,313 in Atlanta to $72,247 in Washington.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Shifts in the City's Income Groups''The number of middle-income census tracts in New York City has declined since 1970, according to the Brookings Institution's analysis of census data.Graph tracks the Share Of Census Tracts In Each Income Group since 1970.INCOME TYPE IN EACH BOROUGH (2000)BronxLower -- 56%Middle -- 22Higher -- 22BrooklynLower -- 39Middle -- 34Higher -- 27ManhattanLower -- 40Middle -- 8Higher -- 51QueensLower -- 10Middle -- 41Higher -- 49Staten IslandLower -- 5Middle -- 17Higher -- 78Note: Percentages may not add to 100 because of rounding.(Sources by Brookings Institution
 U.S. Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (95%); FAMILY (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CENSUS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (68%) Income; Census; Housing

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Brookings Institution

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



459 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: World War II Anniversary Prompts Tribute to Russian Dead

BYLINE: COMPILED by ALEXANDER NURNBERG

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers appears Monday through Friday.
 TODAY'S TOP STORIES
Russian newspapers Thursday unanimously paid tribute to the dead of World War II, known here as the Great Patriotic War, 65 years to the day after Nazi forces invaded the country. 
 The war, as Izvestia put it, echoing the sentiment of all the assorted papers, "trampled hopes, broke fates, doomed millions to death. But not to oblivion. Those who remain alive do not make their peace with death, they remember those they lost, and their children inherit this memory. And so the longest day in our history 22 June 1941 does not end." 
 The front page of Rossiskaya Gazeta, Russia's official state newspaper, showed a picture taken by a German photographer of a single dead Soviet soldier. The paper gestured to the photograph's symbolism: "The dead soldier is awkwardly curled up in a fetal position. His death resembles a birth. Had he not died in 1941, had death not stopped in 1945, had Victory not been born, our life would not have been."
 Pravda, the well-known official newspaper of the Communist Party, said that the Soviet Union "made the decisive contribution to liberate Europe from fascism." It argued that the "courage, resolve and selflessness" of the Soviet people must especially be remembered now, "while the leaders of the United States and the European Union are striving to revive the anti-Communist mentality of the 'Cold War,' spreading the deceitful idea that fascism and Communism were tarred with the same brush." 
 Vedomosti, by contrast, wrote that victory in that war "was not proof" of the success or capability of the system, either politically or economically. Vremya Novostei published a selection of letters written by soldiers of varying ranks in the first months of the war. "Letters are the best testaments of war," Vremya Novostei wrote, and the letters of that war reveal "the atmosphere of those days," laced with the "influence of powerful propaganda, and the dread of saying something 'not quite right,' that might attract the meticulous censor's eye." 
 "The Great Patriotic War will not end soon," Vedomosti wrote, "because the last soldier in that war has yet to be buried." Some 4.5 million men and women who fell between 1941 and 1945, the paper reported, have yet to be found. 
 IN OTHER NEWS
 ROSSISKAYA GAZETA
 TURKMENISTAN TO RAISE GAS PRICES: Ashkhabad has announced that it will raise the cost of gas sold to Gazprom from 65 dollars per 1000 cubic meters, to 100 dollars. If a new contract is not signed, Turkmenistan threatens to cut off gas supplies to Russia, said its minister for oil and gas. Turkmenistan has "never before talked to Russia in that tone," Rossiskaya Gazeta writes. Turkmen gas was a crucial element in resolving the gas crisis with Ukraine in January of this year, because Gazprom decided to merge cheap Turkmen gas with expensive Russian gas, and to charge a compromise price between the two. The paper writes that one should now expect a "sharp flare-up" in gas relations between Russia and Ukraine and Belarus.
 IZVESTIA
 ISRAEL DENIES CONTRACT TO RUSSIAN COMPANY: Russneft, a Russian oil company, has been refused the tender to privatize an Israeli oil refinery near Haifa on the grounds that it posed "a threat to national security assets," a move the paper calls "harmful for Israel's international image." Izvestia writes that although four Israeli companies also made bids, Russneft's was the strongest, because it is also an oil-extractor the eighth largest in Russia. The "apparent main reason" for the rejection was that "Israel, which is not a secular state, is attempting in this way to express its negative opinion of a Russian businessman who is Moslem by faith and Ingushetian by origin. But Mikhail Gutseriyev" the owner of Russneft "is widely known for his charitable help to various religious groups, including Jewish spiritual organizations and synagogues." Izvestia also writes that Mr. Gutseriyev has often worked with Islamic and Arabic countries in the past, which "Israel read as dangerous," and that many Israelis, including those in the security services, might have been concerned that "one of the biggest oil refineries in the country might get into the hands of a 'carpet-bagger'." 
 VREMYA NOVOSTEI
 CHIEF SANITARY DOCTOR WILL 'PUNISH' UNFAVORABLE COURT DECISION: Russia's Chief Sanitary Doctor, Gennady Onischenko, who has banned Georgian and Moldovan wines from Russia's stores, first on the grounds that they were unsafe, and now on the grounds that they are faked, lost a court case Tuesday and vowed to protest and punish the judge in question. The suit filed by his federal agency, Rospotrebnadzor, called for the disposal of large quantities of Georgian wine, but was turned down by a Moscow judge, Svetlana Mikhalina. "Mr. Onischenko's indignation is understandable," Vremya Novostei writes, because of the hundreds of suits filed by the agency, most are already won. Rospotrebnadzor won 104 court cases against wine producers in May alone. Mr. Onischenko said that the present case was "rushed" and "tendentious," and he intends, as the paper puts it, "to hail all conceivable punishments upon the head of the judge." 
 GAZETA
 PROPOSAL WOULD HAVE JUDGES REVEAL EARNINGS: A session of the High Arbitration Court on Thursday was to consider a bill to amend the federal law on judges in Russia. The court would like to compel judges to present an annual account of all their earnings and property, including real estate and vehicle, as well as details of savings in bank accounts, in a bid to counter corruption. 
 NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA
 ONE IN TWO RUSSIANS GIVES BRIBES: A poll conducted by the All-Russian Center for the Study of Social Opinion, which involved 1,500 respondents across 46 different Russian provinces, found that 55 percent gave bribes to solve their problems. The poll's results suggest that the most corrupt people those most likely to demand or accept bribes are doctors, followed by traffic police and teachers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (60%); GAZP (RTS) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (60%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (60%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); TURKMENISTAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



460 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 514 words

PERSON: Arthur M. Wood

HEADLINE: Arthur Wood, Executive, 93, Who Led Sears 

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Arthur M. Wood, the executive at Sears, Roebuck & Company who oversaw the completion of the company's tower in Chicago even as the chain's domination of the American retail market was eroding, died Sunday in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 93. 
 The cause was complications of pneumonia, according to his son, Art Wood Jr.
Mr. Wood spent most of his career at Sears, the retailing giant that was much a part of America's postwar economic boom, suburban expansion and consumer prosperity. 
 When he was appointed chairman and chief executive in 1973, Business Week called him a ''sophisticated urbane intellectual with impeccable social credentials,'' according to the book ''The Big Store: Inside the Crisis and Revolution at Sears.'' He served until 1978, when he retired at age 65.
 In those days, Sears dominated American retailing, with 400,000 employees and 900 stores, selling millions of products from power tools to refrigerators, credit card services and insurance. At one time, its sales accounted for 2 percent of America's gross national product. 
 But signs of Sears's decline were visible during Mr. Wood's tenure. Rising inflation, an economic slowdown, and ultimately, lower-cost and nimbler competitors undermined the company. Mr. Wood blamed the recession, not the company's strategy.
 In the mid-1970's, its insurance business, Allstate, drained the company's profits, while competition from retailers like Montgomery Ward and J. C. Penney, hurt sales. To reverse the slowdown, Mr. Wood hired an outside consultant, McKinsey & Company, a first in the company's century in business. Eventually, Sears would prove powerless against the efficiency of Wal-Mart.
 But even as difficulties loomed, Sears made its mark on the Chicago skyline. 
 In 1973, the company opened a headquarters that was to be a symbol of its power; the 110-story tower was then the world's tallest building. Mr. Wood was involved in the planning and construction of the building in downtown Chicago and he signed the final beam.
 The Sears Tower surpassed the twin towers of the World Trade Center in Manhattan, which were completed in 1971 and 1972. Sears moved out of the building in 1995.
 Arthur MacDougall Wood was born Jan. 21, 1913, in Chicago, and grew up in Highland Park, Ill., where he attended high school before spending two years at the Los Alamos Ranch School, an exclusive school for boys in New Mexico.
 He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University and received a law degree from Harvard in 1937.
 After graduation, he joined the law firm of Bell, Boyd & Marshall in Chicago. In 1941, he joined the Army Air Corps, serving as a lieutenant colonel, and was part of a group planning the strategic bombing of Germany.
 In 1946, both Mr. Wood and his brother, Robert, joined Sears at the behest of General Robert E. Wood, the company's chairman and a family friend, though not a relative. Mr. Wood's first task was to set up the legal department. 
 Besides his son, he is survived by a daughter, Pauline Wood Egan, and seven grandchildren. His wife, Pauline Palmer Wood, died in 1984.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DEATHS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); RECESSION (75%); PNEUMONIA (72%); RELOCATIONS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); INFLATION (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); BOMBINGS (60%); SUBURBS (56%); CREDIT CARDS (53%); ARMIES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (66%); ALLSTATE CORP (55%); K&L GATES LLP (51%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%)

Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (50%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



461 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Pie Topped With Spleen, and Other Hard-Boiled Tales

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:

Thriller
Stories to Keep You Up All Night
Edited by James Patterson
568 pages. Mira. $24.95.
 International Thriller Writers Inc., an organization founded in 2004, has over 400 members whose combined sales figures add up to more than 1.6 billion books. Now this group has issued an anthology -- with its title in raised letters and blood on its cover, of course -- to illustrate what thriller writers do.
On the evidence of ''Thriller,'' one thing they do is dust the cobwebs off fragments and outtakes and package them as short stories. Another is direct those stories toward grisly, unmotivated violence, the ghastlier the better. A third is cook up tough-guy names for characters (''Major Frost Jorgenson'') or for strings of books (''Recoil,'' ''Recon,'' ''Return''). Many also lay claim to attributes as interesting as those of their characters. ''Thriller'' illustrates that too. 
 One contributor, Raelynn Hillhouse, is a former Fulbright fellow who lives on the slopes of the Mauna Loa volcano. She ''has not only faced the barrels of Kalashnikovs'' but has also ''run Cuban rum between East and West Berlin, smuggled jewels from the Soviet Union and forged Eastern bloc visas.'' Ms. Hillhouse's story, ''Diplomatic Constraints,'' is comparably daring. It features a shotgun-packing Stella in the midst of real turmoil: a fierce attack on the American Embassy in Pakistan in 1979, two weeks after a similar, better-publicized event in Iran.
 Although ''Thriller'' has been edited by James Patterson and blurbed by some of the genre's luminaries, its emphasis is not on well-known practitioners. Prolific as he is, Mr. Patterson hasn't supplied a story. 
 One of the few high-profile contributors is Lee Child, the best thriller writer of the moment, whose contribution comes from an early draft of an early novel and offers a brief but revealing glimpse of the author's character Jack Reacher. Mr. Child is also a contributor to the dueling anthology ''Death Do Us Part,'' the Mystery Writers of America's book edited by Harlan Coben and due later this summer.
 So thriller writing and mystery writing overlap. But how? The best answer ''Thriller'' offers is that if mysteries depend on deductive processes, thrillers care more about ''bloated intestines strung across the ground like festive streamers,'' as James Rollins so enthusiastically puts it. Each of this book's stories is a build-up to deadly mayhem, which is often committed at the expense of reason. These tales would rather kill off the wrong man than not kill anybody at all.
 For instance, one of the better entries here is Gregg Hurwitz's ''Dirty Weather,'' which is set in a truck-stop restaurant in the dead of a Michigan winter and develops its characters well, at least for a few pages. The place is near a prison and is popular with guards; when a new guy shows up, he catches the eye of the proprietor's daughter. Then, trouble: ''The door smashed open and a man with a gun charged them, screaming so loud flecks of saliva dotted the bar.'' Although this uproar ought to be sufficient, the story gratuitously leaves somebody to die in the snow.
 Law enforcement figures are a major presence here. For instance, there is Alex Kava's Special Agent Maggie O'Dell, who thinks of apple pie as gory because she once saw ''a perfect piece of apple pie with the victim's bloody spleen neatly arranged on top.'' Instead of treating this as a revelation about Maggie, Ms. Kava puts it on her story's second page and makes it a way of saying hello. 
 The book's more effective writers are at least able to do this with economy. (From J. A. Konrath: ''Bang bang and he was a paycheck for the coroner.'') But there is plenty of overwriting here too. (From Heather Graham: ''The wind railed with the sharpness of a banshee's shriek.'') And some of it wouldn't get past a high school English teacher. (From M. Diane Vogt: ''The night-light illuminated him enough that the camera would record perfectly.'') 
 ''Thriller'' slows down for a couple of incongruous period pieces, like ''The Double Dealer'' by David Liss, with its 18th-century setting and emphasis on flatulence, or ''The Tuesday Club,'' by Katherine Neville, featuring Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin and other well-known Americans in Paris. (''One might be lonely in Paris, thought Abigail Adams with chagrin -- but one could surely never be alone!'') 
 The only dated stories of real interest are those that trace the thriller's evolution. ''Success of a Mission,'' by Dennis Lynds, offers a glimpse of Arab-American relations circa 1968 and expertly deploys old-school espionage tricks like microfilm hidden in a piece of halvah.
 The best of this book's contributors illustrate why quick thinking is more interesting than a thumb in the eye (''going all the way through the cornea, the meniscus, and into the brain,'' in the words of David Dun). 
 The most welcome discovery, for readers new to the thriller universe, is F. Paul Wilson's Repairman Jack. The character is enjoyably well drawn, and he's no James Bond: ''Interlude at Duane's'' centers on a robbery at a Duane Reade drugstore in New York and calls on Jack to outsmart the thieves with whatever he can find amid the merchandise. It's the rare story here that has a beginning, middle and ending, as well as some neat tricks in between.
 Though many of its authors write books that move quickly, ''Thriller'' itself is surprisingly slow going. That's because each story's contrivances take getting used to. And the more far-fetched they are, the harder that is. 
 One moment the hook is drug-smuggling in Albania; at another it's the blackmailing of a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills. Even the switch from Christopher Rice (secret homosexuality) to Christopher Reich (fine dining) is more difficult than it sounds.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Patterson (Photo by Sue Solie Patterson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SMUGGLING (51%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (90%) Janet Maslin; James Patterson

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (68%); PAKISTAN (68%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



462 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Almaty Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Up, Up and Away: New Towers, and Ambitions to Match

BYLINE: By ILAN GREENBERG

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan, June 21 

 BODY:
In a country overrun with construction cranes, where new buildings tend to look like Persian carpets with lobbies, a sleek high-concept building design has city boosters excited.
 The building, which broke ground in March, will be the tallest in Central Asia. But few people in this booming city of 1.2 million seem animated by its height.
Rather, Almaty is aglow over its style. The six-building mixed-use project, known as the Marriott building because the tallest tower, 38 stories, will house the luxury Almaty JW Marriott Hotel, is notable for its modern lines, light steel and glass encasement, clever geometric corners, and a near total lack of kitsch. 
 The project is not slated for completion until next year, but already many have declared it a symbol of the city's coal-hot potential, an iconic structure that reflects Almaty's potential economic might.
 ''This project and the others that will follow it will prove the coming of age of Almaty and Kazakhstan as a global economic force,'' said Nick James of the Almaty office of Aedas, an architecture firm with principal offices in London and Hong Kong. 
 The Marriott project is a residential, office, retail and fitness complex (actually named Esentai Park), designed by the New York firm Skidmore Owings & Merrill and set on a prominent plateau near where Almaty ends and forbidding snowcapped mountains begin.
 ''This building is high class,'' said Magzhan Auezov, managing director of Kazkommertsbank, the local bank financing the project, with a rap of his knuckles on his desk. ''This building is a New York building. Or it could be in Europe.'' 
 Just a few years ago, this city was drab and run-down, and its skyline looked unpromising. In 1997 Kazakhstan moved its capital from Almaty to a grass field 1,000 miles to the north. The new capital, Astana, appeared to be the likely beneficiary of Kazakhstan's potentially huge oil and gas revenues as the energy fields in the Caspian Sea developed. 
 Now Almaty seems to be on its way to becoming a city whose ambitions, including a bid for the 2014 Winter Olympics, deserve to be taken seriously.
 Almaty's unlikely odyssey has been powered by the high price of oil, a government push to keep commerce centered here, and foreign investor interest. Kazakhstan could become one of the bigger oil exporters, and already sells 1.3 million barrels of oil a day. Almaty's highly capitalized banks are the biggest private financial institutions in the former Soviet Union. 
 For some in Almaty, the design-driven Marriott project reflects something even grander: a new sophistication.
 ''It's hard to describe what it was like in Almaty just a couple of years ago,'' said Natalia Sludskaya, editor in chief of the Kazakhstan edition of Cosmopolitan magazine. ''There's a new style here. Men are more ambitious. Women are getting married later, they have their own apartments. Attitudes about sex are changing very fast. People know how to dress. Everything is changing.''
 Change is reflected in Almaty's festive rooftop bars, busy restaurants and congested streets. Bibliotheque, an expensive French restaurant, opened in 2002 but imported a head chef from France this year for the first time. The revised menu introduces Almaty's diners to bouillabaisse, veal carpaccio and foie gras on toast with mango sauce.
 ''Everyone thought I was nuts when I first came here nine years ago,'' said Bruce Gaston, who is Irish and has worked for various financial and oil-related companies here. ''No one thinks I'm nuts now.''
 Just a few years ago, Almaty was hemorrhaging residents to Moscow and Europe. Now the population is growing rapidly as migrants from the countryside seek out the many jobs here in construction and light industry.
 ''With the current state of economy, I see in four or five years from now that we will most probably be bringing people from other countries into Kazakhstan to work in the hotel business,'' said Dejan Djordjevic, general manager of the Hyatt Regent Almaty, one of two existing luxury hotels in the city.
 Residential real estate prices have increased fourfold in the last four years. According to government figures, Kazakhstan's economy, which has expanded by 50 percent in the past five years, is twice as large as the economies of all other Central Asian countries put together. In the first half of this year, Kazakhstan's gross domestic product increased by 9.1 percent, and it is expected to triple the 2000 figure by 2015.
 The country is ''well on the road to having one of the 50 most competitive economies in the world,'' said Dennis Price, general director of Bogatyr Access Komyr, the biggest coal mining company in Kazakhstan. 
 Still, talk of becoming the next Dubai competes against widespread civic worry over oil's historic curse: a hollow economic boom dependent on high energy prices rather than human capital.
 ''There are issues of sustainability of economic growth in the country, and Almaty specifically,'' said Tanya Costello, an analyst with the private political risk consultancy Eurasia Group, in New York. Still, Ms. Costello said, she is bullish over all. 
 ''Almaty is certainly well placed to become a hub for regional business going forward,'' she said.
 But a word of warning came from Karim Massimov, Kazakhstan's deputy prime minister. ''With the high price of oil, it's easy to become lazy,'' he said. ''We have to manage to survive even we had no oil.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: There is no shortage of Mercedes-Benzes and Toyotas at the headquarters of several oil consultants. Energy reserves drive the economy.
 Almaty, the ex-capital of Kazakhstan and once known for its drabness, is becoming a far more sophisticated business center. A fashionable bride, Karashash Maldabekova, left, recently joined other wedding parties gathered in Republic Square for bubbly toasts (albeit from humble plastic cups). (Photographs by Dean Cox for The New York Times)Map of Kazakhstan shows the location of Almaty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); OLYMPICS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (61%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (72%); JSC KAZKOMMERTSBANK (66%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (54%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (72%); KKB (LSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) KAZAKHSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



463 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 470 words

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:

8 P.M. (Turner Classic Movies) BILLYWILDER SPEAKS -- And boy, does he have a lot to say. In 1988, Wilder (right) -- director, writer and producer sublime -- agreed to be interviewed by a German film crew on the condition that his revelations not be disclosed until after his death. This 90-minute special, edited down from a longer television series, celebrates WilderOs 100th birthday (he died in 2002) with snippets from films including ''Double Indemnity,'' ''Sabrina'' and ''Sunset Boulevard'' and nuggets about leading ladies like Audrey Hepburn, Gloria Swanson and Marilyn Monroe. 


8 P.M. (CBS) GAMESHOW MARATHON -- Lance Bass and Kathy Najimy try to fill in the blanks of questions posed by six celebrity panelists in ''Match Game,'' the latest installment in this competition series. Gene Rayburn was the host and Richard Dawson, Brett Somers and Charles Nelson Reilly the panelists in the 1970's, when the show, rife with double entendres and more than a hint of suggestiveness, became the most popular daytime program ever. This time around Adam Corolla, Adrianne Curry, George Foreman, Kathy Griffin, Bruce Vilanch and Betty White will provide the touch of raunch, with Ricki Lake overseeing the mayhem.

9 P.M. (13) A LION IN THE HOUSE -- Part 2 of this ''Independent Lens'' documentary, filmed over six years at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, looks at some of the obstacles facing five children with cancer and their families: the emotional and economic impact of experimental treatments, disparities among diagnoses and the difference between giving up and letting go.

9 P.M. (Sundance) HOUSE OF BOATENG -- Move over, Bravo. The Sundance Channel is posed to push ''Queer Eye'' and ''Project Runway'' off the catwalk with this new reality series following the British designer Ozwald Boateng (above), creative director of Givenchy, to America as he prepares to sink or swim.

9 P.M. (BBC America) WATERLOO ROAD -- What happens when the faculty at a troubled English high school is more out-of-control than the students? This series, that's what. In this new episode, a teacher announces she is pregnant, while another sets up a date with the principal.

11:35 (NBC) THE TONIGHT SHOW WITH JAY LENO -- Look, up in the sky! It's a bird! No, it's the plane flying in Kevin Spacey to promote his star turn in ''Superman Returns'' as Lex Luthor, a performance he says was inspired by Enron's deposed prince of darkness, Kenneth Lay. Taylor Hicks, who rose from Southern shlub to People magazine's hottest bachelor in the blink of an ''Idol,'' is the musical guest.

11:35 (CBS) LATE SHOW WITH DAVID LETTERMAN -- Shhh. Is that another Oscar nomination we hear in Meryl Streep's (right) future? Tonight she talks with Mr. Letterman about Vogue-ing for the camera in ''The Devil Wears Prada.''
 KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Photofest/TCM)
(Photo by Sundance)
 (Photo by Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); CHILDREN (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (78%); FILM (78%); WRITERS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (71%); FAMILY (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (64%); CANCER (64%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BETTY WHITE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



464 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Facing Skeptics in Europe, Defends His Iraq Policy

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: VIENNA, June 21 

 BODY:
President Bush, visiting this Central European city with the aim of promoting trans-Atlantic unity, instead issued an impassioned defense of his Iraq policy on Wednesday amid pointed reminders of how far the United States has fallen in the eyes of many Europeans.
 ''That's absurd!'' Mr. Bush declared, dismissing a European reporter's suggestion that most Europeans regard the United States as a bigger threat to global stability than North Korea, which has proclaimed it has nuclear arms, and Iran, which is suspected of developing them. 
''Look, people didn't agree with my decision on Iraq, and I understand that,'' he continued, clearly irritated, when another reporter asked about a poll showing European discontent with his policies. ''For Europe, September the 11th was a moment; for us, it was a change of thinking.''
 Mr. Bush's heated exchange with European reporters -- under the glittering chandeliers of the marble-columned throne room in the Hofburg Palace, once the imperial home of the Hapsburgs -- followed a meeting of Mr. Bush and leaders of the European Union. They discussed issues that included the nuclear tensions with North Korea and Iran, a faltering world trade pact and demands by the Europeans for the United States to close the detainee center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 Few, if any, decisions were reached. Mr. Bush described the so-called Doha trade negotiations, which are stalled over the issue of agricultural subsidies, as ''tough work'' and said, as he has before, that he would not close Guantanamo. That issue threatened to overshadow the meeting, so much so that Mr. Bush initiated discussion on it during his session with Chancellor Wolfgang Schussel of Austria, the European Union president, and Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, the European Union's governing body.
 ''He didn't wait that we raise the question,'' Mr. Schussel said at the news conference, standing with Mr. Barroso alongside Mr. Bush. ''He came up and said, 'Look, this is my problem, this is where we are.' '' 
 The meeting came at a delicate moment for the White House on Iraq. After two weeks of trying to capitalize on the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Bush administration is now faced with the ugly news of the capture, torture and killing of two American soldiers in Iraq. On Capitol Hill, lawmakers are engaged in an intense debate over whether to set a timetable for the withdrawal of troops.
 Against this backdrop, the White House is pursuing an aggressive strategy of embracing the war, believing it is better to confront Americans' unease about Iraq than to let it fester. In a sense, then, the president's defiant stance on Iraq in Europe simply echoed the course he is pursuing at home.
 Mr. Bush's arrival here was greeted with largely peaceful protests. His remarks on the war were not very different than what he had said before. But the vigor of his defense, coming at a time when he is trying to repair frayed relations with Europeans and has joined them in trying to negotiate a peaceful end to Iran's nuclear program, underscored how fragile those relations remain. 
 At one point, Mr. Schussel stepped in to defend Mr. Bush, recalling his own boyhood in post-World War II Vienna, when the city lay in ruins and Americans offered food and aid. ''Without America, what fate would have Europe?'' he said, adding, ''I think we should be fair from the other side of the Atlantic.''
 Though the official agenda for the European meeting was centered on terrorism, energy and trade, Iran and North Korea loomed large over the talks. On North Korea, Mr. Bush sidestepped a question about how the United States might respond to a missile test. He said simply, ''The North Koreans have made agreements with us in the past, and we expect them to keep their agreements.''
 John R. Bolton, the American ambassador to the United Nations, on Wednesday rejected what appeared to be an offer from North Korea to discuss its preparations for a missile test, Reuters reported. ''It's not a way to produce a conversation,'' he said, ''because if you acquiesce in aberrant behavior you simply encourage the repetition of it, which we're obviously not going to do.''
 Mr. Bolton also told CNN that China should do more to persuade North Korea not to test its missile.
 Wednesday's meeting here reflected what Ivo H. Daalder, a foreign policy analyst at the Brookings Institution, called Mr. Bush's ''delicate minuet'' with Europe.
 A poll released last week by the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan organization in Washington, found that most people surveyed in 10 of 14 foreign countries said the war in Iraq had made the world more dangerous. In France, 36 percent of those surveyed cited American involvement in Iraq as a threat to world peace, as opposed to 31 percent citing Iran and 16 percent citing North Korea.
 Despite the numbers, analysts say, tensions have been easing since Mr. Bush's last trip to Europe, in 2005. Now, as he emphasizes a peaceful resolution in Iran, foreign policy experts say he has improved his credibility with European governments, if not the European people. 
 ''I don't think Europeans are ever going to learn to love George Bush,'' said Mark Leonard, director of foreign policy at the Center for European Reform, a research institution in London. But, he said, ''I think there has been a remarkable honeymoon between governments.'' 
 That honeymoon does not extend to the local press. On Tuesday, anticipating Mr. Bush's arrival, an Austrian commentator, Hans Rauscher, offered a brutal assessment of Mr. Bush in the newspaper Der Standard, calling him ''probably the worst president of the past 100 years.''
 But Mr. Bush fought back, citing American aid to Africa to fight the AIDS epidemic and his declaration of genocide in Darfur as examples of American compassion.
 ''I will do my best to explain our foreign policy,'' he said. ''On the one hand, it's tough when it needs to be; on the other hand, it's compassionate. And we'll let the polls figure out -- people can say what they want to say.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with President Heinz Fischer of Austria in Vienna yesterday. Mr. Bush also met with other leaders of the European Union. (Photo by Rudi Blaha/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TORTURE (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HEINZ FISCHER (79%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); CUBA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



465 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: America In 2026

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Have we become too selfish and cynical? Or is the U.S. -- despite being shaken by terror and distressed by the unending conflict in Iraq -- ready to roll up its sleeves and renew its commitment to some of the goals and themes that once formed the basis of the American dream?
 John Edwards is betting on the latter. In a major speech today at the National Press Club in Washington, Mr. Edwards, the former North Carolina senator who was John Kerry's running mate in the 2004 presidential election, will ask: 
''What kind of America do we want -- not just today, but 20 years from now? And how do we think we can get there from here?''
 It's a speech that's different from the poll-tested, freeze-dried political pap we've come to expect from politicians. For one thing, Mr. Edwards, who's part of the growing pack of Democratic marathoners seeking the party's 2008 nomination, wrote it himself. For another, he unfashionably (and unabashedly) appeals to the better angels of the electorate.
 ''It's wrong,'' he says, ''to have 37 million Americans living in poverty, separated from the opportunities of this country by their income, their housing, their access to education and jobs and health care -- just as it was wrong that we once lived in a country legally separated by race.''
 In an echo of the can-do spirit that was characteristic of the post-World War II period, Mr. Edwards asserts that with the proper leadership, the United States can ''restore the moral core and legitimacy that has been the foundation of our influence'' abroad, while at the same time tackling tough issues here at home: poverty, the need for greater energy independence and a fairer shake for all Americans who have to work for a living, including ''the forgotten middle class.''
 In his draft of the speech (and in a telephone interview yesterday), Mr. Edwards said that at least 40,000 American troops should be brought home from Iraq immediately, and further reductions should continue steadily, ''so that the Iraqis can take control over their own lives.''
 He says, at the top of the speech, that ''our military power is fortunately strong, and we must keep it that way.'' But he also says, ''I want to live in an America that has not sacrificed individual liberties in the name of freedom; where, in the fight to preserve the country we love, we do not sacrifice the country we love; where we don't make excuses for violating civil rights, though we understand that the test of liberty is in the moments when such excesses almost sound reasonable.''
 Since leaving the Senate, Mr. Edwards has served as the director of the Center on Poverty, Work and Opportunity at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He believes the number of Americans in poverty can be cut by a third over the next 10 years, and that the U.S. should work toward the complete elimination of poverty over the next three decades. 
 He will say in the speech that one of the reasons so many working Americans remain trapped in poverty is that work often doesn't pay enough. ''A single mom with two kids who works full time for the minimum wage is about $2,700 below the poverty line,'' he says. ''In 2005, while corporate profits were up 13 percent, real wages fell for most workers.''
 He believes, as do most Democrats, that the minimum wage must be raised, and that many more workers should be given a real opportunity to organize and bargain collectively. ''Unions helped move manufacturing jobs into the foundation of our middle class,'' he says, ''and they can do the same for our service economy.''
 He also believes -- and this is certain to be controversial -- that federal housing policy needs to be overhauled and a greater effort made ''to integrate our neighborhoods economically.''
 ''If conservatives really believed in markets,'' he says, ''they'd join us in a more radical and more sensible solution: creating one million more housing vouchers for working families over the next five years. Done right, vouchers can enable people to vote with their feet to demand safe communities with good schools.''
 To remake American society in a way that is broadly beneficial (and that re-establishes our prestige and influence abroad) will require not just leadership, but sacrifice -- something that is seldom asked of most Americans -- and a real commitment to working together to solve the nation's biggest challenges.
 However one feels about his specific proposals, it's worth paying attention to the fact that Mr. Edwards is asking Americans to step up and meet that commitment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); MARATHONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); POVERTY RATES (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (57%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



466 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Our World Cup Edge

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Going into today's World Cup match against Ghana, no American player has managed to put a ball into the back of the net, but the U.S. team does lead the world in one vital category: college degrees.
 Most of the American players attended college. Eddie Pope went to the University of North Carolina, Kasey Keller attended the University of Portland and Marcus Hahnemann went to Seattle Pacific. 
 Many of the elite players from the rest of the world, on the other hand, were pulled from regular schools at early ages and sent to professional training academies. Among those sharp-elbowed, hypercompetitive Europeans, for example, Zinedine Zidane was playing for A.S. Cannes by age 16, Luis Figo was playing for Sporting Lisbon at 17, and David Beckham attended Tottenham Hotspur's academy and signed with Manchester United as a trainee at 16.
 The difference in preparation is probably bad for America's World Cup prospects, but it's good for America's economic and political prospects. That's because the difference in soccer training is part of a bigger phenomenon. American universities play a much broader social role than do universities elsewhere around the world. They not only serve as the training grounds for professional athletes, unthinkable in most other nations, they also contribute more to the cultures and economies around them. 
 The American university system was born with expansionist genes. As early Americans spread out across the frontier, they created not only new religious sects, but new colleges, too. The Dartmouth College case of 1819 restricted government's efforts to interfere in higher education. As the centuries rolled on, government did more to finance higher education, starting with the Morrill Land Grant College Act of 1862, but the basic autonomy of colleges and universities was preserved. They remained, and remain, spirited competitors in the marketplace of ideas, status, talent and donations. 
 The European system, by contrast, is state-dominated and uncompetitive. During the 19th century, governments in Spain, France and Germany abolished the universities' medieval privileges of independence. Governments took over funding and control, and imposed radical egalitarian agendas. Universities could not select students on merit, and faculty members became civil servants.
 The upshot is that the competitive American universities not only became the best in the world -- 8 out of the top 10 universities are American -- they also remained ambitious and dynamic. They are much more responsive to community needs.
 Not only have they created ambitious sports programs to build character among students and a sense of solidarity across the community, they also offer a range of extracurricular activities and student counseling services unmatched anywhere else. While the arts and letters faculties are sometimes politically cloistered, the rest of the university programs are integrated into society, performing an array of social functions.
 They serve as business incubation centers (go to Palo Alto). With their cultural and arts programs, they serve as retiree magnets (go to Charlottesville). With their football teams, they bind communities and break down social distinctions (people in Alabama are fiercely loyal to the Crimson Tide, even though most have not actually attended the university). 
 State-dominated European universities, by contrast, cast much smaller shadows. A Centre for European Reform report noted ''a drab uniformity'' across the systems. Talented professors leave. Funding lags. Antibusiness snobbery limits entrepreneurial activity. Research suffers. In the first half of the 20th century, 73 percent of Nobel laureates were based in Europe. Between 1995 and 2004, 19 percent were. 
 The two systems offer a textbook lesson in how to and how not to use government. In one system, the state supports local autonomy and private creativity. In the other, the state tries to equalize, but merely ends up centralizing and stultifying. This contrast might be worth dwelling upon as we contemplate health care reform, K-12 education reform and anything else government might touch. 
 The dynamic American university system is now undergoing yet another revolution -- globalization. More foreign students are coming to the U.S., and more want to stay after they get their degrees.
 This is bound to be great for American society. It will probably do almost nothing for our future World Cup prospects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SOCCER (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (72%); RELIGION (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (58%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (56%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); GHANA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006



467 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2109 words

HEADLINE: You'll Always Have Paris

BYLINE: By DEBORAH BALDWIN

 BODY:
PARIS does funny things to people. Imagine, for example, crawling off an airplane, making your way across the city with a bad case of jet lag and waking up the next day to find that you are the new owner of some stranger's apartment in the 17th Arrondissement.
 That would be where, exactly? And how much did it cost again?
''It happened so fast,'' said Deviyani Nautiyal, sounding surprised even several months later as she recounted a hunt that began at home, in front of a computer. ''I can't believe we bought an apartment within four hours of landing.'' 
 She was on the phone in Rochester, Minn., where she and her husband, Sanjeev Sethi, a pathologist at the Mayo Clinic, normally live, an inconvenient 12 hours and two subway rides from their new second home.
 It's hard to get figures on how many Americans leave Paris with a souvenir in the form of a French mortgage. But the number is ''mushrooming,'' according to Cecil Jones, president of Just France Sales, a property finders' service for those who speak English. (Incidentally, the number of agencies like his is mushrooming, too.) 
 Lured by such services, low interest rates and hopes that investing in French real estate is a smart way to diversify -- if the euro continues to strengthen -- Americans are scouring parts of Paris they barely knew five years ago. Consider the 17th, where Ms. Nautiyal, a lawyer, and Dr. Sethi found their 635-square-foot, one-bedroom, 375,000-euro (about $480,000) pied-a-terre in January. Indeed, you might consider it now, before the next wave of buyers spills over from the heavily touristed Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Arrondissements. 
 The 17th may have its funky stretches and seem a bit removed on the far Right Bank, but that's one reason it still has deals, making it the latest destination for Americans who long for a well-priced piece of Paris.
 Not long ago some of the same people might have focused on Left Bank addresses like the Rue Cler, a lively market street in the Seventh Arrondissement not far from the Eiffel Tower. Today there are so many Americans shopping on Rue Cler for their bread and French butter -- and their second homes -- that half the voices you hear have a familiar accent. 
 Ms. Nautiyal says that she sees the 17th as an antidote to ''Leftitis,'' and financially, anyway, she is right: according to Paris Real Estate Finders, a search-and-buy service, which helped steer her and her husband across the Seine, the average asking price per square foot in the Rue Cler neighborhood topped $1,050 in May, in contrast to an average asking price in the 17th of $773. And the highly diverse 17th, at least for the moment, has far fewer people from back home.
 It also has patches that are not so wonderful -- the Avenue de Clichy comes to mind -- and some that are elegant indeed. C. Randolph Fishburn, a lawyer in New York who frequently works in Paris, paid 1.1 million euros last year for a central-casting two-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment on the stately Avenue de Wagram: 1,400 renovated square feet in a 19th-century building ''across from the only 24-hour flower shop in Paris,'' he said. He added that the florist also stocks Champagne -- presumably in case of emergencies. Mr. Fishburn said he ''realized the market is undervalued and I could do this as investment and a euro hedge.'' 
 Closing costs were high but carrying costs -- property taxes and maintenance fees -- are not, and his mortgage rate is below 4 percent. That's lower than this season's high heels.
 The 17th sits on the Right Bank like a big crooked wedge of pizza, its nose under the Arc de Triomphe and its crust overlapping the beltway that rims the western edge of the city. In the late 19th century, when Paris was expanding like a souffle, the far-flung 17th was a getaway for the world-weary. Zola retreated there to write (and gave his heroine Nana, an actress turned rich-man's mistress, a 17th Arrondissement address). Impressionists lived and worked there too, recording the train stations rising to the east, their tracks strewn in fistfuls in the 17th. As developers piled in, large apartments rose up to accommodate bourgeois families and well-kept Nanas. 
 Today the arrondissement is a patchwork of neighborhoods plain, fancy and iffy. Grand avenues like Wagram emanate from the Place d'Etoile like spokes in a wheel, and just below the 17th's southern border, in the fashionable Eighth, sits the seductive Parc Monceau. At the eastern edge is the mildly gamy Place de Clichy, to the north the villagelike area called Batignolles. Hidden throughout are quiet streets, green spaces and bargains.

The Scene
 An infusion of young families is adding street life to some areas, and there's a pleasant hum around the Place des Ternes, said Francois Thomazeau, co-author of ''The Authentic Bistros of Paris'' (The Little Bookroom). ''It's -- well, not trendy,'' he said of the 17th, ''but interesting.'' 
 Think of it as the French equivalent of Murray Hill. But with more places to pause: the Square des Batignolles, for its benches, and bakeries like Laurent Connan (38, rue des Batignolles) and Franck Perotti (11, rue Flaubert), for their baguettes. 
 ''It is a very community-oriented place,'' said Janet Rotner, who lives with her husband, Philip, a lawyer, in Chicago and found their 17th Arrondissement apartment in a classified ad in Le Figaro six years ago. During visits, ''we go to the markets, we do some cooking, we bring home food from the traiteur,'' she said, evoking a common fantasy among those who hole up in tiny hotel rooms and are forced to eat out three times a day. 
 One sign of the arrondissement's health is its concentration of baby carriages and renovation construction cranes, said Darrell Halverson, who runs Paris Real Estate Finders with his wife, Stephanie Freedman. Favorite hunting grounds include the area around the Square des Batignolles, ''where the streets are narrower and you have the feeling of being in a village, anchored by the park,'' Mr. Halverson said.

Pros
 The 17th is calmer and less expensive than tourist-filled areas like the Marais and the fashionable Eighth. The Villiers Metro stop is served by two major lines, a big plus. Lively outdoor markets spring up at the Place de Levis and on the Rue Poncelet and the Boulevard des Batignolles.
 Parisian co-ops generally do not subject buyers to time-consuming scrutiny, and they generally tolerate the comings and goings of strangers, should one decide to make an apartment available to friends or to renters. 

Cons
 It's easy to fall under the sway of the city and its boosters, some of whom flog Parisian properties as if they were a no-risk investment. The market is cooling off slightly and the euro, now trading at $1.29, could get stronger -- or weaker. Despite the assurances of some property agents, not all absentee owners have luck finding tourists to rent their apartments by the week, especially in the 17th. Carrying costs can be reasonable but inheritance taxes are high: some Americans arrange to have an heir's name on the deed. 
 The French do not have multiple listings, and many apartments are sold by owners, often through classified ads. Bargains go quickly. Sellers often take their kitchen appliances with them, a French custom, and long-distance renovations can be awkward. 
 The Batignolles area is a hike from stations served by a single line. Taxis can be hard to flag after midnight.

The Real Estate Market
 Parisians, like New Yorkers, are enjoying a boom (or bulle, as some French economists say), zealously tracking prices with the help of a trade group, the Society of Notaires, which gives square-meter sales prices in dozens of neighborhoods in racing-form style. For the 12 months ending in December 2005, prices were up 11.4 percent over 2004 around the Place des Ternes, and 16.7 percent around Batignolles. 
 Americans often turn to bilingual services like Paris Real Estate Finders (www.parisrealestatefinders.com), which not only sift through the offerings but also help buyers find the requisite notaire, or lawyer, line up a mortgage and survive a French closing. Paris Real Estate Finders scours the classifieds and other sources to find listings placed by owners and real estate agents and charges its clients a percentage of the purchase price. 
 Just France (www.justfrancesales.com), based in Berwyn, Pa., does this without charging a fee (it collects from the listing agent), and it also helps buyers rent out their apartments to tourists. French-owned services include My Home in Paris (www.myhomeinparis.com), and My Flat in Paris (www.myflatinparis.com), which sells apartments as investments and leases them back for three years for use as corporate rentals. 
 Paris Real Estate Finders's advantage is its constantly updated database, which is cross-indexed in multiple ways and has hundreds of listings throughout the city, many in the 17th. Clients fill out a short questionnaire (walk-up or elevator? what price range?) and while still in the United States receive listings that meet their criteria. The system saves time for all involved: clients like Mr. Fishburn and Ms. Nautiyal snap up the first apartments they see. 
 Mr. Halverson, who helpfully translates square meters and euros into terms Americans can understand, has calculated that in 2005 buyers paid an average of $726 a square foot in the 17th, in contrast to $976 in the Sixth.
 The most expensive arrondissement in 2005 was the Seventh, at $992 a square foot, he said, and this spring the average asking price in the Seventh's select Gros Caillou quartier is, as noted around Rue Cler, even higher.
 Once you get above $1,000, he said, you may as well buy in New York.
 Ms. Nautiyal, in Minnesota, said she and her husband had visited Paris together only once before they made the leap. They bought their apartment on his second trip to Paris (she had been there several times before).
 ''It was a big risk and a crazy decision,'' she acknowledged. But it was in Paris, she explained, away from their busy everyday lives, that they realized how much ''we enjoy walking and talking, which we don't have a chance to do most of the time.'' 
 ''We couldn't bear to leave the place,'' she said. And so if all goes as planned, she said, they will be back again in Paris in August. 

LAY OF THE LAND

POPULATION -- 161,138 in the 17th Arrondissement.

SIZE -- 2.2 square miles.

WHO'S BUYING -- Young French families; middle-aged Americans.

GETTING THERE -- Metro stops include Rome on the No. 2 line, Place de Clichy on the Nos. 2 and 13 lines and Villiers on the Nos. 2 and 3 lines; RER trains stop at Charles de Gaulle-Etoile. It's best, of course, to see the area on foot or in a bus. Several bus lines serve the 17th; hotels have details.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- Consider renting an apartment, ideally near one of the open-air markets, from an American who owns a place in the 17th Arrondissement. Just France (610-407-9633, www.justfrance.com) rents one luxury apartment in the 17th. Other services and individual owners are easy to find on the Web. The Flaubert Hotel (19, rue Rennequin, 33-1-46-22-44-35; www.hotelflaubert.com), has doubles from 111 euros. The Hotel Tilsitt Etoile(23, rue Brey, 33-1-43-80-39-71; www.tilsitt.com) has doubles from 115 euros. If you want a dinner that's an occasion, try Guy Savoy's Michelin-starred restaurant (18, rue Troyon; 33-1-43-80-40-61).

THREE FOR SALE
Information on properties was supplied by the listing companies.

WHAT -- One-bedroom fourth-floor walkup
HOW MUCH -- 399,000 euros ($501,037)

This 707-square-foot apartment in a 1930's red-brick building near the Villiers Metro stop has oak floors, nine-foot ceilings and one bathroom. Buyers' representative: Paris Real Estate Finders, 33-1-53-21-98-44; www.parisrealestatefinders.com.

WHAT -- One-bedroom apartment
HOW MUCH -- 600,000 euros ($770,826)

This apartment has 796 square feet (980 square feet including some space with a low ceiling) on the ground and first floors, overlooking a courtyard in a stone carriage house on the Rue de Prony between the Pereire Metro stop and the Parc Monceau. It has an open kitchen and one bathroom. Agent: Just France Sales, 610-407-4133; www.justfrancesales.com.

WHAT -- Four-bedroom apartment
HOW MUCH -- 1,706,000 euros ($2,191,716)

Situated on the seventh floor of a 19th-century building (with an elevator) on the Boulevard Berthier, near the Porte de Champerret Metro stop, this 1,937-square-foot apartment has a balcony with views in three directions, three bathrooms, a modern kitchen with appliances and basement storage. Agent: Just France Sales, 610-407-4133; www.justfrancesales.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: RAW MATERIALS -- A vegetable market on the Rue Poncelet near the Place des Ternes in the 17th Arrondissement on the far Right Bank, where Americans are finding attractive properties at attractive prices.
HIGH WINDOWS -- A balcony on the Rue Nollet in Batignolles. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
URBAN GREENERY -- The tranquil Parc Monceau, which is on the edge of the 17th Arrondissement. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)
CHICAGOANS -- The Rotners' apartment. (Photo by Just France)
 ALOFT -- Deviyani Nautiyal and son, Amit, at the Eiffel Tower. (Photo by Sanjeev Sethi)(pg. F5)Map of Paris, France highlighting points of interest. (pg. F5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%) Housing; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (56%)

PERSON: Deborah Baldwin

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (56%) MINNESOTA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%) Paris (France); France

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



468 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Trusting Bosses Not to Cheat

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE effort to roll back the protections of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is under way, and the attack on regulation may be greater than could have been imagined four years ago, when the law was passed by overwhelming majorities. 
 Those seeking change say regulations are running up costs and driving down stock prices, while forcing companies to leave American markets. The only beneficiaries, to hear them tell it, are accounting firms. 
''External audits are totally redundant,'' said Representative Tom Feeney, who has taken the lead in efforts to roll back Sarbanes-Oxley, speaking at a Congressional hearing this week. Since corporate officials now certify the reports, he says, additional validation wastes money.
 The threat of an audit would be more than enough, he said, noting that he had never been audited by the Internal Revenue Service, but knew an audit was possible and did not cheat on his taxes. He suggested that a few companies could be chosen each year to face audits, with the rest avoiding the needless expense.
 Mr. Feeney, a Florida Republican, is the chief House sponsor of a bill to exempt the vast majority of companies from having their internal controls reviewed by auditors. A witness at the hearing, Mallory Factor, would like to go much further. The Free Enterprise Fund, which he heads, has filed a suit seeking to have the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which was created as a result of Sarbanes-Oxley, declared unconstitutional.
 ''Sarbanes-Oxley had a trillion-dollar negative impact on the U.S. economy,'' he told the hearing, citing research by Ivy Zhang, an assistant professor of accounting at the University of Minnesota. 
 Ms. Zhang did estimate that consideration of the law cost shareholders almost that much. But now she has backed down. The latest version of her paper, she told me, indicates a far smaller effect, although she declined to put a number on it.
 Still, a few hundred billion is a lot. But to me, her argument seems a little disingenuous: if the market went down when Sarbanes-Oxley was being considered, that was the cause. If it went up, something else happened.
 Consider the day the House-Senate conference committee reached agreement on the law, with Republicans backing down from efforts -- reaffirmed the previous evening -- to weaken some provisions. The market soared that day, but she figures that is irrelevant because everyone knew a tough bill would pass.
 But she notes that the market opened down slightly -- and attributes that to the arrests that morning of executives from Adelphia, the cable company.
 How does she deal with the fact that the market bottomed in the fall of 2002, about the time efforts to enforce Sarbanes-Oxley got under way, and has had a sustained rise since? That is probably irrelevant, she told me, since the market would have already discounted the effects of the law, and whatever happened later was caused by something else.
 Explaining market moves is not so easy, and her paper would be unworthy of much attention but for its use by opponents of regulation.
 Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, requiring audits of internal controls, has cost more than anticipated. That could mean internal controls were in bad shape, or it could indicate that auditors are doing too much work. Both are probably correct.
 Mark Olson, the new chairman of the accounting oversight board, needs to determine quickly if more needs to be done to avoid excessive auditing while protecting investors.
 Instead, opponents of Sarbanes-Oxley see an opportunity to throw out other investor protections.
 Perhaps their motto could be: Trust. It costs too much to verify.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows bankruptcies since the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (91%); AUDITS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); TAX AUDITS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); LITIGATION (75%); TAX FRAUD (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); WITNESSES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: TOM FEENEY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



469 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: In an Overhaul, Allianz and Its Dresdner Bank to Reduce Jobs in Germany

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 22 

 BODY:
Allianz, the insurance giant, announced on Thursday that it would lay off 7,480 employees, about 4 percent of its worldwide work force, as part of an overhaul aimed at raising profitability. 
 The reductions, which include 5,000 at Allianz operations and 2,480 at its Dresdner Bank subsidiary, will streamline the company's myriad insurance operations and, the company hopes, promote closer cooperation between its various banking businesses. Almost all of the layoffs will be in Germany.
 ''Today we are able to do this from a position of strength,'' the chief executive of Allianz, Michael Diekmann, said. ''Anyone who puts off essential decisions until some distant point in time will find themselves coming under far greater pressure in the future and then will be forced to take far more drastic steps.''
 Allianz said that the job cuts would save 600 million euros ($757 million) by 2008, while the reductions at Dresdner Bank would reduce costs by 250 million euros ($315 million).
 At Dresdner, nearly 2,500 employees who process loans and provide administrative support will be laid off, the chief executive, Herbert Walter, said. Roughly 300 positions will be lost at its investment banking division, including at its offices in London and New York.
 The bank also announced Thursday that it was shortening the name of its Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein investment banking operation to Dresdner Kleinwort. 
 The Wasserstein name was the legacy of its purchase of Wasserstein Perella, the American investment bank, in 2000.
 The layoffs are another dose of reality for Dresdner Bank, which Allianz purchased in 2001 for 23 billion euros . Allianz had gambled that it could use the bank's retail network to sell insurance and retirement savings products. It also wagered that Allianz insurance agents could sell banking services. 
 But a recession in Germany forced Allianz to suspend much of that plan in favor of reducing costs through layoffs. In the end, 16,000 job cuts allowed the bank to break even. Thursday's announcement made clear that costs are not yet under control, analysts said.
 ''They have not found new possibilities for synergies; otherwise they would not have to resort to cost reductions,'' said Lucio di Geronimo, an analyst with HVB Group in Munich. 
 Allianz itself earned a profit of 4.5 billion euros ($5.7 billion) in 2005, feeding the doubt among the company's employees that a round of job cuts was truly necessary, said Uwe Foullong, a senior official with the ver.di services union.
 Mr. Walter disclosed a strategy to raise income through closer cooperation between its units that handle different banking chores for retail and corporate clients, and by working with Allianz insurance agents, an approach that he said would raise income by 350 million euros ($442 million) by 2008. 
 Mindful that financial markets are skeptical that complex management plans can deliver concrete results, Mr. Walter said Dresdner had spent most of the last eight months focusing on the details.
 ''What we have here is a thoroughly thought-out plan,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EURO (88%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALLIANZ SE (96%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (93%); WASSERSTEIN PERELLA & CO (66%); UNICREDIT BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (96%); ALV (BIT) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (93%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DIEKMANN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



470 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Fear of Higher Interest Rate 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as investors bet that the Federal Reserve would keep raising interest rates even as economic growth shows signs of slowing.
 Demand for stocks fell as a report from the Conference Board showed that the Index of Leading Economic Indicators had slipped 0.6 percent in May. 
''Investors are just very uncertain about the economy and the Fed,'' said John Forelli, senior vice president at Independence Investment in Boston. ''Selling will be concentrated on companies very vulnerable to economic cycles and consumer spending, such as retailers, materials and tech shares.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 60.35 points, or 0.54 percent, to 11,019.11. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 6.60 points, or 0.53 percent, to 1,245.60. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 18.22 points, or 0.85 percent, to 2,122.98.
 Shares of medical technology companies slid after a report in The Wall Street Journal said that safety concerns had led some hospitals to reduce their use of drug-coated stents, which keep open the arteries of heart patients. Johnson & Johnson's stock was among the biggest drags on the Dow and the S.& .P 500, falling 61 cents, to $61.18. Shares of Boston Scientific fell 50 cents, to $18.61.
 Bed Bath & Beyond, the nation's largest home furnishings retailer, was among the leading decliners on the Nasdaq after Bear Stearns downgraded the stock, citing lower-than-expected earnings. Shares of Bed Bath & Beyond fell $2.21, to $34.71.
 Bear Stearns also cut the price target for shares of Jabil Circuit, an electronics maker, to $35, from $50. Shares of the company, which reduced a profit forecast on Wednesday, fell 69 cents, to $24.79.
 The heaviest weight on both the Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500 was the stock of Qualcomm, which fell $2.82, to $41.38. Nokia, the world's biggest mobile phone maker, said it would stop making phones based on C.D.M.A., a cellphone standard developed by Qualcomm.
 Trading was moderate on the New York Stock Exchange, with about 1.46 billion shares changing hands, below last year's daily average of 1.61 billion. On the Nasdaq, about 1.69 billion shares traded, below last year's daily average of 1.80 billion.
 Declining stocks outnumbered advancing ones by a ratio of about two to one on the New York Stock Exchange and by 17 to 12 on the Nasdaq.
 The dollar increased to a two-month high against the yen and rallied across the board as mounting expectations of higher United States interest rates lured investors away from emerging market currencies.
 Treasury prices fell on expectations of higher rates. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32 to 99 11/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 5.21 percent, from 5.15 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since March, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (88%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (87%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); BOND MARKETS (65%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (54%); QUALCOMM INC (53%); JABIL CIRCUIT INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (68%); BSX (NYSE) (55%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (54%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%); JBL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (54%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (54%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3672 PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



471 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Many Bidders Want Assets Of a Telecom In Hong Kong

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, June 22 

 BODY:
The bidding war over the assets of PCCW, Hong Kong's largest telecommunications company, is taking on a new twist. 
 After the technology bubble burst in 2001, no one seemed to want PCCW. Shares of the company collapsed, wiping out billions of dollars in value and making PCCW's $28 billion acquisition of the Hong Kong company Cable and Wireless in 2000 -- one of the biggest corporate takeovers ever in Asia -- into a penny stock corporation.
But now, for reasons that analysts who cover the telecom business here say they cannot fathom, everyone seems to want to acquire the major telecom assets of PCCW, though not the company itself. 
 Last Friday, Macquarie Bank of Australia made an unsolicited bid. Then Tuesday, TPG-Newbridge, an affiliate of the Texas Pacific Group, a private equity firm in the United States, placed a counterbid that some say was as high as $7 billion.
 Now, people close to the negotiations say several other private equity firms are circling PCCW and preparing their own counterbids. Shares of PCCW, which closed on Friday at 4.80 Hong Kong dollars (61 cents), have been mostly suspended from trading in Hong Kong since Monday. They traded briefly Thursday, rallying 10 percent, before trading was again suspended. [Trading resumed on Friday in Hong Kong.] 
 China Netcom invested about $1 billion for a 20 percent stake in PCCW in early 2005. Now PCCW's second-largest shareholder, the China Networking Communications Group, is apparently not so happy with the bidding war.
 The reason seems to turn on why foreign companies want to buy just the assets, not the company itself. PCCW and China Netcom apparently signed an agreement in 2005 that forbids the sale of PCCW without the approval of China Netcom but does not forbid the sale of assets.
 The agreement is in some dispute, people close to the PCCW negotiations say. Some analysts said they thought that China Netcom might have the right to block an asset sale. 
 China Netcom released a statement this week signaling its opposition to any deal: ''The possible buyout might cause serious uncertainties to PCCW,'' it said. 
 People involved in the bidding process for PCCW's assets say China Netcom is in a difficult position. If the company does nothing, it risks losing its stake in some of Hong Kong's key telecom assets. 
 But if it makes a counterbid, that could be seen as an unfriendly move by the Chinese government to seize important communication assets in Hong Kong, which still operates largely independent of China.
 ''There are a lot of tricky terms in their agreement,'' said Judy Zhang, a telecom analyst at Sun Hung Kai Financial Services in Hong Kong. 
 What makes the story particularly intriguing are the players. The man at the center of the bidding war is Richard Li, the chairman of PCCW and the son of the Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing. Mr. Li, 39, founded PCCW and made the blockbuster deal in 2000 to acquire Hong Kong's dominant fixed-line telephone company, Cable and Wireless promising to transform the company into a media giant. 
 Another intriguing piece is the role of TPG-Newbridge, which has been negotiating for months to acquire a sizable stake in Mr. Li's company Pacific Century Regional Developments, which controls PCCW. TPG-Newbridge has taken stakes in Lenovo and other Asian telecom firms and was hoping to move in to privatize Pacific Century and help revamp PCCW's telecom assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); APPROVALS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PCCW LTD (92%); SUN HUNG KAI & CO LTD (58%); MACQUARIE BANK LTD (56%); TPG CAPITAL LP (56%)

TICKER: 0008 (HKSE) (92%); 0086 (HKSE) (58%); MBL (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



472 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 15832 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: June 23 - June 29

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the Northeast this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'THE BUSY WORLD IS HUSHED' Opens on Sunday. A minister played by Jill Clayburgh finds herself at odds with her estranged, wayward son in this new play by Keith Bunin (''The Credeaux Canvas''). Mark Brokaw directs (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'MACBETH' Opens on Wednesday. First at the Public in the park this year will be Moises Kaufman's production of ''the Scottish play,'' starring Liev Schreiber, who went unto the breach at the Delacorte Theater in 2003 in ''Henry V'' (2:25). Delacorte Theater, Central Park West and 81st Street, (212) 539-8750.

'PIG FARM' Opens on Tuesday. The Roundabout Theater reunites part of the artistic team from ''Urinetown'' -- the playwright Greg Kotis and the director John Rando -- for this play about a couple struggling to hold onto their herd of pigs. Denis O'Hare stars (2:15). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'SCHOOL OF THE AMERICAS' In previews. Opens on July 6. Based on historical fact, Jose Rivera's new play is about two days that Che Guevera spent trapped in a one-room schoolhouse. A co-production with the Labyrinth Theater company. John Ortiz and Patricia Velasquez star. (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'SECRETS' Opens on Sunday. Gerald Zipper's play takes place over the course of a dinner party that turns sour and vicious, threatening several long marriages. Directed by Ted Mornel. (1:30). Theater at St. Luke's, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.

'SHAKESPEARE IS DEAD' In previews; opens on Wednesday. Two parents, a pair of artists, re-examine their seven-year-old relationship after the accidental death of their child in this play by Orran Farmer, directed by Chris Chaberski (1:00). Paradise Factory, 64 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444.

Broadway

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' (Tony Award, Special Theatrical Event 2006) This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants. Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200.(Ben Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' The arrival of Jonathan Pryce and his eloquent eyebrows automatically makes this the season's most improved musical. With Mr. Pryce (who replaces the admirable but uneasy John Lithgow) playing the silken swindler to Norbert Leo Butz's vulgar grifter, it's as if a mismatched entry in a three-legged race had become an Olympic figure-skating pair (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, Best Book of a Musical and Best Original Score 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920's stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, ''The Drowsy Chaperone'' has theatergoers responding as if they were withering house plants, finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the eager, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

*'FAITH HEALER' In the title role of Brian Friel's great play, Ralph Fiennes paints a portrait of the artist as dreamer and destroyer that feels both as old as folklore and so fresh that it might be painted in wet blood. Also starring Cherry Jones and the superb Ian McDiarmid, this mesmerizing series of monologues has been directed with poetic starkness by Jonathan Kent (2:35). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE HISTORY BOYS' (Tony Awards, Best Play and Best Direction of a Play, 2006) Madly enjoyable. Alan Bennett's play about a battle for the hearts and minds of a group of university-bound students, imported with the original British cast from the National Theater, moves with a breezy narrative swagger that transcends cultural barriers. Directed by Nicholas Hytner, with a perfectly oiled ensemble led by the superb Richard Griffiths and Stephen Campbell Moore as schoolmasters with opposing views of history and education (2:40). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HOT FEET' A dancing encyclopedia of cliches set to the music of Earth, Wind and Fire. Numbing (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)

'JERSEY BOYS' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2006) From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But it is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

*'SHINING CITY' Quiet, haunting and absolutely glorious. Conor McPherson's impeccably assembled ghost story about being alone in the crowded city of Dublin has been brought to American shores with a first-rate cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Oliver Platt, Martha Plimpton and Peter Scanavino), directed by Robert Falls (1:45). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' (Tony Award, Best Direction of a Musical 2006) Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a super-deluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE WEDDING SINGER' An assembly-kit musical that might as well be called ''That 80's Show,'' this stage version of the 1998 film is all winks and nods and quotations from the era of big hair and junk bonds. The cast members, who include Stephen Lynch and Laura Benanti, are personable enough, which is not the same as saying they have personalities (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'ARABIAN NIGHT' A blonde in a German apartment building sleeps too much; the super takes an unexpected trip to the desert; and a peeping Tom is properly punished in this stylish comedy whose title turns out to make perfect sense (1:05). The East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200. (Anita Gates)

'BURLEIGH GRIME$' A feeble-witted comedy by Roger Kirby about dirty dealings on Wall Street, featuring a pair of skilled actors known for recent television work -- Wendie Malick of ''Just Shoot Me'' and Mark Moses of ''Desperate Housewives'' -- and incidental music by David Yazbek, who wrote the score for Broadway's ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.'' These putative assets are painfully ill served by Mr. Kirby's play, which is long on ludicrous plot and short on fresh humor. (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'CRAZY FOR THE DOG' Christopher Boal's effective family melodrama about a brother, a sister, a wife and a boyfriend caught in a web of recrimination and confession, touched off by the kidnapping of a shih tzu (2:00). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, at Bond Street, East Village, (212) 677-0060, Ext. 16. (George Hunka)

'ELVIS AND JULIET' This opposites-collide tale by Mary Willard and starring her husband, the television actor Fred Willard, looks like community theater and is just as unoriginal. The title characters are young lovers, he the son of an Elvis impersonator, she the daughter of overeducated snobs. Fred dons an Elvis suit, but it's not enough (2:15). Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-4444. (Neil Genzlinger)

'THE FIELD' John B. Keane's portrait of rural life in Ireland in the mid-20th century, both sorrowful and censorious. This sturdy new production, directed by Ciaran O'Reilly, features Marty Maguire as Bull McCabe, a tough farmer who will stop at nothing to preserve his right to raise his cattle on a field about to be auctioned. A little moralistic, but powerful nonetheless (2:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Isherwood)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Rodney Hicks) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's captivating performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung in the original French and with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

* 'THE MOST WONDERFUL LOVE' Blue Coyote Theater Group has a rollicking good time with this inventive tale of domestic disintegration by Matthew Freeman. Mother (Lenni Benicaso) and Father (Frank Anderson), after long years together, decide to ''unmarry,'' which isn't quite the same as divorce but just as unsettling for their already unsettled youngest child (Josephine Stewart). But that doesn't begin to convey how nutty this play is. Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa; (212) 868-4444. (Genzlinger)

'NERVE' In Adam Szymkowicz's romantic comedy, an online couple's first date is a frightening but satisfyingly comic escalation of confessions and demands (1:00). 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444.(Gates)

'NOT A GENUINE BLACK MAN' Brian Copeland's solo memoir about his African-American family moving into a white suburb in the early 1970's is an engaging, if stiltedly performed, show (1:30). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'NOTHING' A morsel of catnip for Anglophiles, flavorfully adapted by Andrea Hart from the novel by Henry Green. Simon Dutton and Sophie Ward play onetime lovers contemplating the possible marriage of their children in this comedy of manners about the string of upheavals that a romance in one generation causes in another (1:40). The 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'SANDRA BERNHARD: EVERYTHING BAD AND BEAUTIFUL' Sandra Bernhard was a proverbial rock star long before headline-making folks in even the most prosaic walks of life were being referred to as such. Her new show, a collection of songs interspersed with musings on her life and on public figures ranging from Britney Spears to Condoleezza Rice, is casual to the point of being offhand. That said, it's invigorating to be in the presence of a true original (2:00). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, at Union Square, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SATELLITES' This tough-minded, soft-hearted and very likable play by Diana Son (''Stop Kiss'') portrays a world in which traditional ethnic, social, economic and sexual boundaries have become so porous that people are never quite sure who or where they are. Sandra Oh and Kevin Carroll play a couple who move into a Brooklyn brownstone that refuses (literally) to stay still. Michael Greif directs the appropriately fluid ensemble. (1:40). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SOME GIRL(S)' A slight and sour comedy from Neil LaBute that once again puts a morally bankrupt man under the microscope and watches him squirm. The central specimen is here played by Eric McCormack, who as a thoughtless heterosexual gives much the same performance he did as a thoughtful homosexual on ''Will and Grace.'' Jo Bonney directs a cast that also includes Fran Drescher, Judy Reyes, Brooke Smith and Maura Tierney as women done wrong by the same man (1:40). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

* 'SPRING AWAKENING' German schoolboys of the 19th century frolic like rockers in this adventurous new musical adapted from the 1891 play by Frank Wedekind about sex, death and adolescence. Staged with elan by Michael Mayer, and featuring alluringly melancholy music by the pop singer-songwriter Duncan Sheik, this is a flawed but vibrant show that stretches the stage musical in new directions (2:10). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'STOPPING TRAFFIC' The actress Mary Pat Gleason's endearing one-woman show about making movies (and just getting through life) while bipolar is a play with both a message and some hearty laughs (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. (Gates)

'TEMPEST TOSSED FOOLS' This musical audience-participation children's version of ''The Tempest'' is rowdy, colorful and not all that Shakespearean. Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'THE WATER'S EDGE' In a bold surgical endeavor that recalls the experiments of the mad Dr. Frankenstein, Theresa Rebeck has tried to transplant the big, blood-engorged heart of a Greek tragedy into the slender body of a modest American comic drama. The resulting hybrid runs amok in a stylishly acted production, directed by Will Frears and starring Kate Burton and Tony Goldwyn (2:00). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

'BACK OF THE THROAT' An Arab-American playwright, Yussef El Guindi, addressing the harassment of Arab-Americans after Sept. 11? Interesting. But the play would have been even more interesting if the harassers were something other than cardboard characters out of the J. Edgar Hoover closet (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (Genzlinger)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' John Patrick Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions in the clash between the head of a parochial school and the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DRUMSTRUCK' Lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30).Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'AMERICANA ABSURDUM and THE COMPLETE LOST WORKS OF SAMUEL BECKETT ' 'The Complete Lost Works of Samuel Beckett ' consists of affectionate and hilarious short spoofs of Beckett's spare, rigorous and brooding dramas, as well as tedious segues involving mock threats of legal action against the spoofers. 'Americana Absurdum' is an interestingly glib, deeply cynical satire of stereotypical American greed, rapaciousness and narcissism whose serious purposes are unfortunately clouded by a production invested much more in style than in sense (1:45). Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closing on Sunday. (Jonathan Kalb)

'ASSISTED LOVING' This warm and witty monologue by Bob Morris, who contributes the Age of Dissonance column to the Sunday Styles section of The New York Times, is performed by the author, who chronicles his widowed father's and his own search for love in and around New York. Engaging, subtle and winning (1:10). Daryl Roth Theater, D-Lounge, 103 East 15th Street, at Union Square, (212) 239-6200; closing on Monday. (Hunka)

* 'AWAKE AND SING!' (Tony Award, Best Play Revival 2006) Dreams and disappointments, hopes and fears, encouraging words and bitter putdowns clash by day and night in Clifford Odets's turbulent comedy-drama about a Jewish family struggling to stay afloat in the 1930's. A gifted roster of performers -- including Mark Ruffalo, Lauren Ambrose, Zoe Wanamaker and Ben Gazzara -- manage to locate the dreaming centers of their characters, buried beneath layers of political sloganeering, everyday gripes or street slang. And even when the focus occasionally blurs in Bartlett Sher's ultimately moving revival, Odets's zesty dialogue is a joy to hear (2:30). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200; closing on Sunday. (Isherwood)

'CAGE LOVE' The new thriller by Christopher Denham -- star of ''Red Light Winter'' -- is a compulsively watchable, sometimes ridiculous drama about a man who becomes increasingly suspicious of his wife-to-be (1:30). Rattlestick Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444; closing on Sunday. (Zinoman)

'IN THE MATTER OF J. ROBERT OPPENHEIMER' In the title role, Thomas Jay Ryan makes morality, in its truest sense, look fashionable. This is a long but frequently gripping play of literate talk and real ideas (2:45). The Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444; closing on Tuesday. (Gates)

* 'STUFF HAPPENS' Daniel Sullivan's sharp, invigorating production of David Hare's journalistic drama about the road to war in Iraq is conducted on the modest scale of a town-hall meeting. The characters (who have names like Bush and Blair) seem less like destiny-shaping gods than the ego trippers in your office. If that means they're too close for comfort, then ''Stuff Happens'' is doing its job (2:50). The Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

'THE THREEPENNY OPERA' Presented as a long, pansexual orgy, Scott Elliot's numbing revival of the Brecht-Weill classic feels like a party where the hangover begins almost as soon as the evening does. The starry cast includes Alan Cumming (as Mac the Knife) and a Dietrich-like Cyndi Lauper, though only Jim Dale and Nellie McKay appear to have a clue as to what the show is about (2:40). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

* 'WAITING FOR GODOT' Vladimir (Wendell Pierce) and Estragon (J. Kyle Manzay) wait and wait, but in this version they're soaking wet, their desolate plot being surrounded by water. A familiar play is injected with surprises (2:00). Harlem School for the Arts, 645 St. Nicho las Avenue, near 141st Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 864-4444; closing tomorrow. (Genzlinger)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH' (PG, 96 minutes) Al Gore gives a lecture on climate change. One of the most exciting and necessary movies of the year. Seriously. (A. O. Scott)

* 'ARMY OF SHADOWS' (No rating, 140 minutes, in French) Dark as pitch and without compromise, Jean-Pierre Melville's 1969 masterpiece centers on the feats of a small band of Resistance fighters during the occupation. Brilliant, harrowing, essential viewing.(Manohla Dargis)

'bombon-EL PERRO' (No rating, 96 minutes, in Spanish) A lonely, unemployed, middle-aged man finds a glimmer of hope when he acquires a purebred show dog in this sweet, gritty neo-realist fable from Argentina. (Scott)

'THE BREAK-UP' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughn split up and share custody of a Chicago condominium. Dull and cheerless, notwithstanding a handful of funny supporting turns, notably from Judy Davis and Jason Bateman. (Scott)

'CARS' (G, 114 minutes) The latest 3D toon from Pixar just putt, putt, putts along, a shining model of technological progress and consumer safety. John Lasseter directed, and Owen Wilson provides the voice of the little red race car who learns all the right lessons from, among others, a 1951 Hudson Hornet given voice by Paul Newman. (Dargis)

'THE DA VINCI CODE' (PG-13, 148 minutes) Theology aside, ''The Da Vinci Code'' is, above all, a murder mystery. And as such, once it gets going, Ron Howard's movie has its pleasures. He and the screenwriter Akiva Goldsman have deftly rearranged some elements of the plot, unkinking a few overelaborate twists and introducing others that keep the action moving along. The movie does, however, take a while to accelerate, popping the clutch and leaving rubber on the road as it tries to establish who is who, what he's doing and why. So I certainly can't support any calls for boycotting or protesting this busy, trivial, inoffensive film. Which is not to say that I'm recommending that you go see it. (Scott)

* 'DOWN IN THE VALLEY' (R, 114 minutes) This allegorical neo-western set in the San Fernando Valley has dreams as big as the fantasies that consume its protagonist, a Stetson-wearing suburban cowboy (Edward Norton) who is not what he appears to be. How much you like it will depend on your appetite for the kind of cultural metaphors that David Jacobson flings onto the screen with a reckless abandon. (Stephen Holden)

'THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS: TOKYO DRIFT' (PG-13, 98 minutes) The ''Fast and Furious'' formula (dudes + cars + babes = $) is recycled in Tokyo, where the cars are smaller, and the clothes are kookier, but the boys are still boys. (Nathan Lee)

'GARFIELD: A TAIL OF TWO KITTIES' (PG, 80 minutes) It was the worst of times. (Dargis)

'THE LAKE HOUSE' (PG, 108 minutes) Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock, reunited 12 years after ''Speed,'' play would-be lovers separated by time and yet somehow able to communicate. The absolute preposterousness of this teary romance is inseparable from its charm, which is greater than you might expect. (Scott)

'LAND OF THE BLIND' (R, 111 minutes) Watching this simplistic Orwellian fable set in a composite Everycountry that swings politically from extreme right to extreme left is like poring over a quadruple exposure. It's a jumble of ideas and images. (Holden)

'LOVERBOY' (R, 86 minutes) This cautionary mother-child drama, directed by Kevin Bacon, is a star vehicle for his wife, Kyra Sedgwick, who plays a pathologically possessive single mother. After starting out warm and fuzzy, this tonally uncertain film stealthily pulls out the rug until you suddenly find yourself standing on a cold stone floor, barefoot and shivering. (Holden)

* 'LA MOUSTACHE' (No rating, 86 minutes, in French) Emmanuel Carriere's psychological mystery prepares you to bask in one of those sexy, bittersweet marital comedies that are a hallmark of sophisticated French cinema. Then, by degrees, it subverts those expectations to spiral down a rabbit hole of ambiguity and doubt. (Holden)

* 'NACHO LIBRE' (PG, 91 minutes) A sweet bliss-out from the writers Mike White, Jerusha Hess and Jared Hess, who also directed, that finds a glorious Jack Black as a half-Mexican, half-Scandinavian monastery cook who aches to belong to another brotherhood, that of the luchadores, or masked wrestlers. (Dargis)

'THE OMEN' (R, 110 minutes) The supremely unnecessary remake of ''The Omen,'' the 1976 horror show that, along with ''Rosemary's Baby'' and ''The Exorcist,'' plunked everyone's favorite baddie, Satan, into the Hollywood mainstream, wants to capitalize on the tabloid theology in the air. Except for a few contemporary touches (the World Trade Center in flames as a portent of Armageddon) it slavishly recycles the original. (Holden)

'OVER THE HEDGE' (PG, 83 minutes) This tale about some woodland critters threatened by their new human neighbors has the technical trappings of a worthwhile Saturday matinee, so it's too bad no one paid commensurate attention to the script. The writers, including Karey Kirkpatrick, who directed with Tim Johnson, pad the story with the usual yuks and some glop about family, but there is no poetry here and little thought. (Dargis)

* 'A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Garrison Keillor's long-running Public Radio hootenanny turns out to be the perfect vehicle for Robert Altman's fluid, chaotic humanism. The performances -- especially by Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep as a pair of singing sisters -- are so full of relaxed vitality that you almost don't notice that the film is, at heart, a wry, sober contemplation of mortality. (Scott)

'X-MEN: THE LAST STAND' (PG-13, 104 minutes) As expected, the third and presumably last film about the powerful Marvel Comics mutants who walk and often fight among us pretty much looks and plays like the first two, though perhaps with more noise and babes, and a little less glum. The credited writers here are Simon Kinberg and Zak Penn, who, like the director, Brett Ratner, are not mutant enough to fly. (Dargis)

Film Series

INDIEWIRE: UNDISCOVERED GEMS (Tuesday and Wednesday) This eight-month-long series presents film-festival features that have not found theatrical distributors. This month's movie is Arin Crumley and Susan Buice's ''Four Eyed Monsters,'' about a couple who take a new approach to romantic interactivity and truly become one person. Cinema Village, 12th Street between University Place and Fifth Avenue, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $10.75. (Anita Gates)

STANLEY KUBRICK RETROSPECTIVE (Through July 9) The Museum of the Moving Image's five-week series continues this weekend with ''Lolita'' (1962), in which James Mason plays Vladimir Nabokov's Humbert Humbert, romancing an adolescent girl, and ''Dr. Strangelove, or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb'' (1963), Kubrick's nuclear-weapons comedy starring Peter Sellers. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

KUROSAWA (Through Sept. 18) The IFC Center's series honoring Akira Kurosawa continues this weekend with ''Kagemusha'' (1980), starring Tatsuya Nakadai as a small-time thief hired to impersonate a medieval warlord. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

NEW YORK ASIAN FILM FESTIVAL (Through July 1) Subway Cinema's fifth annual festival of high-grossing and/or award-winning new movies continues at Anthology Film Archives. The weekend's films, all from 2005, include ''The Great Yokai War,'' which has been described as Takashi Miike's ''Lord of the Rings''; ''Cromartie High School,'' a Japanese spoof of juvenile delinquent movies; and ''Linda Linda Linda,'' about Japanese high school girls (and one Korean) who form a band. 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, and ImaginAsian Theater, 239 East 59th Street, (212) 371-6682; $9. (Gates)

NORDIC NOIR: CRIME DRAMAS FROM SWEDEN AND DENMARK (Through Aug. 10) The American Scandinavian Foundation is screening ''Henning Mankell's Kurt Wallander Mysteries,'' television films written by Mr. Mankell, the author of the internationally best-selling Wallander novels. In Wednesday's film, ''The African,'' a black man's body is found on a train that originated in Wallander's Swedish hometown. Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

TOMORROWLAND: CAL ARTS IN MOVING PICTURES (Through Aug. 13) The Museum of Modern Art's three-decade survey of films and videos by former students at the California Institute of the Arts continues. This weekend's features include William Jones's ''Massillon'' (1991), a gay road movie, and ''Tony Oursler: Pioneering Videos,'' which includes ''Life of Phillis'' (1979), Mr. Oursler's psychosexual soap opera. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

THE VISION THAT CHANGED CINEMA: MICHELANGELO ANTONIONI (Through Thursday) BAMcinematek's tribute to Antonioni nears its end with three films this weekend. ''Zabriskie Point'' (1970) is his view of the American 1960's counterculture, complete with campus riots. ''L'Eclisse'' (1962) is a love story with angst, starring Monica Vitti and Alain Delon. ''Red Desert'' (1964) also stars Ms. Vitti, this time as a mentally ill housewife. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AFI (Tonight) AFI gives its slithery, death-and-gloom-obsessed songs a jolt of fierce energy by reaching back to the anthemic hard-core punk of 1980's groups like Agnostic Front (as well as to 90's pop-punkers like Green Day). The recipe works: last week, on the strength of its catchy single ''Miss Murder,'' the band's new album, ''Decemberunderground'' (Interscope), went to No. 1. Also on the bill are Dillinger Escape Plan, which plays an impossibly complex kind of punk-jazz, and Nightmare of You. At 6:45, Roseland, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $25. (Ben Sisario)

ALLMAN BROTHERS, DEREK TRUCKS BAND (Tuesday) Derek Trucks, who is starting to take on a role similar to the young Eric Clapton's -- that of a phenomenally gifted, graceful blues-rock guitarist whose presence makes anything better -- does double duty here, playing with the Southern-rock granddaddies the Allman Brothers and also opening the show with his own group. At 7 p.m., Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, Wantagh, N.Y., (516) 221-1000; $20 to $65. (Sisario)

ATMOSPHERE (Monday) Atmosphere is a Minneapolis-based hip-hop group led by Slug, whose keenly written rhymes convey a gloomy sensibility more commonly associated with underground rock. With Brother Ali and Los Nativos. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $20. (Kelefa Sanneh)

BLUE CHEER (Tonight) On a few gloriously untidy albums in the late 1960's and early 70's, Blue Cheer followed the blunter edges of Jimi Hendrix's sound into a bludgeoning kind of primordial heavy metal, and played it with an un-self-conscious glee that made the band sound like cavemen discovering fire. With Soldiers of Fortune and Titan. At 9, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $15. (Sisario)

BRAZILIAN GIRLS (Tuesday) Electronica, a live rhythm section and a wildly cosmopolitan spirit meet a charismatic and unpredictable singer, Sabina Sciubba, in the Brazilian Girls. The music dips into reggae, samba, funk and house, never staying in one place long. With Gold Streets and Adam Deitch Project. Pier 54, Hudson River at 13th Street; free. (Jon Pareles)

CALEXICO (Tuesday) This collective from Tucson, centered on the guitarist and singer Joey Burns and the drummer John Convertino, elegantly mingles dry alt-country with surf guitar, mariachi and a folk-flavored psychedelia like that of the 1960's band Love. With Jason Collett, a sometime member of the Toronto indie collective Broken Social Scene, who draws inspiration from Bob Dylan and the Allman Brothers, among others. At 8 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $20. (Sisario)

DEVOTCHKA (Tomorrow) DeVotchKa, from Denver, is the most musically versatile band of the Gypsy-punk trendlet of the last few years. It does its share of wild fiddling and rug-cutting, but also plays a lot of moody, carefully textured ballads that can recall the Tindersticks. The band has a new mini-album with versions of Velvet Underground and Frank Sinatra songs, and recorded the score to a film at Sundance this year. With Norfolk & Western and the Mendoza Line. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $14. (Sisario)

ESPERS, BRIGHTBLACK MORNING LIGHT (Tonight) These two bands are part of a new wave that aims to revive the sound and the utopianism of 1960's folk. Espers, a mostly acoustic sextet from Philadelphia, plays airy English folk a la Fairport Convention, sometimes surrounding it with a foreboding drone. Brightblack Morning Light's sound is more intriguing because it's harder to place: an electric hum; warbling keyboards that evoke funk; and ecstatic, breathy chants. The songs on its new, self-titled album on Matador were written, the band has said, while living in tents in Northern California. With Mariee Souix. At 9:30, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $10 in advance, $12 at the door. (Sisario)

FEIST, JASON COLLETT, BUCK 65 (Sunday) Central Park SummerStage's annual Canada Day concert (well, close enough: the holiday is actually July 1) includes two singers whose indie-rock bona fides includes time with the great Toronto collective Broken Social Scene. Leslie Feist, a k a Feist, is a cosmopolitan chanteuse who knows how to rock a club, playing bossa nova, folk, Francoise Hardy bonbons and her specialty, the sad disco ballad; Jason Collett draws inspiration from a narrower field, including Bob Dylan and the Allman Brothers. Also on the bill is Buck 65, a raspy rapper from Nova Scotia who rhymes about the backwoods life. At 3 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; free. (Sisario)

FIERY FURNACES (Thursday) In a smart scramble of eras and attitudes, the Fiery Furnaces back flippantly surreal lyrics with blues riffs, teetering analog synthesizers, parlor piano and punky noise, coming up with a 21st-century urban skiffle. With Man Man and Standing Nudes. At 6 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111; $20. (Pareles)

DIAMANDA GALAS (Wednesday and Thursday) There are no small emotions for Diamanda Galas, whose compositions are music theater with its rawest nerves exposed. She takes up fear and rage, mourning and vengeance; her voice can reach operatic heights or slice through a room with primal moans and shrieks and sobs. At 11:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $30. (Pareles)

* JOSE GONZALEZ, JUANA MOLINA, PSAPP (Thursday) Connoisseurs of hip television soundtracks might recognize some of the music on this bill. Jose Gonzalez, an Argentinean Swede, plays haunting, austere guitar confessions with precision picking and a deadpan hush; his song ''Crosses'' was played in the soap-opera season finale of ''The OC'' this spring. Juana Molina is another whispery Argentine, whose gentle, swirling lullabies draw a listener directly into her reveries. The English duo Psapp places soft vocals over beats constructed from found sounds like splashing water, creaking floorboards and even squeaking cats, creating a kind of hyperintimate electronica; ''Grey's Anatomy'' uses one of Psapp's songs as its theme. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; sold out. (Sisario)

I-THREES (Tomorrow) The I-Threes were the great reggae backup singers of the 1970's, formed to support Bob Marley and the Wailers. The members -- Rita Marley, Bob Marley's widow; Judy Mowatt, who was already a pop star in Jamaica when the group was founded; and Marcia Griffiths -- play a rare group date at the Apollo Theater. Also on the bill is Thandiswa, a singer in the trailblazing South African kwaito group Bongo Maffin, who on her new solo album, ''Zabalaza'' (Escondida), mingles traditional xhosa rhythms with hip-hop, gospel and reggae. At 8 p.m., 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 531-5305 or (212) 307-7171; $45 to $55. (Sisario)

JOE JACKSON (Thursday) In songs like ''Is She Really Going Out With Him?'' and ''Steppin' Out'' in the late 1970's and early 80's, Joe Jackson made his reputation as a cold-eyed master of British soul, bringing a cutting new-wave minimalism to stories of lonely lovers who cry that they are ''so tired of all the darkness in our lives.'' Since then he has proved remarkably versatile, releasing, among other projects, settings of the Seven Deadly Sins and a Grammy-winning recording of his Symphony No. 1. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; sold out. (Sisario)

* JAY-Z (Sunday) Three years ago Jay-Z, the rap prince turned record executive, announced his retirement from performing, but he keeps finding ways to stay in the game: albums with R. Kelly and Linkin Park, some guest spots, a big radio-sponsored concert or two. Here he shows that he does not need any ruse but himself. He celebrates the 10th anniversary of his debut album, ''Reasonable Doubt,'' by performing it beginning to end. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171; sold out. (Sisario)

KEANE (Tonight) This British band consists of just a drummer, a singer and an awfully hard-working keyboardist, but manages to flesh out songs of yearning and self-pity with rich sonorities and sharp hooks that make you swear that there's a guitar in there somewhere. Keane has headlined Radio City Music Hall, but plays this much smaller show to promote its lush and mawkish new album, ''Under the Iron Sea'' (Island). At 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; sold out. (Sisario)

ARTHUR LEE BENEFIT (Tonight) In Los Angeles in the mid-1960's, the band Love, led by Arthur Lee, perfected a distinctly lyrical variety of psychedelia steeped in folk and garage-rock. Now 61, Mr. Lee is suffering from leukemia, and the roster of musicians at this benefit concert reveals some of his wide influence: Robert Plant, Ian Hunter, Ryan Adams, Nils Lofgren, Yo La Tengo, Garland Jeffreys and Flashy Python and the Body Snatchers, a new group featuring Alec Ounsworth of Clap Your Hands Say Yeah. At 8, Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070 or (212) 307-7171; $53.50 to $128.50. (Sisario)

LIARS (Tomorrow and Monday) The Liars are an avant-garde rock band the way all avant-garde rock bands should be: noisy, challenging and unpredictable. It began playing cold, paranoid punk-funk and has gradually moved into ever eerier and more disorienting territory, as if trying to eliminate any trace of conventional rock 'n' roll from its sound. Tomorrow the band plays with one of its stylistic ancestors, Alan Vega of the great 1970's noise-punk minimalists Suicide; tomorrow and Monday's shows also include the Apes, a chaos-loving band from Washington that always keeps one yeti-like foot in Black Sabbath stomps. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; Monday at 8 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780. Each show is $15 in advance, $16 at the door. (Sisario)

NATALIE MacMASTER AND FRIENDS (Tonight) Ms. MacMaster, a fiddler whose repertory leans from Celtic music into bluegrass, leads a small group of musicians in a celebration of the Celtic music of her homeland, the Eastern Canadian island of Cape Breton. She performs with the powerful Irish-American Susan McKeown, the fiddler Donnell Leahy (who is also Ms. MacMaster's husband), the cellist Natalie Haas and the singer Catherine Russell. At 7:30, Celebrate Brooklyn, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882; $3 suggested donation. (Sisario)

* MADONNA (Wednesday and Thursday) Part 10 (or so), in which our heroine strikes such poses as Jesus on the cross, James Brown in his cape and John Travolta in his white disco suit, all while performing dance-floor hits in new remixes and reconfigurations. Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $64.50 to $354.50. (Sisario)

AUDRA McDONALD (Thursday) Ms. McDonald sings Broadway fare with a 33-piece orchestra; her program is likely to include what she calls songs associated with the ''two Barbaras,'' Cook and Streisand. With the gospel singer Liz McComb. At 7 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; free. (Sisario)

TIM McGRAW AND FAITH HILL (Tonight and tomorrow night) The first couple of country-pop flash have recently acquired a slight and unexpected political edge -- though not much controversy -- by criticizing the government's response to Hurricane Katrina. At 8, Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $49.50 to $99.50. (Sisario)

ONE RING ZERO, LAS RUBIAS DEL NORTE, SLAVIC SOUL PARTY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Barbes, a cozy bar and cabaret in Park Slope, serves as an incubator for a group of smart and casually eclectic musicians, the type who might mingle a little Gypsy music with their norteno. Now the club has started a record label to extend its support (and brand name), and offers a showcase this weekend. One Ring Zero, tonight at 9, has set words by authors like Jonathan Lethem, Margaret Atwood and Rick Moody to kitchen-sink songs with toy piano and theremin. Las Rubias del Norte, at 10:30, play boleros, cumbias and other Latin styles, elegantly arranged for a small band and two songbird sopranos. Slavic Soul Party, tomorrow night at 10, plays a raucous mix of Eastern European music, funk and jazz. Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $8 suggested donation. (Sisario)

PANIC! AT THE DISCO, DRESDEN DOLLS (Wednesday and Thursday) Panic! at the Disco, from Las Vegas, were discovered by Pete Wentz of Fall Out Boy, who quickly signed the band to his own label, Decaydence. It's not hard to see why: the group has the slick runway look of the Killers (also from Las Vegas); the muscular, gushy emo-rock sound of Fall Out Boy; and a knack for song titles that could be Oscar Wilde epigrams, like ''The Only Difference Between Martyrdom and Suicide Is Press Coverage'' and ''Lying Is the Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off.'' The Dresden Dolls play elaborate, gender-bending cabaret-punk vamps and dress the part. At 7:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171; sold out. (Sisario)

* REFUGEE ALL STARS OF SIERRA LEONE (Tonight) These six musicians, ranging from a teenage rapper to a guitarist in his 50's, fled civil war in their homeland for a refugee camp in rural Guinea. They formed a band there four years ago, and tell their stories in songs tinged with soul and reggae. A documentary about the group, made by Zach Niles and Banker White, will be shown after its performance. At 7 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; free. (Sisario)

* BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN WITH THE SEEGER SESSIONS BAND (Tomorrow and Sunday) A hootenanny of musicians, playing banjos, accordions, fiddles and guitars, accompanies Bruce Springsteen in folk songs of work, hardscrabble survival and political anger -- the Depression-era ''How Can a Poor Man Stand Such Times and Live'' gets a Hurricane Katrina rewrite -- from his latest album, ''We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions'' (Columbia). At 7:30 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698; $46.25 to $91.75. (Sisario)

* THE STREETS, LADY SOVEREIGN (Tuesday) The best and weirdest of new British hip-hop: the Streets, a k a Mike Skinner, is a loquacious rapper whose monotonous delivery can sometimes make him sound like a robot learning to rhyme, and Lady Sovereign, a k a Louise Harman, is a teenage firecracker who is one of the most entertaining exponents of grime, a hyperactive rap-plus-techno British subgenre. At 8 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111; sold out. (Sisario)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. At 2 p.m., the Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $58, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

BLOSSOM DEARIE (Tomorrow and Sunday) To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. The songs date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Sunday at 6:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $15 minimum, or $54.50 for a dinner-and-show package. (Holden)

* Eartha Kitt (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday nights) The latest edition of an act Ms. Kitt has been performing for decades is the lightest, swiftest and funniest one to date, and that's all to the good. More than ever, the singer, now a glamorous 79, pauses to poke fun at her status as the greatest and wittiest of all singing tigresses. At 8:45, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $100. (Holden)

* JESSICA MOLASKEY (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday nights) A theater singer with jazz chops, Ms. Molaskey combines sophisticated wit, fierce intelligence and a lightly swinging voice that hovers on the keen edge between happy and sad. A hybrid of the bossa nova standard ''Desafinado'' and Billy Joel's ''Summer, Highland Falls'' performed Brazilian style, is the pinnacle of a show whose material she describes as ''limbo songs.'' At 9, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11:30, the Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $50 cover; $60 prix fixe dinner required at all 9 p.m. shows; $20 minimum at the late shows tonight and tomorrow night. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

TIM BERNE DUOS (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Berne, an adventurous alto saxophonist, has always had some of his strongest musical connections with drummers. Next week he goes head to head with two of them: the suggestive and fluid Gerald Cleaver (Wednesday) and the wry, responsive Tom Rainey (Thursday). On Wednesday at 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. On Thursday at 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Nate Chinen)

ANDY BEY (Wednesday through July 1) Intimacy is a hallmark of Mr. Bey's vocal style, which alternates between a rich baritone and a burnished falsetto. He's also a fine pianist, as he'll surely demonstrate here. At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BRAZIL NIGHTS (Tonight and tomorrow night) The superb guitarist Romero Lubambo leads two Brazilian jazz acts this weekend, and neither should be missed. Tonight it's Trio da Paz, with the bassist Nilson Matta and the drummer Duduka da Fonseca; the pianist Kenny Barron will join them as a special guest. Tomorrow the setting will be more intimate: just Mr. Lubambo and the singer Luciana Souza, as on her ''Brazilian Duos'' albums. At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $30. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

JIM BLACK'S ALAS NO AXIS (Sunday) Noise rock, along with numerous strains of music made on laptops, exerts a heavy influence on Mr. Black's music, as his new album, ''Dogs of Great Indifference'' (Winter & Winter), confirms. But tuneful lyricism and jazz improvisation also have a place in his working band, which features his drums and electronics, on the same plane as Chris Speed's tenor saxophone and clarinet, Skuli Sverrisson's electric bass and Hilmar Jensson's guitar. At 8 and 9:30 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* A SALUTE TO CACHAO: MASTER OF THE MAMBO (Tomorrow) In the 1940's Israel Lopez, known as Cachao, helped define modern Cuban music; he is the most influential Latin bassist of all time, and one of Cuban music's most important bandleaders. His signature descargas will serve as the common language of this tribute, which is well stocked with artists like the conga drummer Carlos Valdez, the trumpeter Alfredo Armenteros, the flutist Dave Valentin and the trombonist Jimmy Bosch. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35 to $85. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

BILLY CHILDS JAZZ-CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Tomorrow) Mr. Childs, an accomplished pianist, composer and producer, favors a billowy sound in his own music, which sometimes drifts perilously close to New Age. But beneath a genteel atmosphere of piano, saxophone, harp, guitar and strings lurks the action-oriented rhythm team of Scott Colley on bass and Brian Blade on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3303; $25. (Chinen)

AVISHAI COHEN BAND (Sunday) Mr. Cohen is an assertive trumpeter with a taste for modernism, and he keeps good company here: the alto saxophonist Yosvany Terry, the guitarist Lionel Loueke, the pianist Jason Lindner, the bassist Omer Avital and the drummer Daniel Freedman. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

JOHN COWHERD, JOHN PATITUCCI, BRIAN BLADE (Tuesday and Wednesday) Mr. Blade, the lithe and subtle drummer, serves as the fulcrum of this impressionistic trio, which features two of his frequent collaborators. Mr. Cowherd plays piano and writes music for Mr. Blade's Fellowship band, while Mr. Patitucci, the bassist, plays with Mr. Blade in the working band led by the saxophonist Wayne Shorter. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, near Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $20. (Chinen)

DAVE DOUGLAS GROUP (Sunday) Mr. Douglas, the trumpeter and composer, taps an aggressive improvisational vein with this assembled quartet, which features the august Henry Grimes and Andrew Cyrille on bass and drums. J. D. Allen, a probing tenor saxophonist, rounds out the ensemble. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JAMES FINN'S NDA NANAA (Thursday) On his recent album, ''Plaza de Toros'' (Clean Feed), the tenor saxophonist James Finn teased out a connection between bullfighting and free jazz, with appropriate doses of bravado and humor. Here he steps into the ring with the trombonist Steve Swell, the pianist Gordon Beeferman and the percussionist Jackson Krall. At 8 and 10 p.m., Jimmy's Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

BILL FRISELL TRIO/PETRA HADEN AND KELLY JOE PHELPS (Tonight) Rustic Americana is the prevailing atmosphere of this concert, thanks to Mr. Frisell, one of jazz's most imaginative guitarists, and to the duo of Ms. Haden, a singer, and Mr. Phelps, a guitarist and singer-songwriter. Given the overlapping histories onstage -- Mr. Frisell has recorded with both of his fellow headliners -- it should be a freewheeling evening. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, www.symphonyspace.org; $23 and $28. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

DIZZY GILLESPIE ALL-STAR BIG BAND (Through Sunday) Bebop's goateed ambassador did some of his best work with big bands, a fact that this repertory ensemble, led by his former trombonist and arranger Slide Hampton, happily exploits. The band includes other veterans of Gillespie's employ -- like the saxophonists James Moody, Frank Wess and Jimmy Heath -- as well as Roy Hargrove, the trumpeter enlisted here to fill his shoes. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

SAVION GLOVER & THE OTHERZ /ROBERT GLASPER TRIO (Tomorrow) Mr. Glover, the dynamo of rhythmic tap dance, sees himself as a jazz percussionist, and plays the part in his ensemble the Otherz. Mr. Glasper is a pianist given to silvery modern flourishes and gospel intimations, and he leads a remarkably cohesive trio with the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Damion Reid. At 7:30 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell, Ninth Street and Prospect Park West, Park Slope, Brooklyn, www.celebratebrooklyn.org; free. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

HAPPY APPLE (Sunday) This Minneapolis-based trio fashions a hardy yet elastic amalgam of indie-rock and post-bop, with doses of sardonic humor. Its sound is served equally by Michael Lewis's saxophones, Erik Fratzke's electric bass and David King's drums. At 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; cover, $12, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* HERBIE'S WORLD: HERBIE HANCOCK AND FRIENDS (Tonight) Mr. Hancock is one of jazz's most successful chameleons, in addition to being one of its finest pianists. This impressive concert gives him the opportunity to dig into fluid pianism (in duets with Gonzalo Rubalcaba); ambitiously abstract chamber improvisation (in a quartet with the tenor saxophonist Wayne Shorter, the bassist Dave Holland and the drummer Brian Blade); earthy rhythm section work (in a trio with the bassist Ron Carter and the drummer Jack DeJohnette); and deep-rooted groove (in a band with the guitarist Lionel Loueke and the bassists Matt Garrison and Marcus Miller, among others). At 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $40 to $100. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

MAT MANERI QUINTET (Thursday) Mr. Maneri has a dark, hollow tone on viola and a generous approach to collective improvisation. His ensemble consists of Joe Carton on trumpet, Matt Moran on vibraphone, John Hebert on bass and Randy Peterson on drums. At 8 and 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* WYNTON MARSALIS SEXTET/SEPTET (Through Sunday) Mr. Marsalis is a ubiquitous presence at Frederick P. Rose Hall, but he doesn't often headline at its most intimate space. Tonight and tomorrow he plays Dizzy's Club with a six-piece band culled from the ranks of his Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra; on Sunday he leads a seven-piece, comprising Wycliffe Gordon on trombone, Wes Anderson and Victor Goines on saxophones, Richard Johnson on piano, Carlos Henriquez on bass and Herlin Riley on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

MIYA MASAOKA TRIO (Tomorrow) Ms. Masaoka brings an avant-garde sensibility to the koto, a Japanese zither; she also works with a laptop and with the cellist Okkyung Lee and the pianist Sylvie Courvoisier. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* PAUL MOTIAN BAND (Tuesday through July 2) This luminous ensemble consists of two contrasting pairs of improvisers (the tenor saxophonists Mark Turner and Chris Cheek, and the guitarists Steve Cardenas and Ben Monder); a couple of stabilizers (Jacob Bro and Jerome Harris, also guitarists); a lone anchor (the bassist Ben Street); and a mastermind (Mr. Motian, on drums). The band's last ECM album was excellent; its last Village Vanguard appearance, in January, was even better. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20; $25 on Friday and Saturday, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LEWIS NASH QUINTET (Through Sunday) Mr. Nash is an engaging and subtle drummer who brings a crisp sense of swing to any setting. His ensemble consists of Jeremy Pelt on trumpet, Steve Wilson on alto and soprano saxophones, Gerald Clayton on piano and Peter Washington on bass. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $25 ($20 on Sunday), with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ARTURO O'FARRILL TRIO (Tomorrow) Mr. O'Farrill, the pianist and bandleader of Lincoln Center's Afro-Latin Jazz Orchestra, knows how to energize smaller settings; in this trio he works with Alex Blake on bass, and Jamie Affoumado on drums. At 9:15 and 10:40 p.m. and midnight, Puppets Jazz Bar, 294 Fifth Avenue, at First Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 499-2627, www.puppetsjazz.com; $5, with a two-drink minimum (Chinen)

EIVIND OPSVIK'S OVERSEAS (Wednesday) Mr. Opsvik is a Norwegian bassist and composer who carefully balances avant-gardism against a poplike lyricism, as he demonstrates here with a working band composed of Tony Malaby on tenor saxophone, Jacob Sacks on piano and Kenny Wollesen on drums. At 6:30 p.m., Scandinavia House. 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 879-9779, www.scandinaviahouse.org; cover, $7; members, $5. (Chinen)

MARIO PAVONE QUARTET (Wednesday) Mr. Pavone, a bassist and composer with an expansive worldview, leads a cadre of fellow colorists: Ron Horton on trumpet, Tony Malaby on saxophones and Gerald Cleaver on drums. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

HERLIN RILEY AND FRIENDS (Tuesday through July 2) Few contemporary jazz drummers groove as naturally as Mr. Riley, who presides here over a quartet composed of other strong musicians with ties to Wynton Marsalis: the tenor saxophonist and clarinetist Victor Goines, the pianist Eric Reed and the bassist Reginald Veal. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

BILL STEWART TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Though he is known primarily as a sideman, Mr. Stewart, a drummer, has a composer's vocabulary, as he proved with a pair of underrated Blue Note albums in the 1990's. He connects here with Larry Goldings on Hammond B-3 organ and Kevin Hayes on piano, mining a post-bop sound that owes more than a little to rhythm and blues. At 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

BUSTER WILLIAMS AND SOMETHING MORE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Williams's bass playing is the anchor but not the focal point of this chamber-jazz quintet, with his longtime rhythm-section partner Lenny White on drums; Marcus Strickland on tenor and soprano saxophone; Stefon Harris on vibraphone; and on piano either George Colligan (tonight) or Anthony Wonsey (tomorrow). At 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'THE BARBER OF SEVILLE' (Thursday) The Lake George Opera opens its season at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center with Rossini's hoary chestnut, sung in Italian with projected supertitles. Other offerings this summer include ''Pagliacci'' and Ned Rorem's ''Our Town.'' At 8 p.m., Spa Little Theater, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., (518) 587-3330; $48 to $70; $5 off for children and 65+. (Anne Midgette)

'GLORY DENIED' (Monday) The invaluable Center for Contemporary Opera, which helps living composers place their operas, either completed or in-progress works, before the public, presents a staged reading of Tom Cipullo's ''Glory Denied.'' This Vietnam-era story is based on an oral history by the journalist Tom Philpott about Col. Jim Thompson, America's longest-held prisoner of war. When Act I was presented in 2004 as part of the New York City Opera's Vox readings, Mr. Cipullo's unsentimental handling of the story was complemented by his hard-edged, neo-Romantic musical style. Though this staged reading will present the complete opera, the cast will be accompanied only by piano. At 8 p.m., the Thalia at Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $20. (Anthony Tommasini)

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Thursday) There are few cozier places to hear chamber music in New York than this floating concert hall on the Brooklyn side of the East River. Tonight the pianist Jeffrey Swann concludes the overview of Chopin he has been presenting all this month, with a program that includes the F minor Fantasy, the Sonata No. 2, the second and third Scherzos and the Ballade No. 4. Tomorrow the Amernet String Quartet takes over for a program of Shostakovich, Fredrick Kaufman and Brahms. On Sunday a more varied ensemble -- guitar, accordion, violin, piano and bass -- offers a program of Astor Piazzolla's music. And on Thursday Jeanne Mallow, a violist, and Vladimir Valjarevic, a pianist, collaborate on works by Brahms, Schumann, Rachmaninoff and William Keith Rogers. Tonight and tomorrow and Thursday nights at 7:30, Sunday at 4 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35 for all but the Sunday concert, which is $40. (Allan Kozinn)

CARAMOOR (Tomorrow and Sunday) On the shady grounds of a former estate, this Westchester summer festival begins its season with its excellent resident orchestra, the Orchestra of St. Luke's, under Peter Oundjian, in a festive selection of music: the overture to the unfinished opera ''Pope Joan'' by Caramoor's composer-in-residence this year, John Musto; Beethoven's Eighth; and the ever-popular Mendelssohn Violin Concerto, with the ever-popular Joshua Bell. On Sunday Peter Schickele presents ''P. D. Q. Bach: His Life, Legacy and Leftovers.'' Tomorrow night at 8:30, Sunday afternoon at 4:30, Venetian Theater, Caramoor, Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-1252; $40 to $92.50 tomorrow, $19 to $49 on Sunday. (Midgette)

* CONNECTICUT EARLY MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow) This annual festival offers consistently varied and enlightening programs. Tonight chamber works by Couperin are the focal points in a program of works from the court of Louis XIV. Tomorrow the superb wind ensemble Piffaro plays Spanish and Portuguese Baroque works. Tonight at 8, Mystic Arts Center, Mystic, Conn.; tomorrow at 8 p.m., Evans Hall, Connecticut College, New London, (860) 444-2419; $26 for a reserved seat, $20 general admission. (Kozinn)

FREE FOR ALL AT TOWN HALL (Sunday) The music is by the guitarist Sharon Isbin and the mezzo-soprano Susanne Mentzner, and the tickets are free. At 5 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 707-8787; tickets are available starting at noon. (Bernard Holland)

* INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF ARTS AND IDEAS (Tonight) Each June since 1996, this festival in New Haven has brought together thinkers, creators and performers from the worlds of theater, dance, art, music, literature and letters. As in past years, music is an important component of this summer's festival, which ends this weekend. Tonight two fine artists, Sarah Rothenberg, playing piano, and John Gibbons, playing harpsichord, juxtapose preludes and fugues by Bach with those by Shostakovich, whose works in this genre were directly inspired by Bach's. At 8, Sprague Memorial Hall, Yale University, 470 College Street, (203) 562-5666 or (888) 736-2663; $35. (Tommasini)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) In the spirit of its founder, the conductor Jens Nygaard, this ensemble brings together familiar works and scores from off the beaten path. Its guest this week is the violinist Anne Akiko Myers, who joins it for a program that includes the StamitzClarinet Quartet, the Rosetti Sextet and Dvorak's Quintet in G. At 8 p.m., the JCC in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 799-1259; $15. (Kozinn)

* MANNES INSTITUTE AND FESTIVAL OF CONTEMPORARY PERFORMANCE (Tonight through Thursday) Having just completed its extensive Beethoven Institute, the Mannes College of Music, the classical music division of the New School, turns its attention to new music. This festival attracts composers and performers, both renowned figures and adventurous students, for 10 days of workshops, master classes and concerts, all open to the public. Tonight the composer and pianist Frederic Rzewski, a galvanizing performer of his own ferocious works, joins the Amernet String Quartet for an all-Rzewski program. Tomorrow the pianist Wilhem Latchoumia, a new-music champion, and the percussionist Daniel Ciampolini, who spent 20 years playing in Pierre Boulez's cutting-edge ensemble, share a program. On Sunday evening the piano duo of Jean-Jacques Balet and Mayumi Kameda perform during the first half of a program that after intermission offers a memorial tribute to the composer Donald Martino, with a roster of performers participating. Tuesday's concert features the percussionist Matthew Gold, the pianist Stephen Gosling and the violinist Curtis Macomber. On Wednesday the percussionist Daniel Druckman, of the New York Philharmonic, joins the Speculum Musicae ensemble in works by Louis Andriessen, Salvatore Sciarrino, Milton Babbitt and others. On Thursday an ensemble from the institute plays works by the Moroccan-born French composer Yan Maresz. At 8 p.m., Mannes College, 150 West 85th Street, Manhattan, (212) 580-0210, Ext. 4884; concerts are $20; $10 for students; master classes and lectures are $8; a pass to all events is $150. (Tommasini)

MAVERICK CONCERTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) This concert series near Woodstock, N.Y., offers its performances in an open-backed barn that allows the sounds of nature to mingle with the music. Tomorrow the festival's director, Alexander Platt , leads the pianist Frederic Chiu and the Maverick Chamber Players in the chamber versions of Mozart's Piano Concertos Nos. 11, 12 and 13. On Sunday the American String Quartet plays Haydn's Quartet in E flat (Op. 76, No. 6), Shostakovich's Quartet No. 11 and Mozart's Quartet in F (K. 590). Tomorrow at 6 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; the Maverick Concert Hall, Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217; $20; $5 for students. (Kozinn)

MUSIC FESTIVAL OF THE HAMPTONS (Tomorrow and Sunday) A gala concert tomorrow kicks off the 11th season of this piano-loving festival that comes, this year, with a few caveats: its artistic director, Lukas Foss, is not actually taking part in any of the season's concerts (although his music will be played), and some of the tent events are listed as ''pending Town of Southampton permits.'' Permits or no, tomorrow's concert travels a colorful road from Vivaldi to Duke Ellington, with stops at Mozart, Ravel and others along the way. On Sunday afternoon the festival continues with a recital by the 12-year-old pianist and composer Drew Petersen; in the evening the director Daniel Anker will introduce his rather turgid film about the musicians of the Philadelphia Orchestra, ''Music From the Inside Out.'' Tomorrow night at 7:30 (cocktails at 6), Sunday afternoon at 3 and 7, East Hampton Studios, Wainscott, N.Y. (gala concert and Anker film), and Bellport, N.Y. (Petersen recital), (800) 644-4418; tomorrow, $75; $150 for concert and party; Sunday afternoon, $25; Sunday evening, $10; $7 for 65+. (Midgette)

MUSIC MOUNTAIN (Tonight through Sunday) String quartets are a focus of this venerable institution in northwestern Connecticut, and on Sunday the Amernet Quartet performs the second of two weekend concerts, offering Shostakovich's Third, Beethoven's Op. 132 and Mozart's Oboe Quartet in F Major, with the oboist Humbert Lucarelli. Tonight the Saint John's Chorale, a small group 15 years old, makes its debut at the festival under its director, Richard Busch. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday afternoon at 3, Gordon Hall at Music Mountain, Falls Village, Conn., (860) 824-7126; $25 at the door; $22 in advance; $12 for students. (Midgette)

NAUMBURG ORCHESTRAL CONCERTS (Tuesday) This free series in Central Park begins its 101st-anniversary season with a concert that is not, strictly speaking, orchestral. The eclectic woodwind quintet Imani Winds, which describes itself as African-American/Latino, will be joined by the pianist Andre-Michel Shub for a program with Piazzolla and Paquito D'Rivera on the one hand, and an arrangement of Ravel's ''Tombeau de Couperin'' on the other; the third and fourth hands include a Mozart wind quintet and a piece called ''Umoja'' by the group's flutist, Valerie Coleman. At 7:30 p.m., Naumburg Bandshell, Central Park, midpark at 70th Street, (718) 340-3018. (Midgette)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

* AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow; Monday through Thursday) The last three performances of Kenneth MacMillan's ''Manon'' are tonight and tomorrow, with Diana Vishneva and Vladimir Malakhov scheduled tonight. On Monday begins a weeklong run of ''Swan Lake.'' (The season continues until July 15.) Tonight and tomorrow night, and Monday through Thursday nights, at 8 p.m.; tomorrow and Wednesday at 2 p.m.; Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000 or abt.org; $23 to $163. (John Rockwell)

* BARD SUMMERSCAPE (Thursday) This summer arts festival opens on Thursday with two new dances by Donna Uchizono, performed by her company and by the guest artist Mikhail Baryshnikov, whose Hell's Kitchen arts center commissioned one piece. Through July 1. The festival runs through Aug. 20. At 8 p.m., Fisher Center, Sosnoff Theater, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. (845) 758-7900 or summerscape.bard.edu; $25 to $55. (Jennifer Dunning)

* KIMBERLY BARTOSIK (Tonight through Sunday night) Ms. Bartosik knows there is a world beyond the dance studio, which is what her new ''home in the neon heat,'' described as a meditation on fractured landscapes, addresses. Her company features current and former Merce Cunningham dancers, including Cedric Andrieux, Daniel Squire and Derry Swan. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or danspaceproject.org; $15. (Dunning)

CATALYST (Wednesday and Thursday) This Minneapolis-based dance company, making its New York debut, will perform ''Heat and Life,'' a multimedia dance about global warming by the company director Emily Johnson. At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or dtw.org; $20; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

CEDAR LAKE: FREE THURSDAYS (Thursday) This first of three free programs will feature multimedia events created by the dancers and designers of the Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet. At 6 p.m., Cedar Lake Theater, 547 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444 (Smarttix) or cedarlakedance.com. (Dunning)

CELEBRATE BROOKLYN! SAVION GLOVER & FRIENDS (Tomorrow) Mr. Glover will jam with guest dancers to music by his jazz band, The Otherz, on a program that also includes a performance by Robert Glasper's jazz trio. At 7:30 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 855-7882; suggested contribution, $3. (Dunning)

CORBINDANCES (Tonight through Sunday night) Patrick Corbin, a former dancer with the Paul Taylor Dance Company, offers the premiere of ''Bathing Jeff, Part I,'' a monologue with movement based on Mr. Corbin's experiences in the worst years of the AIDS epidemic. At 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; $25. (Jack Anderson)

Fugate/Bahiri Ballet NY (Monday through July 2) Judith Fugate, a former New York City Ballet principal dancer, and her husband, Medhi Bahiri, a former principal at Boston Ballet, formed this chamber company in 1997. Their mission is to present contemporary ballets, and the company's longevity is testament to Ms. Fugate and Mr. Bahiri's shrewd selection of choreographers who make modern, appealing work. This season offers repertory pieces by Thaddeus Davis, Stanton Welch and Toni Pimble, with new works by Francis Patrelle and John Butler. Tuesday at 7.30 p.m., Wednesday through Friday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $36. (Roslyn Sulcas)

GESTURES DANCE ENSEMBLE (Tomorrow) This preprofessional group from the Harbor Conservatory for the Performing Arts presents an evening of work by an alumnus, Darrell Grand Moultrie, who has made pieces for dance companies around the country. At 7:30 p.m., Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 427-2244; $15. (Sulcas)

NEIL GREENBERG (Tonight through Sunday) A revival of ''Not-About-AIDS-Dance,'' a commentary on life, illness and loss, originally produced in 1994, shares the program with the new ''Quartet with Three Gay Men.'' Through June 25. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday at 4 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $25; $15 for students, 65+ and artists. (Anderson)

* JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday; Wednesday and Thursday) There are usually two attractions per week in the main theaters of this bucolic, venerable festival, which runs until Aug. 27. On this opening weekend there is CND2, short for the second company of Nacho Duato's Compania Nacional de Danza from Madrid. The other attraction is a screening of the acclaimed documentary ''Ballets Russes'' on Friday. On Wednesday and Thursday the Limon Dance Company will be at the larger Ted Shawn Theater, and starting Thursday at the smaller Doris Duke Studio Theater is ASzURe & Artists, devoted to the choreography of Aszure Barton. CND2 tonight and tomorrow night at 8, and tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m.; and Limon on Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., Shawn Theater; $50. ''Ballet Russes'' tonight and ASzURe on Thursday night, Duke Theater, 8:15 p.m.; $10 for the film, $24 for ASzURe. Ten percent off all tickets for students, 65+ and children. Details of the week's free performances and exhibitions can be found at jacobspillow.org. Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413) 243-0745. (Rockwell)

STEPHEN KOPLOWITZ (Today through Sunday) ''Revealed'' seeks to alter perspectives of place, site and scale with the aid of 10 dancers and the optical device known as the camera obscura. At noon, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505 or worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Anderson)

* LA MAMA MOVES! (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) This ambitious festival includes four different programs this weekend, in two of La MaMa's honeycombed little theaters. ''Children of Ur'' (tonight) features work by nine individuals and groups, among them Karinne Keithley, David Neumann and Nicky Paraiso. ''Duets'' (tomorrow) showcases dance by five duos, and ''Dancing Divas'' (Sunday) lives up to its name with work by Pat Catterson, Ellen Fisher, Keely Garfield, Sally Gross, Deborah Jowitt, Jodi Melnick, Yvonne Meier and Vicky Shick. And ''Mavericks in Motion'' (Thursday) features dance by Jonah Bokaer, Monica Bill Barnes and Tami Stronach. Tonight at 10, tomorrow and Sunday at 5:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; $10. (Dunning)

MICHELA MARINO-LERMAN (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ms. Marino-Lerman, a 19-year-old ''Sesame Street'' alumna, and her company will examine existence, public life and education in tap dance. At 8, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736 or dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F.; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

* THE NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday) The closing weekend of the company's spring season, ending on Sunday afternoon with an all-Balanchine program of ''Symphony in C'' and ''Vienna Waltzes.'' All the programs will be conducted by Andrea Quinn, the departing music director. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, tomorrow at 2 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570 or nycballet.org; $30 to $86; student rush tickets at $12. (Rockwell)

* NOCHE FLAMENCA WITH SOLEDAD BARRIO (Tonight through Sunday; Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Barrio is a remarkable dancer, serious and impassioned, and the hit of this winter's Flamenco Gala at City Center. Her Spanish company, founded with her husband, Martin Santangelo, has settled into the intimate Theater 80 for this month and next, through July 30. Tonight and tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 5 p.m.; Theater 80, 80 St. Mark's Place, East Village, (212) 352-3101 or theatermania.com; $45. (Rockwell)

OF MOVING COLORS (Tonight and tomorrow night) The company, based in Baton Rouge, La., will perform dances by Pavel Zustiak, Ashleigh Leite, Nick Erickson and the company director, Garland Goodwin Wilson. At 8, Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200 or dnadance.org; $17. (Dunning)

OUT OF SPACE @ BRICSTUDIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) This occasional series, organized by Marya Wethers, is presented in collaboration with Danspace Project, which suggests a talent-scouting expedition might be in order. The new works on the program are by Keity Anjoure, Faye Driscoll, Will Rawls and Tamar-kali. At 8:30, BRICstudio, 57 Rockwell Place, second Floor, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 855-7882; $12; $10 for students. (Sulcas)

* PASCAL RIOULT DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Rioult, a former Martha Graham dancer, tends to give his larger-than-life themes and dances a Grahamesque heroism, this time in a program that includes ''If by Chance,'' a world premiere set to a score by Jacques Loussier, a French jazz composer, that reworks Mozart's Concerto No. 23. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800 or joyce.org; $38. (Dunning)

SITELINES 2006: DOUGLAS DUNN AND ELKE RINDFLEISCH (Today and Monday through Thursday) This free avant-garde arts festival, also produced by River to River, features Mr. Dunn and Ms. Rindfleisch in paired pieces. At 12:30 p.m., Elevated Acres, 55 Water Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 219-9401. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* American Folk Art Museum: 'WHITE ON WHITE (AND A LITTLE GRAY),' through Sept. 17. The importance of neo-Classicism to early American architecture, silver and fine furniture is not exactly news. This small, beautiful show follows its spread into more personal corners of visual culture: often exquisite, strikingly dimensional white-work bedcovers; luminously grisaille, sometimes wacky marble-dust drawings; and print-work embroidery mourning pictures. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 13. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to and settlement in the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FREDERIC CHURCH, WINSLOW HOMER AND THOMAS MORAN: TOURISM AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through Oct. 22. It turns out that the Cooper-Hewitt owns thousands of rarely seen paintings, prints and sketches by Church, Homer and Moran. Studies of the countryside, mostly, they revere unspoiled nature and record tourism, a booming industry in 19th-century America. Here they're combined with antique postcards, old Baedekers, stereoscopic photographs, playing cards with pictures of Yellowstone on them and souvenir platters, all to trace the nation's transformation from primeval wilderness to Catskills resort. The show is extremely entertaining. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400. (Michael Kimmelman)

* FRICK COLLECTION: 'VERONESE'S ALLEGORIES: VIRTUE, LOVE AND EXPLORATION IN RENAISSANCE VENICE,' through July 16. Paolo Veronese (1528-88), a superb colorist and one of the most suavely sensuous of Renaissance Venetian painters, used the age-old device of allegory to make abstract concepts visual, often by means of human or mythological figures. In this five-painting show, the first to include all of his large-scale allegories from American collections, high ideals mingle with earthy and sometimes erotic physicality, as in the painting ''Venus and Mars United by Love.'' 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Glueck)

SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ZAHA HADID: THIRTY YEARS IN ARCHITECTURE,' through Oct. 25. This exhibition, Ms. Hadid's first major retrospective in the United States, gives New Yorkers a chance to see what they've been missing. The show, in the Guggenheim's rotunda, spirals through Ms. Hadid's career, from her early enchantment with Soviet Constructivism to the sensuous and fluid cityscapes of her more recent commissions. It illuminates her capacity for bridging different worlds: traditional perspective drawing and slick computer-generated imagery; the era of utopian manifestos and the ambiguous values of the information age. (212) 423-3500. (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

* International Center of Photography: 'UNKNOWN WEEGEE,' through Aug. 27. From the 1930's through the 50's, Weegee -- real name, Arthur Fellig (1899-1968) -- was one of the best known news photographers in the country. He specialized in capturing the sensational side of urban life: crime, disaster, demimonde nightlife. Tirelessly invasive, he lived by night. For him, the city was a 24-hour emergency room, an amphetamine drip. This show of 95 pictures gives a good sense of his range and calls particular attention to his awareness of social problems related to class and race. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000. (Holland Cotter)

* METropolitan museum of art: 'GIRODET: ROMANTIC REBEL,' through Aug. 27. Hugely famous in the early 19th century, Girodet dropped down the memory chute. His ''Ossian Receiving the Ghosts of French Heroes,'' painted for Napoleon, is one of the most deranged pictures in art history. It's so unhinged that it's almost lovable, which is otherwise the last word to come to mind for an artist who, in his uptight, smarty-pants mode, could be a bore. But give the show a shot. It's sometimes brilliant, and Girodet's strangeness and fairly repellent character make him at least fascinating to contemplate and heroic in his immoderation. (212) 535-7710.(Kimmelman)

* Met: 'Treasures of Sacred Maya Kings,' through Sept. 10. ''Treasures of Sacred Maya Kings'' gets a huge gold A for truth in advertising. The treasures are plentiful, rare and splendid. A carved wood figure of kneeling shaman, arms extended, time-raked face entranced, is simply one of the greatest sculptures in the museum. And wait till you see the painted ceramic vessel known as the ''Dazzler Vase,'' with its red and green patterns like jade on fire, you'll understand its name. Much of the work has never traveled before; many objects have only recently come to light in Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras. They add up to an exhibition as a think-piece essay on how a culture saw itself in the world. (212) 535-7710. (Cotter)

* Morgan Library and Museum: 'Masterworks from the Morgan,' through Sept. 10. Almost three years after closing to build an expansion, the Morgan is back and brilliant. What's new: Renzo Piano's splendid four-story glass-and-steel court, a sort of giant solarium with see-through elevators; two good-size second-floor galleries; and a neat little strongbox of an enclosure, called the Cube, for reliquaries and altar vessels, medieval objects made with so much silver and gold that they seem to give off heat. What's not new: almost everything in this exhibition, which fills every gallery with mini-exhibitions of master drawings and musical manuscripts, as well as illuminated gospels, devotional sculptures and historical and literary autograph manuscripts from the Brontes to Bob Dylan. 225 Madison Avenue, at East 36th Street, (212) 685-0008 or www.themorgan.org. (Individual show closings can be checked by telephone or through the Web site.) (Cotter)

Museum of Arts AND Design: 'THE EAMES LOUNGE CHAIR: AN ICON OF MODERN DESIGN,' through Sept. 3 Celebrating the 50th anniversary of a chair whose combination of declarative modernist structure and sheer creature comfort was both innovative and a bit alien, this exhibition is a successful design object in its own right. It pays homage with drawings, advertising ephemera, precursors, vintage television clips, a wonderful documentary and three versions of the chair itself, enshrined, exploded and useable. 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535. (Smith)

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'DADA,' through Sept. 11 This is pretty much Dada's official survey (an oxymoron), and it makes nearly all 450 or so objects in it look elegant. That hat rack looks awfully stylish now. It's good to be reacquainted with a generation of artists who had no market to speak of and for whom society's corruption and exhaustion seemed a golden opportunity to make themselves useful. Cynical and traumatized, the Dadaists were tireless young optimists at heart. They discovered a world full of wonders, and we are, on the whole, their beneficiaries. (212) 708-9400. (Kimmelman)

New York Public Library: 'FRENCH BOOK ART/LIVRES D'ARTISTES: ARTISTS AND POETS IN DIALOGUE,' through Aug. 18. Organized with the Bibliotheque Litteraire Jacques Doucet in Paris, this lavish exhibition surveys some of the experimental ferment brought on by the combination of free verse, visionary publishers and the high rate of talent among French artists and poets, especially in the early years of the 20th century. New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089. (Smith)

NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'BEST OF FRIENDS: BUCKMINSTER FULLER AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through Oct. 15. Great, lasting friendships are rare, but friendships that enlarge the spirit through ideas, ideals and new insights are in a class by themselves. Over a stretch of more than 50 years the sculptor Isamu Noguchi and the visionary designer R. Buckminster Fuller enjoyed such a friendship, which led to aesthetic and practical achievements that left their mark. The course of their varied collaborations is traced in this exhibition, which includes models, sculptures, drawings, photographs and films. 9-01 33rd Road, between Vernon Boulevard and 10th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088. (Glueck)

* The Studio Museum In harlem: 'Energy/Experimentation: Black Artists and Abstraction, 1964-1980,' through July 2. During one of the most radical periods in 20th-century American politics, the Black Power era, a group of African-American artists was working in one of the most radical forms of 20th-century art: abstraction. This show is stylishly installed. (One gallery bursts with color, another has a cool platinum shimmer.) The 15 artists are intensely individualistic and part of an important history. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Cotter)

Galleries: Uptown

* WANGECHI MUTU: EXHUMING GLUTTONY: A LOVER'S REQUIEM In tandem with this artist's Chelsea debut, an over-the-top installation made with the British architect David Adjaye includes fur-trimmed wine bottles dripping wine, animal skins and an enormous raw wood table. Conflating morgue, tannery and banquet hall, it brings the excess and color of paintings on Mylar into real space, but its main message seems to be: I built this because I can. Salon 94, 12 East 94th Street, (646) 672-9212, through July 7. (Smith)

Galleries: SoHo

Philippe Decrauzat: 'Plate 28' A conceptually perplexing but visually striking installation by a young Swiss artist includes a black and white grid painted on the walls; a sculpture based on a Russian Constructivist design, and a grainy, flickering black-and-white film showing glimpses of ominous landscapes from ''The Twilight Zone.'' Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, at Broome Street, (212) 925-2035, through July 15. (Ken Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

* 'An Ongoing Low-Grade Mystery' Organized by the curator Bob Nickas, this excellent group show includes works in many different mediums and styles, related in that they are all predominantly red. Donald Judd, Sherrie Levine, Jim Drain, Wolfgang Tillmans and Dan Walsh are among more than 30 artists included. Paula Cooper, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, through June 23. (Johnson)

Jackie Gendel: 'Portraits' With seemingly off-hand painterly verve, smudgy colors and a sweet sense of humor, Ms. Gendel creates smart and sensuous, semi-abstract riffs on Modernist portraiture. Jeff Bailey, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 989-0156, through July 1. (Johnson)

* NEW VIDEO, NEW EUROPE A selection of 49 tapes by 40 artists from 16 Eastern European countries, several of which did not exist before the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989, presents bits and pieces of another world. Revolution, landmines, economic hardship and disappearing ways of life alternate with wit and artistic originality. The whole forms an inadvertent documentary, but many of the parts are well worth attention. The Kitchen, 512 East 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, through June 30. (Smith)

Last Chance

* 'Artists Against the State: Perestroika Revisited' Satiric and subversive Pop and Conceptualist works by more than 50 artists working in the Soviet Union during the years leading up to the end of Communism. Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 226-3232, closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* Loretta Lux By means of subtle digital manipulations, Ms. Lux turns color photographs of children in empty rooms into hallucinatory portraits of angelic beings with slightly oversized heads; big, soulful eyes; and beautiful clothes. Yossi Milo, 525 West 25th Street, (212) 414-0370, closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* 'The Rest is Silence: James Lee Byars' New York only really started to wake up to James Lee Byars (1932-1997) when he died. This three-gallery survey has some early work but focuses on the large-scale sculptures of his later years. It is tempting to fit him into existing slots: performance art, Minimalism, Conceptualism, whatever. But his extravagance and his privacy combine to keep him outside the fold, as do his philosophical concerns: Big Ideas, or rather Big Questions, about perfection, death and eternity. Perry Rubenstein Gallery, 526 West 24th Street, (212) 627-8000; 534 West 24th Street and 527 West 23rd Street; Mary Boone Gallery, 541 West 24th Street and 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 752-2929); Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623. All close tomorrow.(Cotter)

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An art entry in the Listings pages of Weekend yesterday about ''Artists Against the State: Perestroika Revisited,'' at the Ronald Feldman gallery in Soho, included an outdated closing date. It is July 28, not today.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES -- Jack Black, left, and Hector Jimenez belong to a brotherhood of masked wrestlers in Jared Hess's ''Nacho Libre,'' Page 21. (Photo by Daniel Daza/Paramount Pictures)
ART -- A censer lid depicting a fifth-century Copan ruler is on view in ''Treasures of Sacred Maya Kings'' at the Metropolitan Museum, Page 23. (Photo by Metropolitan Museum of Art)
 POP -- The Dresden Dolls, Amanda Palmer and Brian Viglione, bring their gender-bending cabaret punk to the Nokia Theater, Page 22. (Photo by Troy Ferguson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WRITERS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); HOG & PIG FARMING (71%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); MARRIAGE (65%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



473 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Art in Review; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Rudy Burckhardt

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:

New York Paintings
Tibor de Nagy Gallery
724 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street
Manhattan
Through July 28
 Rudy Burckhardt (1914-99) was best known for his photography and experimental films, but he also painted throughout his career. The New York cityscapes in this enchanting exhibition date from 1947 to 1995. 
Like Fairfield Porter and Alex Katz, Burckhardt appreciated Modernist abstraction, but believed that representational painting could still be exciting, and like them he painted ordinary reality with an unfussy directness. His neatly constructed pictures of Manhattan, mostly views of other buildings from high windows or rooftops, look almost like the works of an industrious Sunday painter. But relationships between complexity and unity, light and structure, and surface patterns and expansive spaces betray considerable formal sophistication. 
 Burckhardt's paintings of the city did not change much over the years. With their straighter lines, smoother surfaces and more subtly modulated color and light, the ones from the 40's have a Surrealistic feeling. From the 50's on, there is a persistent tension between the slightly brushy touch and a determination to register the visual facts. Water towers, skylights, air vents, grids of windows, architectural details, cars and buses, manhole covers and flattened litter in the street: these and other things are scrutinized with even-handed, all-over interest. Cats appear sometimes, but hardly ever any people, except for a tiny nude rooftop sunbather seen from above in a picture from 1981. Burckhardt's painting is cool and dry but also sensuously affectionate. It seems that he loved the city as much as he did the process of painting it, and that makes his work uncommonly touching. KEN JOHNSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PAINTING (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Ken Johnson; Rudy (1914-99) Burckhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



474 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 920 words

 BODY:

BANKING DATA EXAMINED -- Under a secret Bush administration program begun weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks, counterterrorism officials have gained access to financial records from a vast international database and examined banking transactions involving thousands of Americans and others in the United States, according to government and industry officials. [Page A1.] 


FUND INVESTIGATION -- One of the nation's most prominent hedge funds, Pequot Capital Management, is under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission for possible insider trading, according to officials. The S.E.C. declined to confirm or deny that it was investigating Pequot. [A1.]

BIAS SUIT RULING FAVORS WORKERS -- In a 9-to-0 ruling, the Supreme Court substantially enhanced legal protection against retaliation for employees who complain about discrimination or harassment on the job. [A22.]

JUSTICES DROP PATENT CASE -- The Supreme Court backed away from ruling on a closely watched case that could have set boundaries on what discoveries and inventions can be patented. The court dismissed the case, which effectively upheld the medical diagnostic testing patent at issue. [C3.]

ZOCOR PATENT -- Today, Merck's cholesterol-lowering drug Zocor loses its United States patent protection. The change will cost Merck billions of dollars a year, but it could be nearly as damaging to Pfizer, whose rival drug, Lipitor, is the world's most popular medicine. [C1.]

LORD & TAYLOR DEAL -- A team of real estate and private equity investors said they would buy the 48-store Lord & Taylor department store chain from Federated Department Stores for $1.2 billion in cash. [C1.]

NOVELL OUSTS OFFICERS -- The software company Novell ousted its chief executive, Jack L. Messman, and chief financial officer, Joseph S. Tibbetts Jr., in the latest effort to reverse lackluster performance and a sagging share price. Mr. Messman and Mr. Tibbetts led the company as it shifted its focus from networking software to the Linux operating system and related services. [C2.]

INTEREST WORRIES DEPRESS STOCKS -- Stocks fell as investors bet that the Federal Reserve would keep raising interest rates even as economic growth shows signs of slowing. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 60.35 points to end at 11,019.11. [C9.]

LEADING INDICATORS SLIP -- The Index of Leading Economic Indicators slipped 0.6 percent in May to 137.9, the Conference Board said, suggesting that the nation's economy is likely to cool in the coming months. [C9.]

COAL'S COST -- A coal mining boom is devastating large swaths of north China, where some of the nation's richest coal deposits lie. [C1.]

THE CLAUSE -- Tucked into the Coast Guard budget bill is language that would allow Nabors Industries, a big oil drilling company, access to offshore supply business open only to American companies. Nabors moved its tax headquarters to Bermuda and its legal headquarters to Barbados to avoid American taxes. [C1.]

ESTATE TAX VOTE -- The House voted 269 to 156 to abolish the estate tax on inherited wealth permanently for all but a sliver of the nation's wealthiest families. The action sets the stage for a decisive vote in the Senate next week. [C3.]

OPTIMISM ABOUT A TRADE DEAL -- A month after he warned that the five-year negotiations for a global trade agreement were in the ''red zone,'' the head of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, left, said he had grown considerably more optimistic about the odds of a deal. [C4.]

CHRYSLER MAY REVIVE DISCOUNTS -- The Chrysler Group said it was considering bringing back its employee discount program of last summer to clear out a backlog of cars and trucks on showroom lots. The program offers consumers the same deals that employees receive. [C3.]

FED BANK PRESIDENT TO RETIRE -- Jack Guynn, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said that he would retire on Oct. 1. His decision creates a third vacancy on the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rates. [C3.]

AIRLINE PRICE-FIXING INQUIRY -- British and United States agencies are investigating a possible conspiracy to illegally fix the amounts of fuel surcharges imposed on passengers on long-distance flights to and from Britain. [C3.]

UKRAINE MAY REVIEW GAS DEAL -- Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who is poised to return as Ukraine's prime minister, vowed to review a disputed deal with Russia on natural gas imports, setting the stage for a new confrontation that could disrupt her country's economy and threaten supplies of Russian gas to Europe. [A5.]

SCRAMBLE FOR ASSETS -- The bidding war surrounding PCCW, Hong Kong's largest telecommunications company, is taking on a new twist. Everyone seems to want the major telecom assets of PCCW, though not the company itself. [C5.]

LAYOFFS AT INSURER -- Allianz, the insurance giant, announced it would lay off 7,480 employees, about 4 percent of its worldwide work force, as part of an overhaul aimed at raising profitability. Almost all of the layoffs will be in Germany. [C5.]

ONLINE

THE HOME AUCTION -- As sellers seek more control in today's real estate market, they may decide to put their houses under the gavel. A report is at www.nytimes.com/realestate.

MAKING A RUN FOR IT -- Over all, people who jog are less likely to have a heart attack over time than if they had not been joggers. A report by Jane Brody can be found at nytimes.com/health.

ONLINE: DEALBOOK -- A daily report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Novell share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PATENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RETAILERS (86%); DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (68%); CHOLESTEROL (67%); LEGISLATION (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); COAL MINING (63%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (63%); COAL INDUSTRY (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (61%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LORD & TAYLOR LLC (67%); PEQUOT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); PFIZER INC (55%); MACY'S INC (54%); NOVELL INC (53%); NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); M (NYSE) (54%); NBR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (67%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (50%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); BERMUDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



475 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2423 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:

Attractions

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Through Aug. 20, ''Darwin,'' an exhibition devoted to the naturalist, which includes fossils and live creatures as well as a reconstruction of Darwin's study at Down House. Through today, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter,'' the annual walk-in display of hundreds of butterflies in a natural environment. 
Through Jan. 2, ''Voices From South of the Clouds,'' a display of photographs of life in the Yunnan Province of China, taken by villagers. In the Imax theater, through Labor Day, ''Journey into Amazing Caves,'' a film that documents the collaboration of Nancy Aulenbach, a cave explorer, and Hazel Barton, a microbiologist. This month the museum has been named Cultural Organization of the Month by NYC & Company; visitors will receive a free ticket to ''Journey into Amazing Caves,'' when purchasing a ticket for one of the museum's special exhibitions and presenting a coupon downloaded from nycvisit.com/culturalorganization. Timed tickets to ''The Butterfly Conservatory'' and ''Darwin,'' which include museum admission, are $21; $16 for students and 60+; and $12 for those 12 and younger. Imax tickets, which include museum admission, are $21; students and 60+, $16; children under 12, $12. Suggested museum admission: $14; students and 60+, $10.50; children, $8. Combination tickets are available, including museum and Rose Center admission and the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions''): $22; students and 60+, $16.50; 12 and younger, $13; under 2, free; super-saver admission that includes all activities is $30; $23 for students and 60+ and $19 for those 12 and younger.

MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Sunday at 1:30 and 3 p.m., ''Where Pinkies Find Their Purpose,'' a traditional tea; $50 per couple ($40 for members); additional guests, $20 per couple; reservations required: (212) 777-1089. . Self-guided tours are available on weekdays, guided tours on Saturdays and Sundays. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; students and 65+, $5; members and children under 12, free.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan. Through Jan. 7, ''Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery,'' an exhibition of works by more than 30 artists. Through Feb. 25, ''The Hudson River School at the New-York Historical Society: Nature and the American Vision,'' an exhibition of 100 paintings and watercolors from the society's permanent collection, including works by Thomas Cole, Frederic Edwin Church and Jasper Francis Cropsey. Through Sept. 17, ''Group Dynamics: Family Portraits and Scenes of Everyday Life,'' an exhibition of portraits from the 18th and 19th centuries. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays. $10; students and 65+, $5; under 12, free. (212) 873-3400.

NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. Through tomorrow, ''Old Master Prints,'' with works by Nicolas-Toussaint Charlet, Lorenzo Tiepolo and others. Also through tomorrow, ''New York Street Photography From the 1960's and 1970's,'' with works by Diane Arbus, Garry Winogrand, Joel Meyerowitz and others. Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Free. (212) 869-8089.

Events

New York City

BATTERY PARK CITY PARKS CONSERVANCY, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. Today, 5 to 8 p.m., a free Swedish Midsummer Festival, with music and dancing. Tomorrow at 6:30 a.m., the Manhattan Island Marathon, a 28.5-mile swim around Manhattan, beginning and ending at Battery Park City's South Cove. Swimmers must be at least 19 years old. Viewing information: (212) 267-9700; bpcparks.org. Registration information: (888) 692-7946.

'GOOD MORNING AMERICA' SUMMER CONCERT SERIES, Bryant Park, Avenue of the Americas, at 42nd Street. Live performance and ABC broadcast featuring Mary J. Blige. Today, 7 to 9 a.m.

HERITAGE OF PRIDE PARADE, Fifth Avenue, from 56th to Christopher and Greenwich Streets, Greenwich Village. Sunday at noon.

HERITAGE OF PRIDE STREET FESTIVAL, Greenwich and Washington Streets, between Christopher and Spring Streets, West Village. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.

IMMIGRANTS PRIDE PARADE, Avenue of the Americas, from 36th to 56th Streets. Tomorrow at noon.

EMPIRE AUTORAMA, Dag Hammerskjold Plaza, 47th Street and Second Avenue, Manhattan. A free display of classic cars. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sponsored by the Empire Chapter of the Lambda Car Club. empireautorama.com.

fandango de tortugas: a turtle celebration, Belvedere Castle, Central Park, Belvedere Castle, midpark at 79th Street. An afternoon of music, dancing, discussions and appearances by live turtles and tortoises native to New York City and Veracruz, Mexico, to highlight challenges to their survival. Sunday, noon to 4 p.m. Sponsored by Mano a Mano: Mexican Culture Without Borders, the Center for Traditional Music and Dance, the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation and the Central Park Conservancy. Free. (212) 571-1555, Ext. 35.

RACING YACHT DISPLAY, Rockefeller Center, 49th and 50th Streets, between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. The yacht BMW Oracle Racing, a United States challenger for the America's Cup, will be on view through July 2; in addition, there will be screenings of documentary racing films and interactive displays. Daily, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.

bleecker area merchants and residents fest, Bleecker Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Broadway. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

13th precinct community council street fair, Second Avenue, between 23rd and 34th Streets, Manhattan. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

TIMES SQUARE EXPO, Seventh Avenue, between 47th and 57th Streets.Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

SEAFARERS & INTERNATIONAL HOUSE STREET FAIR, Third Avenue, between 14th and 23rd Street, East Village. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

16th annual latin music and blues festival, Columbus Avenue from 86th to 96th Street. Music, artists and exhibitors. Sponsored by Westside Crime Prevention Program. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 764-6330.

24th annual mermaid day parade, Surf Avenue, from 10th Street to the Coney Island Boardwalk, Brooklyn. Tomorrow, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.

JAMAICA BAY SUNSET CRUISE, a three-hour tour to learn about the history of the bay and observe shorebirds and waterfowl. Leaving Sunday at 5 p.m. from Pier No. 6 at Emmons Avenue and Dooley Street, Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn; boarding begins at 4:30 p.m. $35 (includes refreshments). Sponsored by the American Littoral Society. Reservations: (718) 318-9344.

smith street fun day Sunday, Smith Street, from Bergen to Carroll Streets, Brooklyn. Arts, crafts and food vendors. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (718) 852-0328.

bronx week street festival, Mosholu Parkway North and South between Hull and Marion Avenues and Van Cortlandt Avenue East. Tomorrow, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.

MIDWOOD DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION STREET FESTIVAL, Avenue M, between 13th Street to Ocean Avenue, Brooklyn. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

ITALIAN LESSONS, Rizzoli Bookstore, 31 West 57th Street, Manhattan. Sunday at 2 and 3:15 p.m. Free. Registration: (212) 759-2424.

SUMMER SESSIONS Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden, 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan. With dancing, D.J.'s, and design every Friday night through Sept. 8, 6 to 9 p.m. Appearing tonight, Deadbeat. Free with admission, $12; $7, students and 65+. (212) 849-8349.

BLESSED ARE THE MERCIFUL: CELEBRATING HENRY BERGH AND THE A.S.P.C.A., Green-Wood Cemetery, Chapel, Fifth Avenue and 25th Street, Brooklyn. A tribute to the founder of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals that commemorates the 140th anniversary of the society, with an exhibition of diaries, vintage photographs and other items. On view daily, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. through July 2. Free. (718) 768-7300.

Walking Tours

New York City

EIGHTH STREET AND ST. MARKS PLACE A look at the area's history and famous cultural and political residents, meeting tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. on the northwest corner of Second Avenue and St. Marks Place, East Village. Free. Sponsored by the Village Alliance Business Improvement District. (212) 777-2173.

CENTRAL PARK WALKING TOUR, led by the Friends of the Parks, with stops at Bethesda Fountain, the Pond and the Scholars' Gate. Begins Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Pulitzer Fountain on Fifth Avenue and Central Park South. Donation, $1.

BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''Before Stonewall: A Gay and Lesbian History Tour,'' meeting on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and Washington Square North. Tomorrow at 5 p.m., ''Green-Wood Cemetery at Twilight,'' covers the history and architecture of the cemetery and the noted individuals buried there. Fee for each, $15; 63+, $12; students and New-York Historical Society members, $10. (212) 439-1090.

STANFORD WHITE WALKING TOURS, this weekend mark the 100th anniversary of the architect's murder by the millionaire Henry Thaw (June 25, 1906). Tonight at 6 and Sunday at 1 p.m., the Madison Square Park Conservancy will lead free tours of Madison Park and environs, meeting at the Fountain Plaza, Fifth Avenue and 25th Street; reservations: (212) 538-9310. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. and Sunday at 11 a.m., tours of Madison Square, with stories about the writers Edith Wharton and O. Henry as well as White, are sponsored by In Depth Walking Tours; meeting place, on the northwest corner of Madison Square Park, Fifth Avenue and 26th Street; $15; (917) 607-9019.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY OF NEW YORK Tomorrow at 11 a.m., ''Modern Icons,'' visits noted Manhattan buildings, including Lever House, the Seagram Building and the ''Lipstick'' building, meeting on the southeast corner of Third Avenue and 53rd Street. Sunday at 11 a.m., the Brooklyn neighborhood Prospect-Lefferts Garden, which contains buildings in a variety of architectural styles, meeting outside the Prospect Park stop on the Q train. Fee for each: $15; members, $12. (212) 439-1049.

NOSHWALKS Tomorrow at 11:30 a.m., ''Latin American Jackson Heights,'' with samplings of Colombian, Peruvian, Mexican, Ecuadorian and Argentine fare, meeting in front of the North Fork Bank, 37-02 82nd Street, Queens. $33; students, $20. Reservations: (212) 222-2243.

OUTDOORS CLUB Tomorrow at noon, Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge to Far Rockaway, Queens, a seven-mile walk, meeting near the token booth of the Broad Channel station on the A line; (212) 348-5344. Sunday at 1 p.m., the Upper East Side Historical District, covering mansions, houses, museums and schools, meeting at Hunter College, 68th Street and Lexington Avenue; (212) 877-9623. Fee for each, $3. outdoorsclub.info.

'COLUMBUS CIRCLE/CENTRAL PARK: THE NEWEST NEXT GREAT PLACE,' with stops at the Alwyn Court Apartments, the Time Warner Building and Tavern on the Green, meeting on the southwest corner of Seventh Avenue and Central Park South. $10. Sponsored by Bernie's New York. (718) 655-1883.

GREENWICH VILLAGE WATERFRONT TOUR, led by Joyce Gold History Tours, meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. at Father Demo Square, Avenue of the Americas and Bleecker Street. $12. (212) 242-5762.

BROOKLYN CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Brighton Beach,'' with a look at the area's transformation into the center of Russian life in the city, meeting under the elevated train at Brighton Beach and Coney Island Avenues. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Bedford-Stuyvesant Art and History Tour,'' meeting at the Utica Avenue stop on the C line. Fee for each: $11; members, $9; students, $8; (718) 788-8500, Ext. 208.

CENTRAL PARK, FIFTH AVENUE AND CENTRAL PARK WEST, examines the social and architectural history of the area. Tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. $13. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.

HARLEM HERITAGE TOURS Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''Taste of Harlem Walking Tour,'' meeting at 104 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 116th Street., $40. (212) 280-7888.

SHOREWALKERS Sunday at 10 a.m., ''Orchard Beach and City Island,'' the Bronx, with lunch on City Island, meeting at the Pelham Bay stop on the No. 6 train; (212) 874-1067. Fee, $3; lunch additional.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Tomorrow night at 6, ''Evening in Gramercy Park,'' stops at the former homes of Edwin Booth, John Garfield and Margaret Hamilton, meeting in front of the Gramercy Park Hotel, 52 Gramercy Park North. $10. (212) 969-8262.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Free weekend tours of Central Park. Tomorrow at noon, ''Waterways and Vistas,'' meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Cross Park Promenade'' meets at the statue of Samuel F. B. Morse, at Fifth Avenue and 72nd Street. centralparknyc.org.

historic broadway theater district walking tour Tomorrow and Sunday at 10 a.m. $20. Meeting place: (212) 629-8813.

SIDEWALK SURPRISES IN LINCOLN SQUARE Meets every Saturday at 11 a.m. through Nov. 11 inside Columbus Circle, 59th Street and Broadway. Free. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. (212) 581-3774.

DR. PHIL: NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Sunday at 3:30 p.m., ''350th anniversary of the American-Jewish Experience: Jewish Lower East Side Talk and Walk'' visits synagogues, food shops and other sites, meeting in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street, between Ludlow and Essex Streets. Fee: $15. (718) 591-4741 or (888) 377-4455.

METRO TOUR SERVICE visits Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, today through Sunday at 2 p.m., and downtown Brooklyn, with a stop for gospel music, on Sunday at 10 a.m. All tours meeting in front of the Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; $25; (718) 789-0430.

Recreation

New York City

BIKE THE BIG APPLE Tomorrow at 10 a.m., ''Brooklyn Chic Bike Tour,'' a 12-mile ride through Brooklyn Heights, Park Slope and Prospect Park; fee, $65. All equipment provided. Reservations and meeting place: (877) 865-0078; bikethebigapple.com.

A.S.P.C.A. CENTRAL PARK DOG WALK, Central Park, East Meadow, Fifth Avenue and East 99th Street. A half-mile walk for pets and their owners, followed by a festival with music, pet performances and raffles. Tomorrow at 9:30 a.m.; check-in, 7:30 a.m. Registration fee, $20. aspca.org.

FRONT RUNNERS NEW YORK LESBIAN AND GAY PRIDE RUN, Central Park. A five-mile run, beginning tomorrow at 9 a.m. on the 102nd Street Transverse. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners. Advance fee: $25, $17 for members, $13 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race day fee: $35, $25 for members, $15 for 18 and younger and 62+. (212) 860-4455.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A walking tours entry in the Spare Times listing of Weekend yesterday misidentified the starting point of a Central Park tour tomorrow at 2 p.m. led by the Friends of the Parks. It is the Women's Gate at West 72nd Street and Central Park West, not the Pulitzer Fountain at Fifth Avenue and Central Park South. That is where the tour will end.

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- Fandango de Tortugas: A Turtle Celebration. (Photo by Charlie Buckley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); US LABOR DAY (73%); CAVING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

PERSON: TOM COLE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); YUNNAN, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



476 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Islam In Modern America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''American Muslim Clerics Seek a Modern Middle Ground'' (front page, June 18):
 Kudos for profiling two influential Muslim leaders who have a palpable influence in the mainstream American Muslim community. 
 After reading frequent articles describing the hopeless endeavors of pariahs trying to effect change in the broader Islamic community, it's refreshing to read about people whose thought actually matters among the majority of Muslims in America.
 The truth is that those who will dictate the future of Islam in America and the world are those who speak within the tradition, admonishing Muslims to emulate the noble character of their prophet, not those who place themselves outside that tradition and show only contempt for the vast majority of Muslims.

Bisher Tarabishy
Brooklyn, Ohio, June 18, 2006

To the Editor:
 It is encouraging to read that there are American Muslim clerics seeking ways to mesh their faith with our society's modernity. But it is troubling that one of those clerics said that he hoped that America would become an Islamic country ruled by Islamic law. 
 There is nothing wrong with wanting to spread understanding of Islam in America. The better we understand all religions, the better our pluralistic society will be. Religion flourishes in America because we have no imposed religion, as the founding fathers designed.
 Imam Zaid Shakir's hope for an America ruled by Islamic law is fundamentally un-American. Our hope is that he is an aberration and that moderate Muslim voices will prevail. 

Abraham H. Foxman
National Director
Anti-Defamation League
New York, June 19, 2006

To the Editor:
 Imam Zaid Shakir's call for his fellow Muslims to mobilize to help those in need -- especially in war-torn Congo -- is laudable. But by asking, ''Where are the Muslim Doctors Without Borders?'' and urging people to ''form it,'' he unwittingly gives a false impression about the nature of Doctors Without Borders and the humanitarian action we practice. 
 Humanitarian assistance is characterized precisely by the fact that it is provided solely on the basis of need, without a religious, political or economic agenda of any kind. 
 In fact, this impartiality is crucial for our international and local aid workers, who come from a wide variety of backgrounds, in delivering medical aid to people in crisis around the world.

Nicolas de Torrente
Executive Director
Doctors Without Borders
New York, June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (98%); RELIGION (97%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (88%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Islam; United States International Relations; Islam

ORGANIZATION: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (59%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%) Anti-Defamation League; Doctors Without Borders

PERSON: Zaid (Imam) Shakir; Hamza (Sheik) Yusuf; Bisher Tarabishy; Abraham H Foxman; Nicolas de Torrente

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



477 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Our Black Future

BYLINE: By Jeff Goodell. 
Jeff Goodell is the author of ''Big Coal: The Dirty Secret Behind America's Energy Future.''

DATELINE: Saratoga Springs, N.Y. 

 BODY:
NOT long ago, I stood at the bottom of a strip mine in Wyoming and looked up at a 70-foot-high seam of coal. It had a brownish cast and crumbled when I touched it. I could see bits of woody fiber, the remains of a huge swamp that existed there 50 million years ago. I imagined this great coal seam rolling under the prairie for hundreds of miles. ''We're the OPEC of coal,'' the head of a coal industry trade group told me later. 
 Now that the need for greater energy independence has become a universal political slogan, every county commissioner in America has an idea of how we can break free of our Middle Eastern oil shackles: ethanol, hydrogen, solar panels on the roof of every Hummer! Still, it's hard not to be optimistic when you're standing in front of a 70-foot seam of coal. It's not hype; it's real. Is the bridge to energy independence paved in black? 
During World War II, the Nazis, who were desperate to find a way to power their tanks with coal, pursued technology to transform coal into liquid fuels. In South Africa today, one energy company, Sasol, produces about 150,000 barrels a day of diesel from coal. 
 We could do far better in the United States. According to a recent report by the National Coal Council, an advisory board to the Department of Energy that is dominated by coal executives, if America invested $211 billion in coal-to-liquids refineries over the next 20 years, we could make 2.6 million barrels of diesel per day, enhancing the American oil supply by 10 percent. A number of coal-to-liquids plants are on the drawing boards in the United States, and China is eagerly pursuing this technology too. 
 Put aside the question of whether raising fuel efficiency standards for vehicles could achieve the same goal at far less cost. Instead, let's consider the wisdom of substituting one fossil fuel for another. We already burn a billion tons of coal a year -- it generates more than half the electricity in the United States. But thanks in part to ever bigger, more powerful equipment, mining is destroying vast swaths of Appalachia while providing fewer well-paying jobs. 
 From 1984 to 2004, the average coal miner's per-shift productivity more than doubled, while wages declined by 20 percent (adjusted for inflation). If we simply increase consumption, we will be condemning large areas of the country, including eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia, to national sacrifice zones. In addition, coal-to-liquids plants consume enormous quantities of water -- three barrels, on average, for every barrel of fuel produced. In many places, especially the coal-rich but water-poor Western prairies, this is not a good deal. 
 Then there's global warming. To avoid dangerous climate change, many scientists argue that we must cut greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent to 70 percent by 2050. Coal, the most carbon-intensive fossil fuel, is responsible for nearly 40 percent of American emissions of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. Since 1990, carbon dioxide emissions from fossil-fuel power plants have increased by 27 percent, compared to 19 percent from all sources nationally. Coal-to-liquids plants will only accelerate this trend. Depending on the technology used, refining coal can release 50 percent to 100 percent more carbon dioxide than refining petroleum. 
 In theory, carbon dioxide can be captured and sequestered underground in tapped-out oil fields or deep saline aquifers. But this method will work only in regions where the geology is suitable, and even there, good sequestration space is limited. Moreover, injecting carbon dioxide underground can set off earthquakes. And the gas is an asphyxiant: we risk deadly accidents should the millions of tons we would need to bury escape their underground prisons. In 1986, at Lake Nyos in Cameroon, 300,000 tons of naturally occurring carbon dioxide that had been trapped in the lake suddenly rose to the surface and formed a misty cloud, suffocating 1,700 people. 
 Coal-to-liquids plants might make sense for generating back-up fuel for the military. And there are certainly ways coal can play a role in reducing the demand for oil without destroying the climate. Instead of building coal-to-liquids plants, it would be smarter to push for the development of plug-in hybrid cars, which have larger batteries than conventional hybrids, allowing them to replace gasoline with grid-generated electricity and to emit 65 percent less carbon dioxide than conventional cars. But coal boosters are less interested in promoting this path, in part because it would undercut the industry's goal of becoming ''the OPEC of coal.'' The very phrase suggests the industry's monopolistic impulses. 
 The biggest problem with our bounty of coal is not what it does to our mountains or the atmosphere, but what it does to our minds. It preserves the illusion that we don't have to change our lives. Given the profound challenges we face with the end of cheap oil and the arrival of global warming, this is a dangerous fantasy. 
 If we had less coal, we might replace the 19th-century notion that we can drill and burn our way to prosperity with a more modern view of efficiency and sustainability. Instead of spending billions of dollars each year to subsidize tapping out yet another finite resource, we'd pour that money into solar energy, biofuels and other renewable resources. 
 We'd be creating jobs in new industries, not protecting them in old ones. And we'd understand that the real fuel of the future is not coal but creativity.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Polly Becker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SURFACE MINING (89%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); COUNTIES (69%); ALCOHOLS (69%); ETHANOL (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



478 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: At Ethics Camp, Not-So-Tall Tales From the Dark Side 

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif., June 21 

 BODY:
The campers gathered eagerly in a circle, awaiting scary stories, albeit without s'mores.
 The tales were as chilling as Edgar Allen Poe. There was the mayor in Waldron, Ark., who had assignations with a prostitute and gave her a break on her city water bill. And a harrowing account of the errant technologist from the New York City medical examiners' office who, in the face of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, bilked the city out of millions of federal dollars.
 Such tales of real-life corruption were what passed for fun at the Ethics Camp, for politicians and public officials here at Santa Clara University. 
 The two-day camp, at which counselors wore ''moral compasses'' slung around their necks, was perhaps the most novel effort to create ''a culture of ethics and accountability,'' said Judy Nadler, a former mayor of Santa Clara and a senior fellow at the university's Markkula Center for Applied Ethics, the host and sponsor. 
 At a time when Abramoff and Enron have become household names, the two dozen or so campers -- including local city council members and ethics officers from Texas and Arizona -- were a veritable optimists' club. Among them was Joanne SawyerKnoll, who just took the job of deputy chief operating officer of the new Office of Ethics and Integrity for San Diego, a city some have nicknamed Enron-by-the-Sea after revelations of financial irregularities.
 Ms. SawyerKnoll, the former general counsel for the San Diego Unified School District, came to camp for support in her daunting mission: creating an ethical culture in a city reeling from scandal. Her hope is to offer proactive ethics education for more than 11,000 city employees. 
 ''The public trust has been broken,'' Ms. SawyerKnoll said. ''Ethics have become as necessary for cities as public works and homeland security.''
 The camp, which the university plans as an annual event, reflects a growing municipal ethics movement. Over the past five years, for instance, those who serve as ''city ethics officers'' -- there are about 15 now -- have joined state and city ethics commissions, federal prosecutors, whistle-blower hot lines and inspectors general in an effort to prevent municipal ethical lapses before they start. 
 Among items at the camp's show-and-tell was an Enron ethics T-shirt, bought on eBay, emblazoned with the words ''respect'' and ''integrity.'' And instead of synchronized swimming and lanyards, there was talk about creating time for moral reflection and exercises on ''taking ethics to the next level.'' 
 One exercise was a variation on the children's game red light/green light, in which campers weighed in on what to do if they met a constituent at a supermarket who told them that a fellow council member's proposal would benefit that council member's brother.
 New officeholders invariably confront ''a freight train of unavoidable dilemmas,'' in the words of Kirk O. Hanson, the center's executive director, who proceeded to list them.
 Dean J. Chu, a council member from nearby Sunnyvale, chose to go to camp ''as a continuing reminder of how you should behave.'' Mr. Chu added, ''Unfortunately, the kind of people attending are not the ones who need to.''
 The idea of mandatory ethics training for public employees is the latest spin on character education (for politicians, rather than middle schoolers). Although state ethics commissions and codes have proliferated since Watergate, cities are beginning to try more ambitious programs.
 In San Francisco, for instance, the ethics commission has the power to take proposals directly to the electorate -- and has done so with successful ballot measures involving partial public campaign financing
 Next month in Scottsdale, Ariz., a new citywide ethics initiative is in place to train the workforce of 2,700, from garbage haulers to the mayor. It is an effort to improve on a ''piecemeal approach to ethics,'' said Teri J. Traaen, the city's general manager for human resources and a co-chairwoman of the initiative.
 Even Providence, R.I., where a former longtime mayor, Vincent Cianci Jr., is serving a federal prison sentence, is working on an ethics code.
 ''I don't think we've become more unethical,'' Ms. Traaen said, referring to distressing headlines that seem to pop up daily. ''I think we're more candidly talking about it.''
 Beyond morality, corruption is an economic issue, said Carla Miller, an ethics co-officer for Jacksonville, Fla., who, as a former federal prosecutor, helped convict the former mayor and president of the State Senate on corruption charges. 
 ''We have billions of dollars going down the tubes,'' said Ms. Miller, who started a Web site,cityethics.org, to track the movement.
 Minor transgressions, not just breathtaking corruption in high places, contribute to a culture in which unethical conduct is accepted, Ms. Nadler said. 
 ''It's the office worker who goes into the secretary's desk and pulls out a postage stamp to mail a birthday card, the person who mows the grass in a city park and agrees to help a neighbor trim a tree with city property,'' she said.
 In the end, Ms. Miller said, the scariest campfire story is that of widespread public disillusionment.
 ''We should rename this 'Ethics Boot Camp,' '' she added. ''It should be, 'Sergeant, wipe that smile off your face.' Because this is a war, and we're losing.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about an ethics camp in Santa Clara, Calif., where politicians and officials heard accounts of ethical lapses, described as chilling, misspelled the name of an author known for chilling fiction. He is Edgar Allan Poe, not Allen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The camp, which produced a commemorative T-shirt, is expected to be an annual event intended to promote ethics in the municipal workplace.
 Twenty-two public officials voluntarily took part this week in the two-day Ethics Camp in Santa Clara, Calif. (Photographs by Theo Rigby for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CITIES (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SCANDALS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PROSTITUTION (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); SWIMMING (50%); SPORTS (50%); LAWYERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



479 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Panel Supports a Controversial Report on Global Warming

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
An influential and controversial paper asserting that recent warming in the Northern Hemisphere was probably unrivaled for 1,000 years was endorsed Thursday, with a few reservations, by a panel convened by the nation's pre-eminent scientific body.
 The panel said that a statistical method used in the 1999 study was not the best and that some uncertainties in the work ''have been underestimated,'' and particularly challenged the authors' conclusion that the 1990's were probably the warmest decade in a millennium. 
But in a 155-page report, the 12-member panel convened by the National Academies said ''an array of evidence'' supported the main thrust of the paper. Disputes over details, it said, reflected the normal intellectual clash that takes place as science tests new approaches to old questions.
 The study, led by Michael E. Mann, a climatologist now at Pennsylvania State University, was the first to estimate widespread climate trends by stitching together a grab bag of evidence, including variations in ancient tree rings and temperatures measured in deep holes in the earth. 
 It has been repeatedly attacked by Republican lawmakers and some industry-financed groups as built on cherry-picked data meant to create an alarming view of recent warming and play down past natural warm periods.
 At a news conference at the headquarters of the National Academies, several members of the panel reviewing the study said they saw no sign that its authors had intentionally chosen data sets or methods to get a desired result. 
 ''I saw nothing that spoke to me of any manipulation,'' said one member, Peter Bloomfield, a statistics professor at North Carolina State University. He added that his impression was that the study was ''an honest attempt to construct a data analysis procedure.''
 More broadly, the panel examined other recent research comparing the pronounced warming trend over the last several decades with temperature shifts over the last 2,000 years. It expressed high confidence that warming over the last 25 years exceeded any peaks since 1600. And in a news conference here on Thursday, three panelists said the current warming was probably, but not certainly, beyond any peaks since the year 900.
 The experts said there was no reliable way to make estimates for surface-temperature trends in the first millennium A.D. 
 In the report, the panel emphasized that the significant remaining uncertainties about climate patterns over the last 2,000 years did not weaken the scientific case that the current warming trend was caused mainly by people, through the buildup of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 
 ''Surface temperature reconstructions for periods prior to the industrial era are only one of multiple lines of evidence supporting the conclusion that climatic warming is occurring in response to human activities, and they are not the primary evidence,'' the report said. 
 The 1999 paper is part of a growing body of work trying to pull together disparate clues of climate conditions before the age of weather instruments. 
 The paper includes a graph of temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere that gained the nickname ''hockey stick'' because of its vivid depiction of a long period with little temperature variation for nearly 1,000 years, followed by a sharp upward hook in recent decades. 
 The hockey stick has become something of an environmentalist icon. It was prominently displayed in a pivotal 2001 United Nations report concluding that greenhouse gases from human activities had probably caused most of the warming measured since 1950. A version of it is in the Al Gore documentary ''Inconvenient Truth.''
 Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, and Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, have repeatedly criticized the Mann study, citing several peer-reviewed papers challenging its methods. 
 The main critiques were done by Stephen McIntyre, a statistician and part-time consultant in Toronto to minerals industries, and Ross McKitrick, an economist at the University of Guelph in Ontario. 
 They contended that Dr. Mann and his colleagues selected particular statistical methods and sets of data, like a record of rings in bristlecone pine trees, that were most apt to produce a picture of unusual recent warming. They also complained that Dr. Mann refused to share his data and techniques. 
 On his Web log, climateaudit.org, on Thursday, Mr. McIntyre said the panel's report seemed to have ''two completely distinct personalities,'' upholding specific criticisms of Dr. Mann's methods, but still positing it was plausible that recent warming exceeded any warm periods for 1,000 years.
 In an interview, Dr. Mann expressed muted satisfaction with the panel's findings. He said it clearly showed that the 1999 analysis had held up over time. 
 But he complained that the committee seemed to forget about the many caveats that were in the original paper. ''Even the title of the paper on which all this has been based is as much about the caveats and uncertainties as it is about the findings,'' he said.
 The paper, published in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, was called ''Northern Hemisphere Temperatures During the Past Millennium: Inferences, Uncertainties and Limitations.''
 Raymond S. Bradley, a University of Massachusetts geoscientist and one of Dr. Mann's co-authors, said that the caveats were dropped mainly as the graph was widely reproduced by others. (The other author of the 1999 paper was Malcolm K. Hughes of the University of Arizona.)
 The report was done at the request of Representative Sherwood Boehlert, the New York Republican who is chairman of the House Science Committee, who called last November for a review of the 1999 study and related research to clear the air. 
 In a statement, Mr. Boehlert, who is retiring at the end of the year, expressed satisfaction with the results, saying, ''There is nothing in this report that should raise any doubts about the broad scientific consensus on global climate change -- which doesn't rest primarily on these temperature issues, in any event -- or any doubts about whether any paper on the temperature records was legitimate scientific work.'' 
 Critics of the paper remain unconvinced. 
 A separate panel of statisticians is dissecting Dr. Mann's data and papers for the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, a spokesman for the chairman, Mr. Barton, said.


A REVIEW OF SEVEN STUDIES
Authors have less confidence in the data further back in time.

(Sources by Dr. Michael Mann, Pennsylvania State University (1999 study); National Academy of Sciences)

GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Comparing Temperature Curves''A 1999 study of historical temperature data provoked controversy after concluding that recent decades were the warmest in the last 1,000 years. A review of several temperature reconstructions shows some resemblance to the 1999 study. Authors of the review say they have ''high confidence'' that the highlighted block of data is accurate.Temperature change from the average1999 STUDYGraphs track temperature change for the average since 1000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); TRENDS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); MILLENNIUM (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); WEATHER (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EVIDENCE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



480 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine's Likely Premier Vows to Review Gas Deal With Russia 

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 22 

 BODY:
Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who is poised to return as Ukraine's prime minister, vowed Thursday to review a disputed deal with Russia on natural gas imports, setting the stage for a new confrontation that could disrupt her country's economy and threaten supplies of Russian gas to Europe.
 She spoke as three political parties once closely allied with President Viktor A. Yushchenko -- and then deeply divided -- formally signed an agreement to create a parliamentary coalition and, eventually, a new government that would follow the pro-Western course he set. The agreement ended nearly three months of political paralysis, but did not address many of the issues that split Mr. Yushchenko's supporters after he took office in January 2005. 
 Ms. Tymoshenko, who was Mr. Yushchenko's first prime minister for eight months last year, returned Thursday to the political oratory that made her hugely popular, even as it worried foreign investors and angered her allies in what became known as the Orange Revolution.
 She vowed to fight corruption, judicial machinations and shadowy privatization deals made under Mr. Yushchenko's predecessor, Leonid D. Kuchma. Her policies as prime minister provoked internal battles and mutual accusations of corruption, and she was fired last September.
 Her bloc of candidates won the largest number of seats in the March parliamentary election among the three blocs that formed the new coalition. The lengthy new coalition agreement positions her to become prime minister, though she must still face a vote in Parliament in the next month before taking office and creating a new government.
 ''Today we begin our fight for our country to be democratic and cleansed of the dirt of corruption,'' Ms. Tymoshenko told Parliament while announcing the coalition, prompting applause and jeers.
 She also vowed to challenge a complicated compromise with Russia, made after she left office, that nearly doubled the price Ukraine pays for Russian gas. The compromise was made after a New Year's confrontation that briefly stopped gas supplies to much of Europe.
 It has proved divisive and, for Ukraine's leaders, politically troublesome. On Wednesday, as a parliamentary coalition was being negotiated, thousands of Ukrainians protested two rounds of cost increases being passed on to consumers.
 ''I think all agreements on gas supplies to Ukraine need a further profound revision,'' Ms. Tymoshenko told journalists in televised remarks from the capital, Kiev. She said she would soon visit Ukraine's main suppliers, including Russia and Turkmenistan, to renegotiate, though she pledged to do so in a friendly way.
 The United States and Europe have expressed concerns about terms of the agreement and its lack of openness, but it appears unlikely Ms. Tymoshenko can revise it without jeopardizing the current price, $95 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas, compared with $50 before the deal.
 Under the compromise reached in January, the price could rise next month, and Russia's gas monopoly, Gazprom, has vowed to seek more increases. That seems even more likely after Turkmenistan said this week that it would seek to raise the price it charges Russia. Much of the Turkmen gas, now $65 per 1,000 cubic meters, is shipped to Ukraine, effectively subsidizing its supply through an arrangement with a gas trading company, RosUkrEnergo, controlled by Gazprom, Russia's gas monopoly.
 Gazprom said Ms. Tymoshenko's remarks opened ''the way to a new gas crisis,'' Interfax reported. On Thursday, Gazprom said it would raise what Moldova pays to $160 per 1,000 cubic meters, from $110.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (72%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); DISMISSALS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: YULIA TYMOSHENKO (89%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



481 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Discord Between the Muslim and Western Worlds

BYLINE: By MEG BORTIN; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, June 22 

 BODY:
Non-Muslim Westerners and Muslims around the world have widely different views of world events, and each group tends to view the other as violent, intolerant and lacking in respect for women, a new international survey of more than 14,000 people in 13 nations indicates.
 In what the survey, part of the Pew Global Attitudes Project for 2006, called one of its most striking findings, majorities in Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and Turkey -- Muslim countries with fairly strong ties to the United States -- said, for example, that they did not believe that Arabs had carried out the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States. 
The findings illustrating the chasm in beliefs follow another year of violence and tension centered on that divide. In the last 12 months there have been terrorist bombings in London; riots in France by unemployed youths, many of them Muslim; a global uproar over Danish cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad; and no letup in the war in Iraq.
 This led majorities in the United States and in countries in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East to describe relations between Muslims and people in Western countries as generally bad, Pew found.
 Over all, Muslims in the survey, including the large Islamic populations in Britain, France, Germany and Spain, broadly blamed the West for the bad relations, while Westerners tended to blame Muslims. 
 Muslims in the Middle East and Asia depicted Westerners as immoral and selfish, while Westerners saw Muslims as fanatical.
 The results were not uniform, and delivered some surprises. Support for terrorism declined in some of the Muslim countries surveyed, dropping sharply in Jordan, where terrorist bombings killed more than 50 people in Amman in November.
 Two-thirds of the French people surveyed expressed positive views of Muslims, and even larger majorities of French Muslims felt favorable toward Christians and Jews. Muslims surveyed in Europe were less inclined to see a ''clash of civilizations'' than were general publics in Europe or Muslims elsewhere.
 Pew found sharp divergences regarding respect for women: non-Muslims in the West view Muslims as lacking respect, the survey indicated, while Muslims outside Europe say the same of Westerners.
 In the West, where many see Islamic customs like mandatory veils for women and regulations barring them from working outside the home or driving as discriminatory, big majorities saw Muslims as not respectful of women. 
 In contrast, fewer than half of the Muslims asked in Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Nigeria, Pakistan and Turkey said they associated Westerners with respect for women. European Muslims surveyed were more likely to view Westerners as respectful of women, in some places by wide margins. 
 Pew, which interviewed Muslims in Europe as a group for the first time this year, said their views represented ''a bridge'' between the widely divergent views of other Europeans and of Muslims in Asia and the Middle East.
 The overall results, said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, show that ''even though relations are not good, there hasn't been a spike in outright hostility between the two groups over the past year.'' 
 Nonetheless, majorities in every country surveyed except Pakistan expressed pessimism about Muslim-Western relations, with Germany most strongly viewing the situation as bad (70 percent), followed by France (66 percent), Turkey (64 percent), Spain and Britain (61 percent), and Egypt (58 percent).
 Pew surveyed 14,030 people from March 31 to May 14 in Britain, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Nigeria, Pakistan, Russia, Spain, Turkey and the United States. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus two to four percentage points, except in Britain and Germany, where it was six points. 
 For analytical purposes, Muslims were oversampled in Britain, France, Germany and Spain, and the margin of sampling error for their responses is plus or minus five or six points. Interviews were conducted face to face, except in the United States, Britain, France and Germany, where they were done by phone. The poll was conducted nationwide except in India and Pakistan, where it mostly covered only urban areas. 
 In follow-up interviews in countries surveyed about the results, Muslims attributed poor relations with the West to a variety of causes. But many pointed to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians as the main cause and accused the West of double standards on terrorism.
 Pew asked respondents to give their opinions of Christians, Muslims and Jews, and it found anti-Jewish sentiment to be ''overwhelming'' in the Muslim countries surveyed. It reached 98 percent in Jordan and 97 percent in Egypt.
 Majorities in the Muslim world, Pew said, also expressed the opinion that the victory of the militant group Hamas in Palestinian elections in January would ''be helpful to a fair settlement between Israel and the Palestinians'' -- a view that was roundly rejected by non-Muslim publics.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Views of Each Other''WHEN NON-MUSLIMS WERE ASKED:Are Muslims fanatical?Spain: 83% said yesGermany: 78France: 50Great Britain: 48U.S.: 43. . . respectful of women?Spain: 83% said noGermany: 80France: 77U.S.: 69Great Britain: 59WHEN MUSLIMS WERE ASKED:Are non-Muslims fanatical?Jordan: 68% said yesTurkey: 67Egypt: 61Indonesia: 41Pakistan: 24. . . respectful of women?Jordan: 53% said noEgypt: 52Pakistan: 52Indonesia: 50Turkey: 39(Source by The Pew Research Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WOMEN (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); RIOTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); TURKEY (94%); JORDAN (94%); INDONESIA (94%); EGYPT (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ASIA (93%); NIGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%); DENMARK (56%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



482 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3907 words

HEADLINE: BANK DATA SIFTED IN SECRET BY U.S. TO BLOCK TERROR

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU and JAMES RISEN; Barclay Walsh contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
Under a secret Bush administration program initiated weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks, counterterrorism officials have gained access to financial records from a vast international database and examined banking transactions involving thousands of Americans and others in the United States, according to government and industry officials.
 The program is limited, government officials say, to tracing transactions of people suspected of having ties to Al Qaeda by reviewing records from the nerve center of the global banking industry, a Belgian cooperative that routes about $6 trillion daily between banks, brokerages, stock exchanges and other institutions. The records mostly involve wire transfers and other methods of moving money overseas and into and out of the United States. Most routine financial transactions confined to this country are not in the database.
 Viewed by the Bush administration as a vital tool, the program has played a hidden role in domestic and foreign terrorism investigations since 2001 and helped in the capture of the most wanted Qaeda figure in Southeast Asia, the officials said.
 The program, run out of the Central Intelligence Agency and overseen by the Treasury Department, ''has provided us with a unique and powerful window into the operations of terrorist networks and is, without doubt, a legal and proper use of our authorities,'' Stuart Levey, an under secretary at the Treasury Department, said in an interview on Thursday. 
 The program is grounded in part on the president's emergency economic powers, Mr. Levey said, and multiple safeguards have been imposed to protect against any unwarranted searches of Americans' records. 
 The program, however, is a significant departure from typical practice in how the government acquires Americans' financial records. Treasury officials did not seek individual court-approved warrants or subpoenas to examine specific transactions, instead relying on broad administrative subpoenas for millions of records from the cooperative, known as Swift.
 That access to large amounts of confidential data was highly unusual, several officials said, and stirred concerns inside the administration about legal and privacy issues.
 ''The capability here is awesome or, depending on where you're sitting, troubling,'' said one former senior counterterrorism official who considers the program valuable. While tight controls are in place, the official added, ''the potential for abuse is enormous.'' 
 The program is separate from the National Security Agency's efforts to eavesdrop without warrants and collect domestic phone records, operations that have provoked fierce public debate and spurred lawsuits against the government and telecommunications companies.
 But all the programs grew out of the Bush administration's desire to exploit technological tools to prevent another terrorist strike, and all reflect attempts to break down longstanding legal or institutional barriers to the government's access to private information about Americans and others inside the United States. 
 Officials described the Swift program as the biggest and most far-reaching of several secret efforts to trace terrorist financing. Much more limited agreements with other companies have provided access to A.T.M. transactions, credit card purchases and Western Union wire payments, the officials said.
 Nearly 20 current and former government officials and industry executives discussed aspects of the Swift operation with The New York Times on condition of anonymity because the program remains classified. Some of those officials expressed reservations about the program, saying that what they viewed as an urgent, temporary measure had become permanent nearly five years later without specific Congressional approval or formal authorization.
 Data from the Brussels-based banking consortium, formally known as the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, has allowed officials from the C.I.A., the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other agencies to examine ''tens of thousands'' of financial transactions, Mr. Levey said.
 While many of those transactions have occurred entirely on foreign soil, officials have also been keenly interested in international transfers of money by individuals, businesses, charities and other groups under suspicion inside the United States, officials said. A small fraction of Swift's records involve transactions entirely within this country, but Treasury officials said they were uncertain whether any had been examined.
 Swift executives have been uneasy at times about their secret role, the government and industry officials said. By 2003, the executives told American officials they were considering pulling out of the arrangement, which began as an emergency response to the Sept. 11 attacks, the officials said. Worried about potential legal liability, the Swift executives agreed to continue providing the data only after top officials, including Alan Greenspan, then chairman of the Federal Reserve, intervened. At that time, new controls were introduced.
 Among the safeguards, government officials said, is an outside auditing firm that verifies that the data searches are based on intelligence leads about suspected terrorists. ''We are not on a fishing expedition,'' Mr. Levey said. ''We're not just turning on a vacuum cleaner and sucking in all the information that we can.''
 Swift and Treasury officials said they were aware of no abuses. But Mr. Levey, the Treasury official, said one person had been removed from the operation for conducting a search considered inappropriate.
 Treasury officials said Swift was exempt from American laws restricting government access to private financial records because the cooperative was considered a messaging service, not a bank or financial institution.
 But at the outset of the operation, Treasury and Justice Department lawyers debated whether the program had to comply with such laws before concluding that it did not, people with knowledge of the debate said. Several outside banking experts, however, say that financial privacy laws are murky and sometimes contradictory and that the program raises difficult legal and public policy questions. 
 The Bush administration has made no secret of its campaign to disrupt terrorist financing, and President Bush, Treasury officials and others have spoken publicly about those efforts. Administration officials, however, asked The New York Times not to publish this article, saying that disclosure of the Swift program could jeopardize its effectiveness. They also enlisted several current and former officials, both Democrat and Republican, to vouch for its value. 
 Bill Keller, the newspaper's executive editor, said: ''We have listened closely to the administration's arguments for withholding this information, and given them the most serious and respectful consideration. We remain convinced that the administration's extraordinary access to this vast repository of international financial data, however carefully targeted use of it may be, is a matter of public interest.''
 Mr. Levey agreed to discuss the classified operation after the Times editors told him of the newspaper's decision.
 On Thursday evening, Dana Perino, deputy White House press secretary, said: ''Since immediately following 9/11, the American government has taken every legal measure to prevent another attack on our country. One of the most important tools in the fight against terror is our ability to choke off funds for the terrorists.''
 She added: ''We know the terrorists pay attention to our strategy to fight them, and now have another piece of the puzzle of how we are fighting them. We also know they adapt their methods, which increases the challenge to our intelligence and law enforcement officials.''
 Referring to the disclosure by The New York Times last December of the National Security Agency's eavesdropping program, she said, ''The president is concerned that once again The New York Times has chosen to expose a classified program that is working to protect our citizens.''
 Swift declined to discuss details of the program but defended its role in written responses to questions. ''Swift has fully complied with all applicable laws,'' the consortium said. The organization said it insisted that the data be used only for terrorism investigations and had narrowed the scope of the information provided to American officials over time. 

A Crucial Gatekeeper
 Swift's database provides a rich hunting ground for government investigators. Swift is a crucial gatekeeper, providing electronic instructions on how to transfer money among 7,800 financial institutions worldwide. The cooperative is owned by more than 2,200 organizations, and virtually every major commercial bank, as well as brokerage houses, fund managers and stock exchanges, uses its services. Swift routes more than 11 million transactions each day, most of them across borders. 
 The cooperative's message traffic allows investigators, for example, to track money from the Saudi bank account of a suspected terrorist to a mosque in New York. Starting with tips from intelligence reports about specific targets, agents search the database in what one official described as a ''24-7'' operation. Customers' names, bank account numbers and other identifying information can be retrieved, the officials said. 
 The data does not allow the government to track routine financial activity, like A.T.M. withdrawals, confined to this country, or to see bank balances, Treasury officials said. And the information is not provided in real time -- Swift generally turns it over several weeks later. Because of privacy concerns and the potential for abuse, the government sought the data only for terrorism investigations and prohibited its use for tax fraud, drug trafficking or other inquiries, the officials said. 
 The Treasury Department was charged by President Bush, in a September 2001 executive order, with taking the lead role in efforts to disrupt terrorist financing. Mr. Bush has been briefed on the program and Vice President Dick Cheney has attended C.I.A. demonstrations, the officials said. The National Security Agency has provided some technical assistance.
 While the banking program is a closely held secret, administration officials have held classified briefings for some members of Congress and the Sept. 11 commission, the officials said. More lawmakers were briefed in recent weeks, after the administration learned The Times was making inquiries for this article. 
 Swift's 25-member board of directors, made up of representatives from financial institutions around the world, was previously told of the program. The Group of 10's central banks, in major industrialized countries, which oversee Swift, were also informed. It is not clear if other network participants know that American intelligence officials can examine their message traffic.
 Because Swift is based overseas and has offices in the United States, it is governed by European and American laws. Several international regulations and policies impose privacy restrictions on companies that are generally regarded as more stringent than those in this country. United States law establishes some protections for the privacy of Americans' financial data, but they are not ironclad. A 1978 measure, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, has a limited scope and a number of exceptions, and its role in national security cases remains largely untested.
 Several people familiar with the Swift program said they believed that they were exploiting a ''gray area'' in the law and that a case could be made for restricting the government's access to the records on Fourth Amendment and statutory grounds. They also worried about the impact on Swift if the program were disclosed. 
 ''There was always concern about this program,'' a former official said. 
 One person involved in the Swift program estimated that analysts had reviewed international transfers involving ''many thousands'' of people or groups in the United States. Two other officials placed the figure in the thousands. Mr. Levey said he could not estimate the number. 
 The Swift data has provided clues to money trails and ties between possible terrorists and groups financing them, the officials said. In some instances, they said, the program has pointed them to new suspects, while in others it has buttressed cases already under investigation.
 Among the successes was the capture of a Qaeda operative, Riduan Isamuddin, better known as Hambali, believed to be the mastermind of the 2002 bombing of a Bali resort, several officials said. The Swift data identified a previously unknown figure in Southeast Asia who had financial dealings with a person suspected of being a member of Al Qaeda; that link helped locate Hambali in Thailand in 2003, they said. 
 In the United States, the program has provided financial data in investigations into possible domestic terrorist cells as well as inquiries of Islamic charities with suspected of having links to extremists, the officials said. 
 The data also helped identify a Brooklyn man who was convicted on terrorism-related charges last year, the officials said. The man, Uzair Paracha, who worked at a New York import business, aided a Qaeda operative in Pakistan by agreeing to launder $200,000 through a Karachi bank, prosecutors said. 
 In terrorism prosecutions, intelligence officials have been careful to ''sanitize,'' or hide the origins of evidence collected through the program to keep it secret, officials said. 
 The Bush administration has pursued steps that may provide some enhanced legal standing for the Swift program. In late 2004, Congress authorized the Treasury Department to develop regulations requiring American banks to turn over records of international wire transfers. Officials say a preliminary version of those rules may be ready soon. One official described the regulations as an attempt to ''formalize'' access to the kind of information secretly provided by Swift, though other officials said the initiative was unrelated to the program.

The Scramble for New Tools
 Like other counterterrorism measures carried out by the Bush administration, the Swift program began in the hectic days after the Sept. 11 attacks, as officials scrambled to identify new tools to head off further strikes. 
 One priority was to cut off the flow of money to Al Qaeda. The 9/11 hijackers had helped finance their plot by moving money through banks. Nine of the hijackers, for instance, funneled money from Europe and the Middle East to SunTrust bank accounts in Florida. Some of the $130,000 they received was wired by people overseas with known links to Al Qaeda.
 Financial company executives, many of whom had lost friends at the World Trade Center, were eager to help federal officials trace terrorist money. ''They saw 9/11 not just as an attack on the United States, but on the financial industry as a whole,'' said one former government official.
 Quietly, counterterrorism officials sought to expand the information they were getting from financial institutions. Treasury officials, for instance, spoke with credit card companies about devising an alert if someone tried to buy fertilizer and timing devices that could be used for a bomb, but they were told the idea was not logistically possible, a lawyer in the discussions said.
 The F.B.I. began acquiring financial records from Western Union and its parent company, the First Data Corporation. The programs were alluded to in Congressional testimony by the F.B.I. in 2003 and described in more detail in a book released this week, ''The One Percent Doctrine,'' by Ron Suskind. Using what officials described as individual, narrowly framed subpoenas and warrants, the F.B.I. has obtained records from First Data, which processes credit and debit card transactions, to track financial activity and try to locate suspects. 
 Similar subpoenas for the Western Union data allowed the F.B.I. to trace wire transfers, mainly outside the United States, and to help Israel disrupt about a half-dozen possible terrorist plots there by unraveling the financing, an official said.
 The idea for the Swift program, several officials recalled, grew out of a suggestion by a Wall Street executive, who told a senior Bush administration official about Swift's database. Few government officials knew much about the consortium, which is led by a Brooklyn native, Leonard H. Schrank, but they quickly discovered it offered unparalleled access to international transactions. Swift, a former government official said, was ''the mother lode, the Rosetta stone'' for financial data.
 Intelligence officials were so eager to use the Swift data that they discussed having the C.I.A. covertly gain access to the system, several officials involved in the talks said. But Treasury officials resisted, the officials said, and favored going to Swift directly. 
 At the same time, lawyers in the Treasury Department and the Justice Department were considering possible legal obstacles to the arrangement, the officials said. 
 In 1976, the Supreme Court ruled that Americans had no constitutional right to privacy for their records held by banks or other financial institutions. In response, Congress passed the Right to Financial Privacy Act two years later, restricting government access to Americans' banking records. In considering the Swift program, some government lawyers were particularly concerned about whether the law prohibited officials from gaining access to records without a warrant or subpoena based on some level of suspicion about each target.
 For many years, law enforcement officials have relied on grand-jury subpoenas or court-approved warrants for such financial data. Since 9/11, the F.B.I. has turned more frequently to an administrative subpoena, known as a national security letter, to demand such records.
 After an initial debate, Treasury Department lawyers, consulting with the Justice Department, concluded that the privacy laws applied to banks, not to a banking cooperative like Swift. They also said the law protected individual customers and small companies, not the major institutions that route money through Swift on behalf of their customers.
 Other state, federal and international regulations place different and sometimes conflicting restrictions on the government's access to financial records. Some put greater burdens on the company disclosing the information than on the government officials demanding it.
 Among their considerations, American officials saw Swift as a willing partner in the operation. But Swift said its participation was never voluntary. ''Swift has made clear that it could provide data only in response to a valid subpoena,'' according to its written statement. 
 Indeed, the cooperative's executives voiced early concerns about legal and corporate liability, officials said, and the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Asset Control began issuing broad subpoenas for the cooperative's records related to terrorism. One official said the subpoenas were intended to give Swift some legal protection. 
 Underlying the government's legal analysis was the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, which Mr. Bush invoked after the 9/11 attacks. The law gives the president what legal experts say is broad authority to ''investigate, regulate or prohibit'' foreign transactions in responding to ''an unusual and extraordinary threat.'' 
 But L. Richard Fischer, a Washington lawyer who wrote a book on banking privacy and is regarded as a leading expert in the field, said he was troubled that the Treasury Department would use broad subpoenas to demand large volumes of financial records for analysis. Such a program, he said, appears to do an end run around bank-privacy laws that generally require the government to show that the records of a particular person or group are relevant to an investigation.
 ''There has to be some due process,'' Mr. Fischer said. ''At an absolute minimum, it strikes me as inappropriate.''
 Several former officials said they had lingering concerns about the legal underpinnings of the Swift operation. The program ''arguably complies with the letter of the law, if not the spirit,'' one official said. 
 Another official said: ''This was creative stuff. Nothing was clear cut, because we had never gone after information this way before.''
 Treasury officials said they considered the government's authority to subpoena the Swift records to be clear. ''People do not have a privacy interest in their international wire transactions,'' Mr. Levey, the Treasury under secretary, said. 

Tighter Controls Sought
 Within weeks of 9/11, Swift began turning over records that allowed American analysts to look for evidence of terrorist financing. Initially, there appear to have been few formal limits on the searches. 
 ''At first, they got everything -- the entire Swift database,'' one person close to the operation said.
 Intelligence officials paid particular attention to transfers to or from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates because most of the 9/11 hijackers were from those countries. 
 The volume of data, particularly at the outset, was often overwhelming, officials said. ''We were turning on every spigot we could find and seeing what water would come out,'' one former administration official said. ''Sometimes there were hits, but a lot of times there weren't.''
 Officials realized the potential for abuse, and narrowed the program's targets and put in more safeguards. Among them were the auditing firm, an electronic record of every search and a requirement that analysts involved in the operation document the intelligence that justified each data search. Mr. Levey said the program was used only to examine records of individuals or entities, not for broader data searches. 
 Despite the controls, Swift executives became increasingly worried about their secret involvement with the American government, the officials said. By 2003, the cooperative's officials were discussing pulling out because of their concerns about legal and financial risks if the program were revealed, one government official said. 
 ''How long can this go on?'' a Swift executive asked, according to the official.
 Even some American officials began to question the open-ended arrangement. ''I thought there was a limited shelf life and that this was going to go away,'' the former senior official said. 
 In 2003, administration officials asked Swift executives and some board members to come to Washington. They met with Mr. Greenspan, Robert S. Mueller III, the F.B.I. director, and Treasury officials, among others, in what one official described as ''a full-court press.'' Aides to Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Mueller declined to comment on the meetings.
 The executives agreed to continue supplying records after the Americans pledged to impose tighter controls. Swift representatives would be stationed alongside intelligence officials and could block any searches considered inappropriate, several officials said.
 The procedural change provoked some opposition at the C.I.A. because ''the agency was chomping at the bit to have unfettered access to the information,'' a senior counterterrorism official said. But the Treasury Department saw it as a necessary compromise, the official said, to ''save the program.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Financial data from the Swift program led to the capture of Hambali, a Qaeda operative, in 2003. (Photo by Associated Press)
 The Swift data helped convict Uzair Paracha on terrorism-related charges last year in New York. (pg. A10)Chart: ''A Money Transfer''The Brussels-based Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, also known as Swift, provides electronic messaging services that direct financial transactions worth about $6 trillion a day among some 7,800 institutions worldwide. A look at a typical transaction:SENDER instructs a bank, or other financial institution, to send money to a desired recipient, often in another country.SENDER'S BANK sends detailed payment instructions to receiver's bank through Swift.SWIFT processes the message that includes names and numbers of accounts involved and a description of the asset being transferred. It does not actually move money with the message.IN THE UNITED STATES107 institutions are members of Swift.588 institutions use the system.When the transaction is settled, the sender's bank transfers the money to the recipent's bank.RECIPIENT'S BANK credits the amount to the recipient's account according to the message.RECIPIENT collects the amount.(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SUBPOENAS (88%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); WIRE TRANSFERS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (64%); LITIGATION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



483 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; A Look at Republican Priorities; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Afflicting the Afflicted

 BODY:
At the same time that Republicans are fighting to exempt the richest estates from taxes, they are blocking a raise for the nation's poorest workers.
 Senate Democrats tried unsuccessfully this week to raise the federal minimum wage, which stands at just $5.15 an hour. It has not been increased in nearly a decade, and at its current stingy level, the rate flies in the face of Americans' belief that those who work hard and play by the rules will be rewarded. A minimum-wage worker earns just $10,700 a year, nearly $6,000 below the poverty line for a family of three. Since the minimum wage was first adopted, there has been a long tradition of bipartisan support for regular raises. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon and George H. W. Bush all signed increases into law. Americans across the political spectrum strongly support the minimum wage, and believe it should be significantly higher. A recent poll by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center found that 83 percent of Americans favored increasing the minimum wage by $2. 
Nevertheless, since 1997 minimum-wage increases have regularly been blocked in Congress. The restaurant industry and other low-wage employers that make heavy campaign contributions have thrown their weight around with great success. A bill sponsored by Edward Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to increase the minimum wage by $2.10 over two years drew the support this week of 52 senators, including eight Republicans, but Republican leaders threw up procedural barriers. And in the House, Republican leaders are not letting a minimum-wage increase come to a vote, apparently because it would pass.
 Just 23 percent of Americans approve of the job Congress is doing, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. These dismal ratings are no surprise when Congress's highest economic priority is handing out tax cuts to millionaires and oil companies, and its one point of fiscal restraint is protecting employers from having to pay a decent wage to factory workers and waiters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



484 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 737 words

PERSON: Louis B. Sohn

HEADLINE: Louis B. Sohn, Passionate Supporter of the U.N., Dies at 92

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Louis B. Sohn, a professor of international law who helped draft parts of the United Nations Charter in 1945 and was a leader in subsequent efforts to turn the United Nations into a true world government, died on June 7 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 92.
 The cause was complications of a stroke, said Paige Otwell, a friend. 
For nearly 50 years, while at the Harvard School of Law and then the University of Georgia School of Law, Professor Sohn served on commissions and organized conferences around the world, championing disarmament, human rights and increased powers for the United Nations. 
 He called for the creation of a permanent United Nations peace force. He wanted nations with nuclear arsenals to hand them over to the United Nations and use their military budgets for relieving poverty. He campaigned to have the 1948 United Nations Declaration of Human Rights accepted as a legally binding document, rather than a statement of principles. In 1968, the General Assembly adopted that premise.
 Those proposals and others were seized upon by American isolationists to attack the United Nations. Professor Sohn called them ''the minimum requirements for peace, not a utopian scheme for a perfect world community.''
 Louis Bruno Sohn was born on March 1, 1914, in what was then Lwow, now Lviv, then part of Poland but now in Ukraine. He graduated from John Casimir University there and then earned a law degree in 1939. 
 Professor Sohn's parents, Isaak and Fredericka Sohn, were doctors. His father, taken to an internment camp after the invasion of Poland, barely survived World War II. His mother died of pneumonia that first winter.
 Two weeks before the invasion, at the invitation of a Harvard law professor who read one of his legal treatises, Professor Sohn had boarded a ship to the United States to become a research fellow. In 1941, he married Betty Mayo, a Radcliffe student; she is his only survivor.
 At Harvard, he became an assistant to Manley O. Hudson, a judge on the Permanent Court of International Justice at the Hague, which was established by the League of Nations but suspended during the war. Judge Hudson was the Bemis Professor of International Law at Harvard. Professor Sohn succeeded to the Bemis chair in 1961 and held it until 1981. 
 In the summer of 1945, Judge Hudson and his assistant traveled to San Francisco for the United Nations charter conference. There, they helped draft the statute establishing the International Court of Justice, or World Court, as the successor to the Permanent Court of International Justice.
 In an interview in 1977, Professor Sohn recalled how Harvard had asked him to teach a course on the United Nations after his return from the charter conference, ''because nobody else would teach anything so crazy.''
 In 1958, Professor Sohn was a co-author, with Grenville Clark, of ''World Peace Through World Law'' (Harvard University Press), which examined proposals to transform the United Nations into a world government. The book envisioned a time when the United Nations budget, then $55 million, would surpass $35 billion, with $25 billion set aside to mitigate ''the worst economic disparities between nations.''
 The authors also called for the elimination of all armaments in 12 years and envisioned that the United Nations would then have a monopoly on military force and would maintain a peace force of 400,000 soldiers. 
 In 1967, Professor Sohn wrote a report for a committee of international law experts, urging the United Nations to study the threat to individual freedom posed by computers, eavesdropping devices and genetic engineering. The report, submitted to the United Nations as part of the 20th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, said the concept of national data banks ''raises the specter of a government which knows all.'' 
 ''Arrangements have to be devised,'' it said, ''to control the precious few who run the machines, and on whose wisdom and impartiality the fate of mankind may depend.''
 In 1977, Professor Sohn was a delegate to a United Nations-sponsored conference that drafted the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which the General Assembly adopted in 1982.
 In 1981, after 35 years at Harvard, Professor Sohn accepted an invitation from Dean Rusk, who had been secretary of state under President John F. Kennedy, to join him in teaching international law at the University of Georgia.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis B. Sohn in 1977. (Photo by Neil Boenzi/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (91%); DEATHS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (54%); PNEUMONIA (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (52%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (73%); NETHERLANDS (52%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



485 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Escapes; Havens Paris; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: You'll Always Have Paris

BYLINE: By DEBORAH BALDWIN

 BODY:
PARIS does funny things to people. Imagine, for example, crawling off an airplane, making your way across the city with a bad case of jet lag and waking up the next day to find that you are the new owner of some stranger's apartment in the 17th Arrondissement.
 That would be where, exactly? And how much did it cost again?
"It happened so fast," said Deviyani Nautiyal, sounding surprised even several months later as she recounted a hunt that began at home, in front of a computer. "I can't believe we bought an apartment within four hours of landing." 
 She was on the phone in Rochester, Minn., where she and her husband, Sanjeev Sethi, a pathologist at the Mayo Clinic, normally live, an inconvenient 12 hours and two subway rides from their new second home.
 It's hard to get figures on how many Americans leave Paris with a souvenir in the form of a French mortgage. But the number is "mushrooming," according to Cecil Jones, president of Just France Sales, a property finders' service for those who speak English. (Incidentally, the number of agencies like his is mushrooming, too.) 
 Lured by such services, low interest rates and hopes that investing in French real estate is a smart way to diversify if the euro continues to strengthen Americans are scouring parts of Paris they barely knew five years ago. Consider the 17th, where Ms. Nautiyal, a lawyer, and Dr. Sethi found their 635-square-foot, one-bedroom, 375,000-euro (about $480,000) pied-a-terre in January. Indeed, you might consider it now, before the next wave of buyers spills over from the heavily touristed Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Arrondissements. 
 The 17th may have its funky stretches and seem a bit removed on the far Right Bank, but that's one reason it still has deals, making it the latest destination for Americans who long for a well-priced piece of Paris.
 Not long ago some of the same people might have focused on Left Bank addresses like the Rue Cler, a lively market street in the Seventh Arrondissement not far from the Eiffel Tower. Today there are so many Americans shopping on Rue Cler for their bread and French butter and their second homes that half the voices you hear have a familiar accent. 
 Ms. Nautiyal says that she sees the 17th as an antidote to "Leftitis," and financially, anyway, she is right: according to Paris Real Estate Finders, a search-and-buy service, which helped steer her and her husband across the Seine, the average asking price per square foot in the Rue Cler neighborhood topped $1,050 in May, in contrast to an average asking price in the 17th of $773. And the highly diverse 17th, at least for the moment, has far fewer people from back home.
 It also has patches that are not so wonderful the Avenue de Clichy comes to mind and some that are elegant indeed. C. Randolph Fishburn, a lawyer in New York who frequently works in Paris, paid 1.1 million euros last year for a central-casting two-bedroom, two-bathroom apartment on the stately Avenue de Wagram: 1,400 renovated square feet in a 19th-century building "across from the only 24-hour flower shop in Paris," he said. He added that the florist also stocks Champagne presumably in case of emergencies. Mr. Fishburn said he "realized the market is undervalued and I could do this as investment and a euro hedge." 
 Closing costs were high but carrying costs property taxes and maintenance fees are not, and his mortgage rate is below 4 percent. That's lower than this season's high heels.
 The 17th sits on the Right Bank like a big crooked wedge of pizza, its nose under the Arc de Triomphe and its crust overlapping the beltway that rims the western edge of the city. In the late 19th century, when Paris was expanding like a souffle, the far-flung 17th was a getaway for the world-weary. Zola retreated there to write (and gave his heroine Nana, an actress turned rich-man's mistress, a 17th Arrondissement address). Impressionists lived and worked there too, recording the train stations rising to the east, their tracks strewn in fistfuls in the 17th. As developers piled in, large apartments rose up to accommodate bourgeois families and well-kept Nanas. 
 Today the arrondissement is a patchwork of neighborhoods plain, fancy and iffy. Grand avenues like Wagram emanate from the Place d'Etoile like spokes in a wheel, and just below the 17th's southern border, in the fashionable Eighth, sits the seductive Parc Monceau. At the eastern edge is the mildly gamy Place de Clichy, to the north the villagelike area called Batignolles. Hidden throughout are quiet streets, green spaces and bargains.
 The Scene
 An infusion of young families is adding street life to some areas, and there's a pleasant hum around the Place des Ternes, said Francois Thomazeau, co-author of "The Authentic Bistros of Paris" (The Little Bookroom). "It's well, not trendy," he said of the 17th, "but interesting." 
 Think of it as the French equivalent of Murray Hill. But with more places to pause: the Square des Batignolles, for its benches, and bakeries like Laurent Connan (38, rue des Batignolles) and Franck Perotti (11, rue Flaubert), for their baguettes. 
 "It is a very community-oriented place," said Janet Rotner, who lives with her husband, Philip, a lawyer, in Chicago and found their 17th Arrondissement apartment in a classified ad in Le Figaro six years ago. During visits, "we go to the markets, we do some cooking, we bring home food from the traiteur," she said, evoking a common fantasy among those who hole up in tiny hotel rooms and are forced to eat out three times a day. 
 One sign of the arrondissement's health is its concentration of baby carriages and renovation construction cranes, said Darrell Halverson, who runs Paris Real Estate Finders with his wife, Stephanie Freedman. Favorite hunting grounds include the area around the Square des Batignolles, "where the streets are narrower and you have the feeling of being in a village, anchored by the park," Mr. Halverson said.
 Pros
 The 17th is calmer and less expensive than tourist-filled areas like the Marais and the fashionable Eighth. The Villiers Metro stop is served by two major lines, a big plus. Lively outdoor markets spring up at the Place de Levis and on the Rue Poncelet and the Boulevard des Batignolles.
 Parisian co-ops generally do not subject buyers to time-consuming scrutiny, and they generally tolerate the comings and goings of strangers, should one decide to make an apartment available to friends or to renters. 
 Cons
 It's easy to fall under the sway of the city and its boosters, some of whom flog Parisian properties as if they were a no-risk investment. The market is cooling off slightly and the euro, now trading at $1.29, could get stronger or weaker. Despite the assurances of some property agents, not all absentee owners have luck finding tourists to rent their apartments by the week, especially in the 17th. Carrying costs can be reasonable but inheritance taxes are high: some Americans arrange to have an heir's name on the deed. 
 The French do not have multiple listings, and many apartments are sold by owners, often through classified ads. Bargains go quickly. Sellers often take their kitchen appliances with them, a French custom, and long-distance renovations can be awkward. 
 The Batignolles area is a hike from stations served by a single line. Taxis can be hard to flag after midnight. 
 The Real Estate Market
 Parisians, like New Yorkers, are enjoying a boom (or bulle, as some French economists say), zealously tracking prices with the help of a trade group, the Society of Notaires, which gives square-meter sales prices in dozens of neighborhoods in racing-form style. For the 12 months ending in December 2005, prices were up 11.4 percent over 2004 around the Place des Ternes, and 16.7 percent around Batignolles. 
 Americans often turn to bilingual services like Paris Real Estate Finders (www.parisrealestatefinders.com), which not only sift through the offerings but also help buyers find the requisite notaire, or lawyer, line up a mortgage and survive a French closing. Paris Real Estate Finders scours the classifieds and other sources to find listings placed by owners and real estate agents and charges its clients a percentage of the purchase price. 
 Just France (www.justfrancesales.com), based in Berwyn, Pa., does this without charging a fee (it collects from the listing agent), and it also helps buyers rent out their apartments to tourists. French-owned services include My Home in Paris (www.myhomeinparis.com), and My Flat in Paris (www.myflatinparis.com), which sells apartments as investments and leases them back for three years for use as corporate rentals. 
 Paris Real Estate Finders's advantage is its constantly updated database, which is cross-indexed in multiple ways and has hundreds of listings throughout the city, many in the 17th. Clients fill out a short questionnaire (walk-up or elevator? what price range?) and while still in the United States receive listings that meet their criteria. The system saves time for all involved: clients like Mr. Fishburn and Ms. Nautiyal snap up the first apartments they see. 
 Mr. Halverson, who helpfully translates square meters and euros into terms Americans can understand, has calculated that in 2005 buyers paid an average of $726 a square foot in the 17th, in contrast to $976 in the Sixth.
 The most expensive arrondissement in 2005 was the Seventh, at $992 a square foot, he said, and this spring the average asking price in the Seventh's select Gros Caillou quartier is, as noted around Rue Cler, even higher.
 Once you get above $1,000, he said, you may as well buy in New York.
 Ms. Nautiyal, in Minnesota, said she and her husband had visited Paris together only once before they made the leap. They bought their apartment on his second trip to Paris (she had been there several times before).
 "It was a big risk and a crazy decision," she acknowledged. But it was in Paris, she explained, away from their busy everyday lives, that they realized how much "we enjoy walking and talking, which we don't have a chance to do most of the time." 
 "We couldn't bear to leave the place," she said. And so if all goes as planned, she said, they will be back again in Paris in August.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A vegetable market on the Rue Poncelet near the Place des Ternes in the 17th Arrondissement on the far Right Bank, where Americans are finding attractive properties at attractive prices. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)
(Photo by The New York Times)
(Map by The New York Times)
HIGH WINDOWS - A balcony on the Rue Nollet in Batignolles. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)
URBAN GREENERY - The tranquil Parc Monceau, which is on the edge of the 17th Arrondissement. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)
 The Rotners' apartment. (Photo by Just France)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (56%) MINNESOTA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2006



486 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Looks Into Airline Price-Fixing 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, June 22 

 BODY:
British and United States agencies are investigating a possible conspiracy to illegally fix the amounts of fuel surcharges imposed on passengers on long-distance flights to and from Britain.
 Most major airlines flying between the United States and Heathrow, London's main international airport, charge passengers about $:35 ($64) each way in fuel surcharges.
The Justice Department and the Office of Fair Trade in Britain have contacted British Airways, Virgin Atlantic Airways, United Airlines and American Airlines and may be talking to others in connection with the investigation. Violation of price-fixing laws could carry civil and criminal penalties. 
 The Office of Fair Trade announced the investigation on Thursday but said that it was ''at an early stage'' and that ''no assumption should be made that there has been an infringement of competition law.'' 
 Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said, ''The antitrust division is investigating the possibility of anticompetitive practices involving surcharges and rates for passenger fares and air cargo shipments.''
 British Airways confirmed the investigation and said it was cooperating. The airline also said that its commercial director, Martin George, and its head of communications, Iain Burns, had been given leaves of absence during the investigation but did not elaborate. 
 American Airlines, a unit of AMR, said it had received a ''federal grand jury subpoena in connection with a government investigation into alleged price-fixing in the air passenger industry'' but said it was not the target of the inquiry. 
 United Airlines, owned by UAL, said it had received an inquiry and was cooperating with investigators but that it also was not a target. Virgin Atlantic said it was ''aware of the investigation'' and was ''assisting.'' 
 Airlines, struggling to make profits because of high oil prices, have been adding fuel surcharges to passenger tickets in recent years. The price of jet fuel has increased 21.3 percent over the last year, the International Air Transport Association said on June 16. 
 So far in 2006, the fuel bill for airlines is estimated to be $22 billion higher than it was last year, the association said, and double what it was in 2004. 
 Consumer advocates say fuel surcharges can be a deceptive way for airlines to increase their fares beyond what they are paying for fuel. 
 Price-fixing occurs when companies combine or conspire to raise, lower or stabilize prices. Officials would need concrete evidence that airlines discussed keeping their fuel surcharges at a similar level to prove price-fixing. 
 Fuel surcharges for some large airlines that fly between the United States and Britain are similar. In April, British Airways increased the fuel surcharge for its long-haul flights to $:35, a $:5 increase, for each one-way ticket. Virgin Atlantic's fuel surcharge for flights in and out of Britain is also $:35 each way. 
 United Airlines' fuel surcharges from Britain vary from flight to flight and by day, a reservation agent said. 
 A one-way flight to Kennedy International Airport in New York on July 6 carries a $:37 fuel surcharge, for example. American Airlines charges $:37 in fuel surcharges each way between Britain and the United States. 
 Continental Airlines, which said it had not been contacted in the investigation, charges a $:37.50 fuel surcharge for each flight in and out of Britain. 
 Though the surcharges seem high to many passengers, industry groups say they are still not enough to cover the cost of fuel increases. In 2005, ''only 50 percent of the increase in fuel charges was passed through'' into higher ticket prices, said Brian Pearce, chief economist for the transport association. 
 Airlines made up the difference by cutting costs, including increasing their self-service check-in and online ticketing facilities to trim labor costs.
 Established carriers like British Airways and American Airlines have been losing customers on short-haul flights to new, cheaper upstarts like EasyJet and Ryanair in Europe, putting even more pressure on them to make up the difference in long-distance air fares. 
 The European Commission, which started an air cargo price-fixing investigation earlier this year with the Justice Department, said it was not involved in this investigation.


GRAPHIC: Photo: British Airways said it was cooperating with a price-fixing investigation and had given two executives leaves of absence during the inquiry. (Photo by Alan Weller/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (93%); PRICE FIXING (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); CARTELS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JET FUEL (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); SUBPOENAS (73%); AIR FREIGHT (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (93%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



487 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Coalition Emerges in Ukraine, But So Do the Tensions

BYLINE: COMPILED by JAMES K. PHILIPS

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers appears Monday through Friday.
 TODAY'S TOP STORIES
The announcement on Thursday of the reformation of an Orange Coalition in the Ukrainian parliament, after nearly three months of negotiations, was widely discussed throughout the Russian press. The coalition, made up of Yulia V. Tymoshenko's bloc, the Socialist Party, and President Viktor A. Yushchenko's Our Ukraine, will apparently be headed by Ms. Tymoshenko, who is slated to return to office as prime minister. Her stated plans to revisit the gas deal struck by Ukraine and Russia early this year were met with a warning by Gazprom that carrying out her threats would be "a path to a new gas crisis."
 Rossiskaya Gazeta highlights tensions within the new coalition, which it said "is called democratic, but its elements do not welcome even the closest of associates" of the president. The paper reported that Ms. Tymoshenko hailed the nomination of Petro O. Poroshenko, a rival of hers, as speaker of the parliament while pointing out her earlier statements accusing him of being the "chief corrupt official in Ukraine." 
 Nezavisimaya Gazeta attributes Mr. Poroshenko's nomination to Mr. Yushchenko's desire to counter Ms. Tymoshenko by "using a personality with as much charisma." "Within the very format of the coalition lies conflict, which condemns it to mutual destruction," the paper writes. Victor F. Yanukovich's Party of the Regions, now in opposition, may find that this inherent conflict can be used to its benefit in the future.
 Kommersant reports that the "Tymoshenko factor" may well shape foreign relations despite the fact that the President retains the right to appoint the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Her announcement that she would review Ukraine's gas agreement with Russia is evidence, according to Kommersant, that she intends "to play an independent role in Ukrainian politics, even if that role is contrary to the will of President Yushchenko."
 While Mr. Tymoshenko would control economic affairs, Mr. Yushchenko retains control of internal security, foreign affairs and defense. Kommersant therefore concludes that Ukraine's orientation toward Europe "should remain unchanged." Izvestia, however, sees western influence as overbearing. The paper quotes analysts blaming the delay in forming a coalition on American interference. "American 'middlemen' in some cases try to dictate the rules of the game," the paper says, portraying Ukraine's political arena as a "Russian-American duel."
 Konstantin Bondarenko, director of the Ukrainian Institute for Administrative Problems, told Vedomosti, "Mutual mistrust and past offenses will lower the stability of the new coalition." He predicted that Ukraine's new government would not last past this fall.
 IN OTHER NEWS
 KOMMERSANT
 ACCESS MAY BE CLOSING: The pro-Kremlin United Russia party published a letter to parliamentary leaders on its Web site signed by 13 governors, 11 of whom sit on the party's governing council. The letter calls on parliamentary leaders to "close off access to public life" by extremists and "those who support them." While the definition of an "extremist" in Russian politics has yet to be clarified, the letter mentions Russian politicians Edward Lemonov, leader of the National Bolshevik Party, and Dmitri Rogozin, head of the nationalist Rodina party. Others mentioned in the letter include the oligarchs Leonid Nevzlin, Boris Berezovsky, and Vladimir Gusinsky. 
 NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA
 BUSH IN BUDAPEST A SIGNAL FOR ST. PETERSBURG?: President Bush's visit to Budapest commemorating the 50th anniversary of the 1956 Hungarian uprising is seen as a critique of Russia ahead of the Group of Eight meeting in St. Petersburg next month. Nezavisimaya Gazeta views Mr. Bush's remarks in Budapest as a signal "testifying to Washington's dissatisfaction with both the internal and foreign policy of the Russian Federation." 
 Although no official explanation was given, the fact that Mr. Bush's visit to Budapest came four months before the actual date of the anniversary may, Nezavisimaya Gazeta suggests, point to the desire of his administration to remind the leaders of the developed world about significance of freedom and democracy in American policy ahead of the July summit. 
 VEDOMISTI
 WITHOUT LABOR AND CONSEQUENCE: Beginning next year, judges will be obligated to disclose their income and make the information public. Russia's supreme court on Thursday met and accepted changes to the law "On the Status of Judges" and handed the changes for approval to the parliament. Judges will have to fill out a five-page document disclosing their income and make this document available to the press. These documents will then be verified by higher judges. Mikhail Fedotov, a critic of the legislation, said the reform instituted "complete openness, but only for the state, not for society."
 IZVESTIA
 FIGHT WITH FASCISMON TWO FRONTS?: The press conference announcing "Our Russia," an organization dedicated to fighting xenophobia, racism, and nationalism, was held in Moscow Thursday. The idea for the organization was put forth at a conference of democratic forces a few months ago and includes nine members of the public chamber. Among the members are representatives of various religious organizations and the human rights community. The emergence of United Russia-sponsored "Our Russia" has prompted the appearance of other organizations including the "Russian Antifascist Front," sponsored by Yabloko, Union of Right Forces, the Popular Democratic Union, and the Moscow Helsinki Group. Critics claim that these organizations exist for parties to exploit the current debate in Russia over political extremism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CORRUPTION (67%); WEB SITES (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (70%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (70%); GAZP (RTS) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (89%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



488 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Data Suggests the Economy Is Gearing Down

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Index of Leading Economic Indicators slipped in May, the Conference Board said yesterday, suggesting that the nation's economy is likely to cool in the coming months.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said that the number of Americans filing claims for unemployment benefits climbed by the largest amount in five weeks. 
''The two releases together suggest that the economy is currently enjoying sturdy growth, but growth is slowing, and will slow further in the months and year ahead,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.
 The Conference Board, an industry-backed research group, said its leading indicators index fell 0.6 percent in May, to 137.9, after a decline of 0.1 percent in April, to 138.7. The May figure was in line with what analysts expected.
 The index is watched closely because it is intended to predict economic activity three to six months in the future.
 It was the index's third decline in six months, and the lowest figure since a reading of 136.9 in October. The drop in the index comes as gasoline prices are high, interest rates are rising, and the home sales market has turned tepid.
 ''It does serve to confirm that the economy is slowing. That's something that should come as no surprise, but we had some conflicting numbers earlier this week,'' said Mark Vitner, senior economist at the Wachovia Corporation. He said that Tuesday's housing construction figures from the Commerce Department gave some market watchers a false sense of optimism. The department reported that builders started construction at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.957 million units last month, a better-than-expected 5 percent gain from April when construction had fallen 5.5 percent.
 Seven out of the 10 indicators in the leading index declined in May. The biggest negative contributor was average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance, followed by consumer expectations, real money supply, average weekly manufacturing hours, building permits, stock prices and vendor performance.
 Three indicators improved in May: manufacturers' new orders for nondefense capital goods, manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and materials, and interest rate spread.
 Over the last six months, the biggest negative contributor to the leading index's drop has been declining housing permits.
 The Labor Department's report showed that 308,000 people filed for jobless benefits last week, a bigger-than-expected rise of 11,000 from the previous week.
 ''They're still relatively low,'' Mr. Vitner of Wachovia said, adding that he expected to see seasonal increases in jobless claims going into the summer, as well as some modest climbs later in the year as the economy slows.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Leading Indicators''An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
1996=100.May: -0.6%April: -0.1March: +0.4(Source by The Conference Board)Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average.(Source by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); STATISTICS (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



489 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Atlanta Fed President to Retire After 42 Years With the Bank

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Jack Guynn, said Thursday that he would retire on Oct. 1 after 42 years at the bank and 10 years at its helm. 
 Mr. Guynn, 63, is a voting member this year of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed committee that sets interest rates, and has been seen by some as relatively hawkish on the need for further policy tightening to keep inflation at bay.
His decision to retire creates a third vacancy on the committee. The Fed said Wednesday that another governor, Mark W. Olson, would step down June 30, after accepting a job as chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The Fed has yet to fill the slot created by the departure of the vice chairman, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., in April. Both Mr. Olson and Mr. Ferguson were voting members.
 The Atlanta Fed said Mr. Guynn was stepping down to spend more time on community and civic work, as well as to devote more energy to his recovery and rehabilitation from a series of recent arthritis-related operations. 
 The first vice president at the Atlanta Fed, Patrick K. Barron, will assume Mr. Guynn's responsibilities on an interim basis Oct. 1 while a search is conducted for a new president, the bank said in a statement.
 Mr. Guynn took over on Jan. 1, 1996, after 12 years as the Atlanta Fed's first vice president, succeeding Robert P. Forrestal..
 Mr. Guynn, who is scheduled to take part in three more policy meetings before Oct. 1, never dissented in a board vote. But he made repeated warnings about speculative pressures in the housing market in 2004, before the Fed began raising rates in June from 1 percent, and was consistently stern about the dangers of letting inflation get out of hand.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Guynn has been president of the Atlanta Fed for 10 years. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ACCOUNTING (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (94%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (94%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (94%)

PERSON: ROGER W FERGUSON JR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



490 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Drilling Firm Seeks Favor As Expatriate

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
The language in the House measure seems innocuous enough. Tucked into the Coast Guard budget bill, it says merely that Section 608 ( c ) (1) ''is amended by striking the second sentence.''
 But what that language would do is allow one company, Nabors Industries, to gain permanent access to business open only to American companies. The language is needed because Nabors, a big oil drilling company, moved its tax headquarters to Bermuda and its legal headquarters to Barbados in 2001 to avoid American taxes.
Competitors argue that they will be slowly strangled if Nabors is allowed to vie for contracts while paying little in taxes. Nabors is a well-run company, said Ken Wells, president of the Offshore Marine Service Association, and its tax advantages allow it to underbid other offshore supply companies. The association, therefore, opposes the provision as a favor to one of its 101 members at the expense of the others, Mr. Wells said. 
 Two years ago, after extensive negotiations with its competitors, Nabors won from Congress what amounted to a temporary exemption that ends in August 2007. So now the company's chief executive, Eugene M. Isenberg, is asking Congress to make the exemption permanent. Kenneth J. Kies, the most influential tax lobbyist in town, has been making the case for Nabors, and he confirmed that only Nabors would benefit from deleting the sentence.
 The House Transportation Committee is scheduled to vote on the Coast Guard budget next Wednesday. The Senate has not scheduled a vote.
 Nabors owns 33 ships, most of them 166 to 220 feet long, all with wide berths, that ferry drilling mud, drilling pipe and drill bits, along with people and food, from shore to the hundreds of oil rigs and platforms in the rich waters between Texas and Florida. 
 With the damage to oil rigs, platforms and sea floor pipelines from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and growing world demand pushing up prices for oil and natural gas, the demand for these ships has soared. Their fees have risen in tandem. 
 Deleting that one sentence from the Coast Guard budget law amounts to giving Nabors Industries a permanent waiver from the Jones Act, a law enacted in 1920 that was intended to protect national security. The Jones Act requires that all ships moving people and cargo between domestic ports be American-owned, American-built and sailed by American crews. 
 Since Nabors gave up its status as an American company in December 2001, it has been fighting to keep operating its ships in the domestic supply trade. 
 Nabors moved its tax headquarters to Bermuda in 2001, although its working headquarters remained in Houston. The move allowed it to convert what would otherwise be taxable profits in the United States into tax-deductible business expenses. 
 When Nabors and some other companies, including Ingersoll Rand and TransOcean, did this starting in 2001, it set off a fierce debate in Congress with both parties promising voters to crack down on what were called ''Benedict Arnold companies.''
 Congress ended up passing a law before the fall elections in 2002 that bars companies that moved their tax headquarters to tax havens from getting government contracts. But the law opened a loophole, allowing American subsidiaries of these companies to get government contracts.
 Nabors reported earning $428.4 million in profits in the United States last year. At the average tax rate actually paid by large American companies, Nabors would have owed about $86 million in taxes. Nabors told its shareholders that it paid less than $6 million. It paid $60.8 million in taxes to the federal government in 2001, the last year it was an American company.
 This year, Nabors expects a much bigger American tax bill, more than $100 million, according to Mr. Kies, because Nabors's profits are so big this year.
 ''Even if they weren't paying any tax,'' Mr. Kies said, ''they operated in, and structured themselves, in reliance on the law, followed the rules exactly as they were written'' to become a Bermuda company and still comply with the Jones Act.
 ''As a matter of policy it just doesn't make any sense to change the rules after the fact,'' he added. ''It is wrong to make a change after people have invested substantial amounts of money in reliance of current law.'' 
 Mr. Wells of the Offshore Marine Service Association and others said that Nabors knew full well when it chose to leave the United States for tax purposes that it would not be in compliance with the Jones Act. 
 ''What has our other members up in arms,'' Mr. Wells said, ''is the erosion of the Jones Act, which determines the value of their companies.'' 
 Mr. Wells pulled out his leather-bound appointments book and drew a series of waves, saying they marked the economic cycles in which supply ship owners struggled through low years to make profits in high ones like 2006. 
 Then he drew another set off waves, with longer troughs and lower crests. Offshore oil rigs operate worldwide, he said, and if the Jones Act protections are thrown out, ''the peak years won't produce enough profit to get our members through the low years.'' 
 In time, he said, the oil rig and platform supply ships will, like those in global trade, all be built and owned by foreigners and have foreign crews. 
 The Marine Cabotage Task Force, which represents 400 shipyards, labor unions and military contractors, called the Nabors legislation a ''very dangerous loophole.'' Representative Gene Taylor, a Mississippi Democrat who for years has complained about official favors for Nabors, said at the House subcommittee hearing on Tuesday that Nabors deserved no favors from Congress because it chose to become a Bermuda company. He offered a prediction of what would happen if Nabors succeeded.
 ''Every time you grant a Jones Act waiver,'' Mr. Taylor said, ''10 more guys want one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ADMIRALTY LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); TAX LAW (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD (58%)

TICKER: NBR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (58%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (58%)

PERSON: JAMES M WELLS III (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); BERMUDA (92%); BARBADOS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



491 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: On Eve of Meeting, World Trade Chief Turns Optimistic About a Deal

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 22 

 BODY:
A month after he warned that the five-year negotiations for a global trade agreement were in the ''red zone,'' the head of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, said Thursday that he had grown considerably more optimistic about the odds of a deal.
 Trade ministers are meeting next week in Geneva to try to revive the talks, known as the Doha Development Round. After missing repeated deadlines, the negotiations have looked increasingly hopeless. 
But in a conference call with journalists, Mr. Lamy said, ''We are much nearer to an agreement than ever before.''
 He attributed his confidence to a change in the tone of the United States, which had seemed less engaged in trade after it moved its chief trade negotiator, Rob Portman, to the White House budget office.
 On Wednesday, President Bush said in Vienna that he was committed to reaching an agreement, though he acknowledged that differences remained between the United States, the European Union and developing countries on new trade rules for agriculture and industrial goods.
 ''The point is, we're committed to a successful round,'' Mr. Bush said at a news conference after meeting with the president of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso. ''My view is, is that we can't let this round fail. A failed W.T.O. round would be a missed opportunity.''
 While it was not clear whether the United States planned to make any new proposals next week, Mr. Lamy said Mr. Bush's words suggested that Washington was open to a compromise. The European Union and a group of 20 developing countries also appear ready to give ground, he noted.
 ''Until yesterday, the U.S. side of the triangle had remained locked,'' Mr. Lamy said. ''The good news yesterday was that suggestions of flexibility were given by the U.S., notably by Bush.''
 An industry publication, Inside U.S. Trade, reported Wednesday that the United States was prepared to scale back its demand for deep cuts in agricultural tariffs. It also said Washington was willing to make some additional concessions in the subsidies it pays to American farmers.
 But the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, denied that the Bush administration was planning to soften its position on either tariffs or subsidies. Speaking to reporters in Washington, Ms. Schwab said she had not signaled new flexibility in a meeting on Monday with the European Union's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson.
 A spokeswoman for Ms. Schwab, Neena Moorjani, noted that the existing American proposal, which calls for an average cut of 66 percent in tariffs, was not a ''take it or leave it'' offer.
 ''We could adjust it based on the level of ambition we saw in proposals from other countries,'' Ms. Moorjani said. ''Nine months later, we are still waiting for these ambitious proposals.''
 Mr. Lamy has encouraged the United States and the European Union to move toward a proposal by the developing countries to cut agricultural tariffs by a minimum average of 54 percent. 
 Trade ministers have only a few weeks to resolve these issues and still complete a deal by the end of the year. A comprehensive agreement on trade rules has to be reached by then so that President Bush can submit it to Congress before his special negotiating authority expires.
 Mr. Lamy acknowledged that persuading Congress to accept more cuts in farm subsidies would be difficult. ''The question is whether a reformed farm bill can make it through Congress,'' he said.
 Some critics said they were pessimistic a deal would be reached. ''It's difficult to see this working,'' Celine Charveriat, a trade lobbyist at the British charity Oxfam, said in a statement. ''The E.U. and U.S. have failed so far to seize the political initiative, and this is reflected in the lack of any agreement.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy, head of the World Trade Organization, said the United States is becoming more committed to a global trade agreement. (Photo by Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); WRITERS (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); BUDGETS (68%); AGRICULTURE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PETER MANDELSON (58%); ROB PORTMAN (53%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



492 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: After Writer and King Nudge, Abbas and Olmert Talk

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: PETRA, Jordan, June 22 

 BODY:
The Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, and Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel held informal and inconclusive talks over breakfast here on Thursday, their first meeting since Mr. Olmert became prime minister.
 They embraced and promised to accelerate preparations for a substantive meeting in the next few weeks, both men said afterward.
 Their reluctant meeting was orchestrated by King Abdullah II of Jordan and Elie Wiesel, the writer and winner of the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize, at the conference of Nobel laureates that the two sponsored here. 
 ''I think we pushed them to get moving,'' Mr. Wiesel said. ''They didn't want to meet at all. They were talking about meeting sometime, but nothing was happening, and I was afraid the stalemate would continue.'' He said the two leaders, after being pressed at the breakfast table by King Abdullah and himself, agreed to accelerate serious planning on an agenda for a meeting soon.
 Mr. Olmert said during a discussion with Mr. Wiesel and the laureates after the breakfast, ''We decided we will meet in a matter of a few weeks, and this will not be the only meeting.'' 
 Mr. Abbas, who appeared on a similar panel on Wednesday, told reporters as he left Petra, ''There is an intention to prepare for our forthcoming meeting as of next week.''
 Neither the Israelis nor the Palestinians wanted a rushed meeting that ''would produce no concrete agreements and could worsen the situation,'' said the Israeli deputy prime minister, Shimon Peres, who also attended the breakfast. ''We have to see what happens on the Palestinian side,'' he added, noting the clashes between Hamas and Mr. Abbas's Fatah movement and their efforts to negotiate a common political platform.
 An aide to Mr. Abbas, Nabil Abu Rudeineh, said: ''This is just a protocol meeting. The meeting we want is one that should be prepared very well to reach some kind of an agreement,'' like that reached in Egypt in February 2005 with Ariel Sharon, then the prime minister of Israel.
 But Mr. Olmert made it clear on Thursday that substantive negotiations on a final peace agreement could not take place while Hamas, considered a terrorist group by Israel, the United States and the European Union, remains in control of the Palestinian Authority, which Mr. Abbas, as president, formally leads. ''So long as political power rests with terrorists, how shall we negotiate with them seriously?'' Mr. Olmert said.
 He praised Mr. Abbas as sincere, but said Israel had conditions before opening such negotiations. He said that there were ''three, nonnegotiable conditions'' that the leaders of the United States, France and Britain also supported: ''total disarmament of terrorist organizations and total cessation of violence, full implementation of agreements and recognition of Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state.''
 He added, ''The difficulty of engaging in actual negotiations depends on this.''
 Mr. Olmert vowed ''to put everything on the line for peace'' and make ''painful concessions,'' as he said Mr. Sharon had done. But his aides say that Israel is not optimistic about negotiations, and that it continues to plan for a unilateral withdrawal of thousands of Israeli settlers from the West Bank to what would become Israel's borders.
 In a statement, Hamas said Mr. Abbas should not have met Mr. Olmert ''amid the continuing Palestinian blood of Zionist massacres.'' 
 Mr. Abbas emphasized Wednesday that the Palestinians would never accept borders imposed by Israel and that they would insist on a state within pre-1967 boundaries. He said Israeli unilateralism would lead to further conflict. ''We may not have the power to prevent this, but we have the will to say no,'' he said. 
 Mr. Olmert said, ''I am ready to go all along the way to make compromises and pull out of territory, something you would not expect an Israeli prime minister to say in an Arab country openly and publicly.'' But he said that Israel would not return to its pre-1967 boundaries.
 He apologized for the deaths of Palestinian civilians in Israeli military efforts to stop the firing of Qassam rockets from Gaza into Israel. More than 150 of the rockets have been fired in the last two weeks. 
 ''I feel deep regret for the death of innocent Palestinians,'' he said. ''It is against our policy, and I am very, very sorry,'' he added, while praising the Israeli Army as ''the most decent and restrained army in the world.'' 
 An Israeli airstrike in the central Gaza Strip on Wednesday hit a house instead of a vehicle carrying militants that was the target, Israel reported. A man and a woman were killed, a 1-year-old child was critically injured, and 2 other children were among 15 wounded civilians.
 Over the past eight days, 14 Palestinian civilians, including 5 children, have been killed by Israeli aerial attacks in Gaza, prompting an internal Israeli review.
 The total does not include eight civilians who died last Friday on a beach in Gaza from an explosion that Israel said was not from any shell it fired that day. Since then, however, Israel has halted, at least temporarily, its artillery fire into Gaza. 
 In Petra, the conference of 25 Nobel laureates and other distinguished participants decided to work toward declaring suicide bombings a ''crime against humanity'' and to support European efforts for a temporary mechanism to aid ordinary Palestinians.
 The laureates also pressed for investment in technology to produce cheaper vaccines faster, and supported access to antimalaria drugs and mosquito nets for the poor.
 In a group on nonproliferation that focused on Iran, the laureates pressed for the United Nations Security Council to act more strongly against states that withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty after being found in noncompliance with treaty obligations, and to work for a reliable, economical supply of enriched fuel to ''responsible states'' in lieu of building uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing facilities of their own.


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Ehud Olmert, the Israeli premier
Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president
 and King Abdullah II of Jordan yesterday. (Photo by Youssef Allan/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AL FATAH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (93%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (91%); SHIMON PERES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); JORDAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



493 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Unions Seek Joint Bargaining With City

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Sixteen labor unions that represent about half of New York City's municipal work force have formed a coalition to bargain on wages and benefits, a move intended to strengthen their leverage and speed negotiations. 
 But the city's labor commissioner said last night that he might not negotiate with such a coalition, partly because the unions are covered by different laws.
The unions, which plan to announce their coalition today, include the United Federation of Teachers and unions representing the city's sanitation workers, middle managers, Housing Authority guards and community college professors. 
 Union leaders say the coalition aims to neutralize a strategy that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other mayors have used in the past -- to negotiate a contract with one union and then pressure others to follow that pattern.
 The unions formed the coalition after many labor leaders voiced unhappiness two years ago when Mr. Bloomberg negotiated a pattern-setting contract with District Council 37, the largest municipal union, that called for a one-year wage freeze and other concessions.
 A major shortcoming of the coalition, union leaders acknowledge, is that District Council 37 has refused to join, but they still hope it will. The police and fire unions have also refused to join, traditionally taking the position that with the prestige and public support they enjoy, they can strike a better deal on their own. 
 ''It's better to be in a coalition because that way everybody has a say in the final agreement, rather than be stuck with a pattern,'' said the president of one union in the coalition, Carl Haynes of Teamsters Local 237, which represents 24,000 employees working for the city, its public hospitals and its housing authority. ''The way the city is operating they would like to pick off one union and apply the pattern. This coalition should help inoculate us against that.''
 The city's labor commissioner, James F. Hanley, said he was unsure that he would bargain with the coalition, sounding offended that union leaders had not told him of their plans.
 ''This is the first official notice I have of it,'' he said in an interview late yesterday. ''I'm not sure how to approach it. I have to know exactly what it looks like, what it sounds like and what the ground rules are.''
 He said joint bargaining would be difficult, if not impossible, because not all coalition members -- like City University professors and nurses in public hospitals -- are covered by same laws.
 ''Some of these people are not city employees,'' Mr. Hanley said. ''Some things you cannot bargain in this kind of forum.''
 Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union, said many union leaders felt urgency to form a coalition because the Bloomberg administration was seeking far-reaching concessions on health benefits and pensions. She has long argued that the city should negotiate such far-reaching changes with all municipal unions, not just one union. 
 She held out hope that District Council 37 would join the coalition, which includes about 180,000 workers. 
 ''It would be terrific if D.C. 37 joins us,'' Ms. Weingarten said. ''It would show how unified the municipal work force is. It would send the message that the city can't divide us any longer.''
 Rudy Orozco, a district council spokesman, said, ''At this time, D.C. 37 is in bargaining with the City of New York, so a coalition would not be appropriate.''
 The coalition is partly a response to widespread grumbling among municipal workers that their wages have hardly kept up with inflation in recent years. 
 Forming the coalition involves some complex union calculations. Many smaller unions want to piggyback on the mighty teachers' union, which bargains for 80,000 teachers. And the teachers' union sees advantages to bargaining alongside smaller unions, trying to avoid having the city pick one of them to set a pattern.
 Harry Nespoli, president of the union representing 6,500 sanitation workers, said he hoped that joining the coalition would make it less likely that unions have to wait years after their contract expires to negotiate a new one.
 ''The advantage is that we hopefully can get a contract for our members on time,'' said Mr. Nespoli, who negotiated his current contract nearly three years after the previous one expired. ''Many members had to wait a long time for their money, and our families have to eat every day.''
 Explaining his union's decision not to join, Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said, ''Coalition bargaining is fine for unions that have similar needs.'' But he asserted that his union was in a different situation because the city's police officers were not receiving salaries comparable to their counterparts in nearby cities and suburbs. 
 ''Given that inequity and the worsening recruitment and retention problem, we believe that we have a unique set of circumstances that would not be well represented in coalition bargaining,'' Mr. Lynch said.
 The coalition will have five co-chairmen. Approving a proposal will require support of three of the co-chairmen as well as two-thirds of the unions in the coalition.
 Nearly taunting the unions, Mr. Hanley said that the first time the city's municipal unions formed a bargaining coalition was to negotiate wage concessions during the 1975 fiscal crisis.
 ''I wonder if that's what they want to talk about here,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HOSPITALS (86%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (73%); NURSES & NURSING (70%) Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Law and Legislation 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%) District Council 37

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Steven Greenhouse; James F Hanley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



494 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Bush Sees Iraq Echo in '56 Hungary Revolt

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, June 22 

 BODY:
Fifty years after Hungarian partisans waged a bloody but unsuccessful uprising against Communist rule, President Bush came to this eastern European capital on Thursday to lay a bouquet at the eternal flame monument, but also to draw a parallel to the war in Iraq. 
 ''The sacrifice of the Hungarian people inspires all who love liberty,'' Mr. Bush said in a speech at Buda Castle on Gellert Hill, overlooking the Danube River and the city. ''America honors your courage,'' he continued. ''We've learned from your example, and we resolve that when people stand up for their freedom, America will stand with them.'' 
 On a day when lawmakers in Washington were engaged in an intense debate over whether to withdraw troops from Iraq, Mr. Bush thanked the Hungarians for ''playing a vital role'' in Operation Iraqi Freedom, neglecting to mention that Hungary withdrew its own troops more than a year ago. The president also recounted his visit last week to Baghdad, telling Hungarians that they would ''recognize this spirit'' of democracy there. 
 ''The lesson of the Hungarian experience is clear,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Liberty can be delayed, but it cannot be denied.''
 Mr. Bush's hillside speech concluded a two-day European trip aimed at promoting trans-Atlantic unity at a time when the United States and Europe were joined in a new cooperative effort to persuade Iran to suspend enrichment of uranium. On Thursday, the president's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, suggested a deadline of next month for Iran to respond to the American-European offer of economic incentives.
 Iran has said it would reply to the offer by late August, but Mr. Hadley said Iran should instead respond by the time leaders of the so-called Group of 8 nations meet in St. Petersburg, Russia, in mid-July. On Wednesday in Vienna, Mr. Bush said simply that Iran's time frame for responding seemed like ''an awful long time'' to wait.
 Speaking in Budapest to reporters, Mr. Hadley said: ''It would be helpful and useful if we could get a response and know where the Iranians are before those meetings. It would advance the negotiating process.''
 Mr. Bush came to Budapest more than a month after Vice President Dick Cheney made a speech in Lithuania, accusing Russia of using its energy resources to blackmail Europe, which irritated the Kremlin. But the president carefully avoided any public mention of modern Russia on Thursday, instead sticking to graphic descriptions of Soviet tanks rolling into Budapest to crush the Hungarian uprising.
 Mr. Hadley said that Mr. Bush's private discussions with Hungarian leaders included some discussion about Russia and the recent visit to Hungary by Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Hadley said the discussion also covered ''how we could reassure Russia that promoting democracy and freedom, not only within Russia but among Russia's neighbors, is not some kind of effort to encircle Russia, but is, in fact, a good thing for Russia, because democratic states make good and peaceful neighbors.''
 Mr. Bush's visit here was largely ceremonial, with themes of freedom and democracy sprinkled throughout. He toured the Parliament, a vast and elaborate 691-room Gothic structure that houses the Holy Crown of St. Stephen, a symbol of Hungarian independence, in a large glass case. 
 The 1,000-year-old crown, a gift from Pope Sylvester II to King Stephen of Hungary, is also a symbol of Hungarian-American relations. During World War II, it was spirited out of Hungary to the United States for safekeeping, and was held at Fort Knox. It remained in American hands until 1978, when President Jimmy Carter made a controversial decision to return it.
 ''It's a grand reminder of the great history of Hungary,'' Mr. Bush said.
 In a silent moment, the president, joined by the first lady, Laura Bush, placed a bouquet of white lilies and purple orchids, bound by a red, white and blue ribbon, at the black granite monument, capped by an eternal flame, honoring the victims of the 1956 revolt. As a trumpeter played, Mr. Bush bowed his head, as if in prayer.
 But tensions surfaced amid the pomp. Leaders in eastern Europe are pressing Mr. Bush for their countries to be included in a waiver program that allows foreigners to visit the United States for three months without a visa. European leaders are also urging Mr. Bush to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 Those tensions were evident in Budapest on Thursday as the Hungarian president, Laszlo Solyom, welcomed Mr. Bush to a gilded chamber in the Sandor Palace. In brief remarks, Mr. Solyom said Hungary's commitment to democracy was coupled with a respect for human rights -- a possible reference to Guantanamo.
 ''It is my firm belief that our common responsibilities, duty now is to fight terrorism,'' he said through an interpreter. ''This fight against terrorism can be successful only if every step and measure taken are in line with international law.''
 The visa issue came up during Mr. Bush's meeting with Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany. Though the prime minister pressed the president, Mr. Bush made clear it had not been resolved.
 ''I understand this is a difficult issue,'' Mr. Bush said.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about President Bush's visit to Budapest misidentified the location for his speech. It was outdoors on Gellert Hill, not at Buda Castle on Castle Hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Monuments and Memorials

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%) Group of Eight

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Stephen J Hadley; Laura Bush; Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) HUNGARY (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); LITHUANIA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%) Hungary; Iraq; Russia; Iran; Hungary

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006



495 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: It May Be Time To Put a Toe Into Stocks

BYLINE: By Conrad de Aenlle

 BODY:
A CHART of the stock market over the last couple of months may look like the glide path of a damaged jet, but one investment adviser says there is no need to panic, if only because so many other investors are worried already. 
 When people are nervous enough, it lengthens the chances of a rally, said Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup Investment Research. An indicator he devised to gauge investors' mood -- he calls it the panic/euphoria model -- is recording the sort of dread that typically signals a 20 percent jump in share prices within a year. 
 He makes a valuation case for stepping back into stocks, too, invoking yet another home-grown formula. The math is a bit complicated, but the idea is to assume that whatever companies earn today is all they are ever going to earn, year in and year out, then calculate how much they should fetch based on Treasury bond yields and a component representing the added risk of holding stocks instead of bonds. 
 The difference between the valuations they should carry in that theoretical zero-growth situation and their actual market valuations represents the amount of growth investors expect in the real world. 
 When he crunches the numbers, Mr. Levkovich finds growth expectations close to the low end of the historical range. He has taken monthly readings going back 45 years and found 80 instances in which they have been this low or lower. Six months and 12 months down the road, the market has been up every single time. 
 ''Stocks are at a level of valuation that at least since the 1960's has rewarded investors,'' Mr. Levkovich said. The average gain has been 20 percent within a year. This time around, Mr. Levkovich anticipates something closer to a 10 percent return in stocks over the next year.
 Mr. Levkovich cited a few developments that could sucker-punch investors, although he stressed he was not predicting them: avian flu could spread worldwide; Italy, which has reverted to the fiscal imprudence of a bygone era, could be forced to stop using the single European currency; and tensions between China and Taiwan could boil over. 
 So there is no need to become giddy over investors' excessive gloom and to abandon caution altogether. With that in mind, Mr. Levkovich is turning his attention to big companies that have big bank balances to match. Larger companies are considered safer and less speculative than small-capitalization issues, and a strong balance sheet provides an extra cushion should the economic or political backdrop turn ugly. 
 ''The leadership of the market is going to be large-cap, large-cash,'' he predicted. That is also the segment of the equity universe where value is concentrated, in his opinion. 
 Again it is a matter of sentiment. Investors have been seduced for years by smaller stocks, leaving shares of large businesses relatively friendless. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies carries a steep valuation premium to the Russell 200 index of larger companies, Mr. Levkovich pointed out. 
 Narrowing his focus further, he identified stocks that trade at very low multiples of operating profits and have little enough debt on their books that their earnings could cover their interest costs three times over. That combination gives them the ability to borrow large sums of money safely and return the proceeds to shareholders in the form of special dividends or stock buybacks.
 There are 43 such companies that are in a position to return at least half their market capitalization to investors. That means that they could pay a one-time 50 percent dividend and still leave shareholders with an investment in a healthy business. 
 The big names on the list that also have buy ratings from Citigroup analysts include several energy companies, notably Chevron, Occidental Petroleum, Marathon Oil, ConocoPhillips and Amerada Hess. Among buy-rated stocks in other industries are Alaska Air; Reynolds American, a tobacco producer; the engineering concern Cummins; the steel maker Nucor; and three home builders, Toll Brothers, Ryland Group and Meritage Homes. 
 ''What do I want to buy?'' Mr. Levkovich asked himself, answering with a rhetorical question. ''Should I be chasing stocks that are expensive and have already gone up -- or should I be buying stocks that are cheap, where people are capitulating and valuations are screaming and grabbing you by the shirt lapels?''
 His lapels may be fraying, not to mention his patience -- large-cap value stocks have been cheap for quite a while -- but with sentiment and valuation indicators so favorable for the market, he does not expect the wait to last much longer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); EURO (60%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (50%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Tobias M Levkovich; Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



496 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Opposition to Europe Patent Plan

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, June 23 

 BODY:
Industry groups representing some of the most innovative companies in Europe are urging the European Commission to abandon its promise earlier this year to make one final push to adopt a single patent regime for the 25 countries of the European Union. 
 The so-called community patent promises inventors a cheaper way of registering their inventions across the European Union, and more legal certainty for their patents. It is seen as a vital instrument to increase Europe's competitiveness with trading partners like the United States and Japan. 
It has been the aim of many politicians in Europe for more than three decades, but disputes over what language patent applications should be translated into have prevented progress.
 In January, the commission announced it was making one last effort to break the deadlock. It opened a consultation process with industry and other interested organizations and individuals that concludes in two weeks with a hearing in Brussels.
 But far from receiving support from industry, which has the most to gain from the community patent, three of the most influential industry lobby groups have advised the commission to drop the initiative for now and instead improve the existing patent regime run by the European Patent Office in Munich.
 Some fear a lobbying nightmare similar to the one they experienced last year when European politicians tried to pass a law on the ability to patent software-related inventions. 
 That debate was won by opponents who successfully convinced the European Parliament that the proposed law would stifle innovation by creating a legal minefield for software developers.
 ''To start a debate about the community patent now would be like opening a Pandora's box,'' said Francisco Mingorance, a European policy expert with the Business Software Alliance, an industry group that represents some of the largest technology companies in the world, including Microsoft.
 ''Looking at the debacle over the proposed law on computer-implemented inventions, a lot of companies fear this could happen all over again but on an even broader scale,'' Mr. Mingorance said.
 Similarly, the International Chamber of Commerce, a group of large companies, including Air Liquide of France, General Electric of the United States and GlaxoSmithKline of Britain, has urged the commission to back off from the patent project.
 ''A revisiting of substantive patent law in the context of the community patent is not warranted,'' it said in its submission to the commission.
 Others think that any compromise that suits all 25 countries in the European Union would be a bad foundation for the community patent. An agreement requires unanimous support from all the member states.
 ''No community patent would be better than a bad community patent,'' said Ilias Konteas, an adviser on intellectual property matters at UNICE, the federation of European employers, which represents most of the large companies in Europe. 
 In 2001, the commission proposed a text for a law that would allow for the creation of a community patent. It was hailed by many in industry as an enlightened piece of draft legislation but was changed substantially by national governments.
 The commission proposed that patents should be drafted in only three languages, rather than the 20 official languages of the European Union. This would drastically reduce the cost of obtaining patent protection across Europe. But the national governments scrapped the idea and returned to all official languages.
 UNICE, the software alliance and the International Chamber of Commerce all urge the commission to pursue two less ambitious courses of action being pushed by the European Patent Office. The first, known as the London Protocol, tries to overcome the burden of translation costs. 
 It would excuse countries with English, German or French as their official language from having to translate patents at all. Other countries would have to issue their patents in the local language, and either English, French or German.
 So far, France has failed to ratify this pact, effectively blocking it.
 A separate pact called the European Patent Litigation Agreement tries to create one legal system for all 31 countries that are members of the European Patent Office. It also has not been ratified.
 The European Commission supports the two initiatives pushed by the patent office. It views them as a useful step toward the creation of a community patent. 
 At the beginning of this year, Charlie McCreevy, the European commissioner in charge of the internal market, promised that he would not pass the community patent initiative on to his successor, as so many previous internal market commissioners have done.
 At a committee meeting in the European Parliament this week, he admitted defeat on the software patent initiative last year, saying he would leave that dossier for his successor. But he vowed to push ahead with the community patent project.
 ''Recognizing the economic importance of patents, I felt it was not a good thing to leave the entire patent agenda in limbo,'' he said.
 But showing the pragmatism he is renowned for, Mr. McCreevy left open the possibility of dropping the community patent and instead focusing on the two initiatives being pushed by the patent office.
 ''One thing is certain, progress in the patent field has to be made. Businessmen, faced with a 21st-century global economy, scratch their heads in disbelief when they see us stuck in discussions about language regimes and regional distribution of courts,'' he told members of the European Parliament.
 The existing system is complex and very expensive. After having a patent approved by the European Patent Office in Munich, inventors must then register the patent in every country where they want to protect it. Patent protection in all 25 countries in the Union currently costs around 60,000 euros. Having one so-called community patent would reduce that cost by around 60 percent to 22,000 euros to 23,000 euros, according to the commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (91%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); PATENT LAW (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (65%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (63%) Inventions and Patents; Lobbying and Lobbyists

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); AIR LIQUIDE SA (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION (82%); INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%) European Union; Business Software Alliance; International Chamber of Commerce; Unice (Org); European Patent Office

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); AI (PAR) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); GSK (NYSE) (52%); GSK (LSE) (52%); BIOC (EGX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (52%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Paul Meller

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



497 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SHORT CUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Balancing A Checkbook Isn't Calculus. It's Harder.

BYLINE: By Alina Tugend. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I KNOW I'll never do brain surgery. Or paint a masterpiece. Or win an Olympic medal. But it seems like balancing a checkbook should be within reach.
 Unfortunately, in our household, that feat seems as unattainable as ending up on the medals podium.
It is just addition and subtraction, right? My husband and I register all debits and credits. I go over the statement as soon as it arrives, tick off all the checks and see what is outstanding. And the balance is always out of whack. 
 We're not talking $25 to $50. It's often hundreds of dollars, and no matter how hard I look, I cannot figure out where we went wrong. It's like playing ''Where's Waldo?'' with no Waldo.
 Even though the imbalance is often in our favor, I inevitably end up frustrated, give up trying to find the errors, assume the bank is right and put down the balance that matches the bank minus outstanding credits and debits. Then I draw a heavy ink line under the final amount and hope that next time it will actually balance. 
 It is no use turning it over to my husband. Great as he is in so many ways, he seems to have the same deficient gene as I in the checkbook area. 
 So is there a solution? There is, but it is not your typical stern admonishment from consumer advocates about managing your money to that last penny.
 As Lewis Mandell, a professor of finance and managerial economics at the State University of New York at Buffalo, sees it: ''Some people don't need to balance their checkbooks. If they have sufficient assets and overdraft protection, there's no real need to worry about balancing their checkbook.''
 For those who have a pretty good idea of what is in their account and how much they spend every month, laboriously going through every statement can be just a waste of time, he said.
 ''Today's technology makes it so difficult,'' Professor Mandell said. Before direct deposits and, particularly, debit cards, checkbook records consisted pretty much of deposits, cash withdrawals and checks written for largish sums.
 Now, however, ''keeping track of what's in a checking account is virtually impossible,'' he said. Debits can be for such small amounts -- even McDonald's, for example, now encourages people to use their debit cards when paying for a meal -- that it is easy to lose track.
 ''In my case, my accounting system is pretty good, and I have a pretty good idea of where the balance should be,'' he said. ''I'm not a college student living down to my last nickel or getting hit by $30 or $50 in overdrawn check fees.''
 What surprised me was how few of my friends balanced their checkbooks. Many said they glanced at the statement but did not do much more. Even my father, who was my financial role model and who used to balance checkbooks to the penny, said that now he often waits two or three months before going over his statements.
 Like Professor Mandell, he has more of a financial cushion now than he did when he was raising three daughters.
 He is also convinced that banks very rarely make mistakes; if he is off $50 or $100, he figures he made the error.
 ''I'm more worried about identity theft and look to see if I'm $10,000 off,'' he said.
 Marcia L. Turner, president of the American Association of Daily Money Managers and a former banker who provides financial services for small businesses, nonprofit groups and individuals, agreed with my father. ''I can't remember the last time a bank made an error in an account I've worked on,'' she said.
 Nonetheless, she said, too many people have no idea how much money they have -- or do not have -- in their checking account. That is particularly true if two people are using the same account.
 ''Banks used to have a sense of humor,'' she said. ''It used to be you knew Mary or Joe down at the bank, and they call you and said, 'Marcia, you're overdrawn,' and either they charged you or they didn't.''
 Now, few customers even deal with a bank teller, let alone know their names, so if you bounce a check, a computer is going to charge you. But many people feel that overdraft protection, which avoids the hefty cost of a bounced check, takes care of such problems.
 There are two common forms of such protection, Ms. Turner said: savings overdraft, in which money is transferred from your savings to cover the exact amount of the overdraft for about $5 a transfer; or an overdraft line of credit, which will cover any checks that are written when you do not have money in your account. With those accounts, interest rates can run 20 percent or higher, and the customer can incur annual fees as well as a cost for each transaction.
 There is another problem: if you end up seriously mismanaging a checking account -- for example, you did not reimburse your bank for overdraft amounts or committed fraud -- your name could end up on ChexSystems or TeleCheck.
 These are nationwide databases that banks and credit unions can use to deny customers a checking account.
 Your name stays on ChexSystems, the most widely used database, for five years, although there are programs to help those who have been denied checking accounts find a way back into favor.
 One, called Get Checking, is a national organization created in 2001 by the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee's extension service and the eFunds Corporation, the parent of the ChexSystems report.
 Get Checking (getchecking.org) works with community organizations and credit unions, to help those who either have seriously bungled their checking accounts or do not have the credentials to open an account, like immigrants. It teaches them how to use debit cards wisely and how to balance a checkbook.
 To participate in the course, students must pay off all balances owed to all financial institutions, attend a six-hour class that costs $40 a person or $60 a couple and pass a competency test. They then receive a certificate that some banks and credit unions may accept, permitting them to open a checking account.
 Interestingly enough, Professor Mandell, who is the principal researcher for the JumpStart Coalition for Financial Literacy surveys given to high school seniors every two years, said the 2006 test showed that students who said they had bounced at least one check for insufficient funds had much poorer financial literacy than those who had never bounced a check.
 ''It's the first time we've made a correlation between financial behavior and financial literacy,'' he said.
 And more than 35 percent of the high school seniors who said they had checking accounts reported that they did not balance their checkbooks regularly.
 Those students might be the future clients of Ms. Turner. Although she provides all sorts of financial services for clients, there are a few she just balances checkbooks for. Money managers in her association generally charge $50 to $200 an hour, depending on where they work nationally.
 ''I love balancing checkbooks, and the more screwed up, the better,'' she said.
 Over here, please. 
 Ms. Turner assured me that an inability to balance a checkbook is not a sign of complete ineptitude, as I feared. ''You're not unusual,'' she said. ''Some people's minds just don't work that way.''
 Online banking might solve the problem, she suggested. That way we can check to see which debits and direct deposits have cleared daily or weekly.
 This seems obvious, but it is something we never did. After talking with Ms. Turner, I promptly signed onto our banking site and suddenly felt empowered.
 She also suggests using software like Quicken to track and manage your finances; it does the math for you, so errors are avoided.
 In this age of identity theft, or to ensure you have not been billed more than once for the same debit card transaction, Ms. Turner says, the bare minimum a person should do is to open a statement, examine the transactions to make sure nothing looks fishy and eyeball the balance to ensure it is in the ballpark.
 ''Because I guarantee you,'' she said, ''if a check bounces, it's going to be the one to the I.R.S. or the mortgage company.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Danwei Chu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); DEBIT CARDS (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); OLYMPICS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%) Personal Finances; Checks and Checking Accounts

PERSON: Alina Tugend

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



498 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Sportonomics Beguiles 3 Economists

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
SPORTS are entertainment. Sports do not often change our world; rather they serve as a distraction from our world.''
 So begins a new book, entitled ''The Wages of Wins: Taking Measure of the Many Myths of Modern Sports.'' Written by three young, relatively obscure economists -- David J. Berri of California State University, Bakersfield; Martin B. Schmidt of the College of William and Mary; and Stacey L. Brook of the University of Sioux Falls -- it tries to do for sports, particularly basketball, what Steven D. Levitt and his co-author, Stephen J. Dubner, did for a range of social questions in their runaway best-seller, ''Freakonomics.''
Mr. Levitt, of course, is the University of Chicago economist who has become well known for applying the tools of economics -- statistical analysis, economic modeling and so on -- to try to answer such real-world questions as: do real estate agents always act in their customers' best interest (no), are swimming pools more dangerous than guns (yes), and do some teachers cheat to make their student's test scores look better (you bet they do). 
 But while Mr. Levitt is by far the most famous economist to take this approach, he is hardly alone. His kind of work has become the hottest little corner of economics, with lots of young economists seeking ways to do similar work. ''Like most people, economists respond to incentives,'' said David C. Colander, an economic historian at Middlebury College. And the incentives in trying to follow in the footsteps of Mr. Levitt are powerful. As Richard H. Thaler, yet another important University of Chicago economist, put it, ''Freakonomics is on everybody's mind.''
 All of which brings me back to ''The Wages of Wins.'' The three authors are quite frank about their desire to have their book be seen as the ''Freakonomics'' of sports; in their first chapter, they even quote approvingly Mr. Levitt's line that ''economics is a science with excellent tools for gaining answers but a serious shortage of interesting questions.''
 So here are some of the questions the authors found interesting enough to merit the ''Freakonomics'' approach: In baseball and basketball, are the size of the payroll and the success of the team highly correlated? Is Shaquille O'Neal better than Kobe Bryant? Is Allen Iverson overrated? Is Kevin Garnett the best player in the National Basketball Association? Do good players play better in the playoffs? And are high scorers given too much credit -- and paid more than their true value to a team?
 WHEN I read the book recently, I was impressed by the amount of effort that went into compiling the reams of data that underlie the work; Mr. Berri later told me that ''The Wages of Wins'' was the culmination of 10 years of economic research the authors had been conducting since they'd all been in grad school together.
 Equally impressive is the sheer complexity of the formulas they have labored over, particularly one called ''Win Score,'' which tries to use virtually every offensive and defensive statistic in basketball to arrive at a number that measures how many wins each player in the N.B.A. is responsible for. Their Win Score, the authors claim, is the true measure of a player's productivity, and hence his value. (In case you're wondering, Kevin Garnett's Win Score -- it's ranged from the mid-20's to the low 30's over the last few years -- makes him the single most productive player in basketball. And Shaq's Win Score of 14 in 2004 means that the year the Lakers let him go and kept Kobe, he was the better player. Bryant's Win Score that year was 10.7.)
 So far, all that effort appears to be paying off; the book has been generating attention, including a glowing review from Malcolm Gladwell in The New Yorker. But I couldn't suppress the lurking thought that the Freakonomics effect might be getting a little out of hand. I mean, does it really matter whether Shaq is better than Kobe? And is that worth studying?
 If you ask economists why they think it's worth veering into sports, you'll get a few different answers. The first is that there is an incredible amount of available data -- and a large amount of data is critical to anyone trying to do Mr. Levitt's kind of economics. ''Sports is the only industry where you have the complete worker productivity of every worker in the industry,'' Mr. Berri said. ''It is an incredible data set.'' 
 A second reason is that lots of people are interested in sports, so it is an easy way for an economist to engage an audience. ''I use sports a lot in my decision-making class,'' Mr. Thaler said. ''I like to tell students that I'm going to be happy if they spend time in a bar arguing about the stuff they've learned in my class. They're not going to be arguing about financial accounting in a bar.''
 The most highbrow reason, though, is that sports can give an economist a window into human behavior. David Romer, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, and a man who generally writes about such weighty topics as monetary policy, did a study not long ago examining whether football teams make the correct decision -- statistically speaking -- on fourth down in choosing whether to kick the ball or attempt a first down. His conclusion is that, most of the time, teams are far too conservative. From there he extrapolated that companies and individuals may be arriving at equally poorly thought-out choices in making decisions that require evaluating risks versus rewards. In effect, he used football as a way to explore the issue of risk aversion.
 Which, to me, is precisely what ''The Wages of Wins'' doesn't do. The fundamental case the authors make for their research is that the statistical analysis shows that more often than not, the conventional wisdom about sports is dead wrong -- that the data, as they put it, ''offers many surprises.'' Implicitly, at least, their larger point is that owners and general managers, most of whom are predisposed to accept the conventional wisdom -- since, after all, it's their conventional wisdom -- misallocate resources because they are operating from their gut rather than from a more statistically sound approach. 
 Well, maybe. On the other hand, there are always going to be smart basketball owners and not-so-smart ones, and the smart ones are going to make better decisions. Nor is there any particular proof that statistics-based decision-making is a guarantee of success. In baseball, the Boston Red Sox have embraced the kind of deep statistical analysis of baseball players that ''The Wages of Wins'' uses in basketball, and have had considerable success. But the Atlanta Braves disdain it -- and that franchise has also had a great deal of success.
 The more I read ''The Wages of Wins,'' the more I wound up thinking that what they had mainly done was use the tools of economics to stir up the kind of debate that goes on forever in sports and will never be conclusively answered: who's the better player? On Malcolm Gladwell's blog right now, there is a roaring debate about whether Garnett really is the best player in the N.B.A., with Mr. Gladwell weighing in on the side of the economists, but others pointing out that perhaps Garnett's own flaws are part of the reason his team, the Minnesota Timberwolves, doesn't usually do much past the regular season. 
 Yes, that proves Mr. Thaler's point: this stuff really does engage people. But it strikes me as an awfully trivial way to spend a lot of economic firepower. Statistics or no, the question of whether Garnett is the best player in the N.B.A. is simply unprovable. It also caused me to think about another economist, Erik Lie of the University of Iowa, who has also compiled huge amounts of data in recent years to try to answer an interesting question. The question he was trying to answer was: Are companies backdating options? Now that seems worth the effort.
 To his credit, Mr. Berri was pretty self-effacing when I asked him about the value of ''The Wages of Wins.'' ''This is sports,'' he said, echoing the beginning of his book. ''It is not life and death. This is not 'The Wealth of Nations.' And no one should be confused that we think it is.'' He told me that he would be writing more about sports in the next few years, but ''at some point, I hope to be writing better things.'' I hope so, too.
 Thanks to everyone who responded to my call for nominations for good business fiction over the last two decades. I know I said I would post the results on the Web, but once I realized how few of the nominated books I'd actually read, I decided to hold off until I'd had a chance to read some of them. That's going to be my summer reading. I plan to return to the subject in the fall.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); TRENDS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BASEBALL (74%); HISTORY (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (53%) Athletics and Sports; Books and Literature; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (59%); KEVIN GARNETT (55%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (55%) Joseph Nocera; David J Berri; Martin B (Prof) Schmidt; Stacey L Brook

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



499 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Investors Are Looking On the Sunny Side of a Downturn

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JEREMY W. PETERS; Paulo Prada and Saritha Rai contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
As his investments in the stock markets of developing countries were hitting record highs in early May, Tristram Millard had a nagging feeling that things were about to turn down.
 He resisted the temptation to cash out, believing that his investments still had more bang left in them.
But things did turn down and the recent swoon left him with a 15 percent loss in a Latin American fund and reduced his profits in a broader emerging market fund.
 But he is not panicking.
 ''As gut wrenching as it is when the market shakes out like this, I tend to see it as a buying opportunity,'' Mr. Millard, 29, said. ''It's not like all those companies are going to go out of business.'' 
 Like Mr. Millard, most investors -- professionals and amateurs, individuals and institutions -- have reacted with relative calm to the recent downdraft in global financial markets.
 Certainly, they have taken money out of developing countries and fast-growing American companies, but they have not, at least so far, sold out of the market as they did during the technology crash of 2000 or the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
 They have reinvested some of the money in more conservative areas like bigger American companies, money market accounts and certificates of deposit. 
 The contraction in markets and investor confidence, as a result, is slow and small by recent standards. Since April of this year, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down 5 percent and the Nasdaq composite index is down 8.7 percent. By contrast, in the two months after they peaked in March 2000, the S.& P. dropped 8.4 percent and the Nasdaq fell 33 percent. 
 Most individual investors are making only minor adjustments in their portfolios, according to one study. Transfer activity in the 401(k) accounts of 1.6 million employees studied by Hewitt Associates has increased only slightly and most of the transfers were out of emerging market funds.
 The investor pullback is a natural outgrowth of higher interest rates and tighter monetary policies worldwide, experts say. ''The punch bowl is being taken away everywhere you look,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab.
 The Federal Reserve is expected to raise short-term interest rates next week by a quarter point for the 17th time in two years, to 5.25 percent. The Bank of Japan has been removing cash from banks as it prepares to raise rates that have been close to zero for more than five years. The European Central Bank has raised interest rates modestly and expects to increase them further. Money flow could ease even in the white-hot Chinese economy as the government tightens lending standards.
 Ms. Sonders has been advising Schwab's clients to take a conservative, though not bearish, position by increasing the allocation of cash in their portfolios by 10 percentage points and reducing their stocks by an equal amount. Investors are heeding those recommendations, Ms. Sonders said, but the change has been gradual. 
 ''People are trying to hunker down and ride through this and hope that the correction is over,'' she said.
 Since the start of May, more than $84.2 billion has flowed into money market funds, according to AMG Data Services, a research firm. By contrast, investors took $21.6 billion out of money market funds in the first four months of the year and took $290 billion out from 2002 to 2005.
 Some experts say that the tightening of monetary spigots is only now starting to be felt by investors, who became more aggressive with their investments in recent years. 
 But by historical standards, money remains relatively cheap. The Fed's interest rate for interbank loans is below its 50-year average. Japanese rates are not expected to move much higher than zero and not until the end of the year, and in Europe those costs are still below 3 percent. 
 Though concern about the United States trade deficit and housing market worry economists at the World Bank, the organization expects the global economy to grow 3.7 percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2007 after expanding by an estimated 3.6 percent last year.
 ''The comfort that we can take right now is a global economy that is on more solid ground than it was in 1997 or 2000,'' said Jerry Webman, the chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds.
 Fund managers, meanwhile, see opportunities. Shares of large American companies, which languished relative to international stocks and commodities in recent years, may come back in favor as investors look for stable growth, said Michael E. Schroer, managing partner at Renaissance Investment Management in Cincinnati. His fund recently invested in Coca-Cola and Colgate-Palmolive and sold Apple.
 Most of the fallout in the spring retreat occurred in developing countries and in commodities.
 For developing countries like Brazil, the contraction could put a damper on stock prices, though probably not their economies, experts say. That is so, they said, because investors have been borrowing at low rates in developed countries to invest in developing markets with, until recently, expectations of a higher return.
 Such returns are needed to entice investors into those markets because as interest rates rise similar returns are available in money markets and bonds with less risk. 
 Brazil's main stock index, for instance, has fallen 17.4 percent after rising 25.5 percent from January until May 9, when it peaked.
 ''Brazil was benefiting from a series of trends that will no longer exist if interest rates get much higher in more developed countries,'' said Arminio Fraga, a former president of Brazil's central bank who is now a partner at Gavea Investimentos, an asset management company in Rio de Janeiro.
 In the last five weeks, investors pulled $4.7 billion from emerging market funds, after putting in $16 billion during the first four months of the year. The Morgan Stanley capital international emerging markets index of stocks in 25 countries has fallen 16.5 percent since April.
 The sell-off was accentuated by the increasing popularity of exchange-traded funds, which can be bought and sold like a stock, rather than just once a day with mutual funds. Many of these newly popular funds track indexes of stocks by country, region or sector and maintain no cash. So, when investors redeem them, the funds sell shares in local markets to raise cash, said Robert L. Adler, president of AMG Data. ''They are simply hitting the market at the same time,'' he said.
 In India, the selling from these funds dumped more shares on markets than local demand could absorb, said Shriram Iyer, head of research at Edelweiss Securities in Mumbai. ''When the global funds started selling,'' he said, ''this acted as a trigger and led to a downward spiral.''
 India's Nifty index of 50 stocks is down 19 percent since May 10, after climbing 32.4 percent for the year until then.
 Markets for commodities like gold, silver and platinum have had similar trajectories.
 In Chicago, Jay R. Feuerstein, a futures trader, unwound his firm's holdings in gold after his computer models suggested the price had crossed an important threshold at $690 an ounce. He now has a short position on gold, which hit a 26-year high at $721.50 on May 11 and closed yesterday at $584.80. ''We were very fortunate,'' he said.
 But even in those volatile markets, a few of the faithful are standing pat.
 Jim Brownold, a retired actor, bought more gold coins when the price fell. After losing money on technology stocks like Yahoo in 2001, Mr. Brownold believes he has become more conservative with his investments.
 ''I prefer to invest insomething and let it roll until it develops some kind of problem,'' he said.
 Ira Scott, a psychiatrist based in Manhattan, is staying with the stock market. He trades stocks every day, but recently has taken a more conservative approach and is making fewer trades but he said he remained confident in his investments, even if the volatility was nerve-racking.
 ''I've been a little more on the safe side lately,'' he said. ''I'm trading smaller but more confidently.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ira Scott, a psychiatrist based in Manhattan, said he had recently taken a more conservative approach to investing, but remained confident. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. C9)Graph: ''Markets Slide as Rates Rise . . .''Emerging market stocks showed a more abrupt decline than an index of United States stocks as interest rates rose this year.Graphs track the following since 2003:MSCI EMERGING MARKETS INDEXSTANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEXMONEY MARKET INTEREST RATES. . . And Investment Funds ReactInvestors moved money out of emerging market funds and into money market funds but held onto most of their investments in United States equities.Graphs track the following since 2003:EMERGING MARKET FUNDS AND E.T.F.'SDOMESTIC EQUITY FUNDS AND E.T.F.'SMONEY MARKET FUNDSNote: Fund flows for June 2006 are through June 21(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets [market indexes]
Bankrate.com [interest rates]
 AMG Data Services [fund flows])(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); INTEREST RATES (85%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (81%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (81%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



500 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Deals Spur Energy Rally; Other Shares Sag

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shares fell yesterday, closing out the first three-week slump since October for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, as concern that interest rates will keep climbing overshadowed multibillion-dollar offers for energy companies.
 Wells Fargo and other banks led the decline in anticipation of higher borrowing costs. Federal Reserve policy makers are expected to raise rates next week for the 17th consecutive time in the last two years. 
 ''The market will have a hard time getting any traction'' until the Fed stops raising rates, said Ernie Ankrim, chief investment strategist at Russell Investment Group in Tacoma, Wash. 
 Shares failed to hold gains that followed a government report that orders for durable goods excluding aircraft rose in May.
 Oil and gas stocks rallied yesterday after Anadarko Petroleum offered to pay $21 billion for Kerr-McGee and Western Gas Resources. 
 For the day, the S.& P. 500 declined 1.10 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,244.50, erasing earlier gains in the last hour of trading. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 30.02 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,989.09. The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.51, or 0.1 percent, to 2,121.47.
 For the week, the S.& P. 500 slumped 0.6 percent, while the Dow fell 0.2 percent and the Nasdaq slipped 0.4 percent.
 Indexes bounced between gains and losses yesterday as investors assessed the conflicting aspects of the durable goods data.
 Orders for goods made to last for years rose 0.7 percent in May, excluding transportation equipment. The increase exceeded a median estimate of 0.6 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Falling demand for aircraft led to an overall decline of 0.3 percent for the month.
 ''What concerns me more right now is the slowdown rather than inflation,'' said Peter Goldman, a manager at Chicago Asset Management.
 Stocks have dropped since reaching five-year highs in May on concern higher borrowing costs will hurt the economy. Fed policy makers are expected to raise the benchmark rate to 5.25 percent next week.
 Financial companies had the biggest drop in the S.& P. 500, collectively falling 0.6 percent, as the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to the highest since May 2002. The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 4/32, to 99 7/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.22 percent, from 5.21 percent on Thursday.
 Wells Fargo, the fifth-largest American bank, slid 90 cents, to $65.51. Citigroup, the largest, slumped 43 cents, to $47.74.
 Shares of Comerica, the Michigan bank, tumbled $2.14, to $50.70, after its rating was lowered to sell from neutral by Heather Wolf, an analyst for Merrill Lynch. 
 Some 1.41 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, about 17 percent below the three-month daily average. The below-average trading allowed a surge in computer-aided stock buying to produce heavy market swings, traders said.
 Anadarko Petroleum agreed to buy Kerr-McGee and Western Gas Resources in separate transactions totaling $21 billion. The deals more than double Anadarko's sales and create the nation's largest independent oil and gas producer.
 Kerr-McGee jumped $18.31, or 36 percent, to $68.61. Western Gas climbed $18.76, to $59.67. Anadarko lost $3.49, or 7.2 percent, to $44.90.
 This was not the only transaction in the industry. Energy Partners agreed to buy Stone Energy, an oil and natural gas producer, for $1.4 billion after Stone terminated its sale to Plains Exploration and Production. Stone added 48 cents, to $46.71.
 Crude oil for August delivery rose a third day, gaining 3 cents, to $70.87, a barrel in New York trading. Energy companies in the S.& P. 500 had the biggest advance in the index, adding 1.5 percent.
 Shares of Neurocrine Biosciences tumbled $3.96 to $9.85 after Pfizer, the drug maker, ended an agreement to sell Neurocrine's sleeping pill a month after federal regulators rejected the medicine.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (71%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); CHICAGO ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (53%); COMERICA INC (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%); APC (NYSE) (71%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CMA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (71%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (57%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



501 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Anadarko To Pay $21 Billion For 2 Rivals

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
In a move that will create one of the nation's largest independent oil companies, Anadarko Petroleum said yesterday that it had agreed to buy two smaller rivals for $21.1 billion in cash to expand its operations into North America's fastest-growing oil and gas regions.
 In separate deals, Anadarko will purchase Kerr-McGee for $16.4 billion and Western Gas Resources for $4.7 billion. Those prices represent considerable premiums over the companies' market value, based on closing stock prices Thursday: 40 percent for Kerr-McGee and 49 percent for Western Gas.
The acquisitions highlight the interest in untapped natural gas reserves in the Rockies. The dual purchase allows Anadarko to expand its natural gas production substantially by adding large holdings in the Rocky Mountains that belong to Western Gas and by reinforcing its presence in the Gulf of Mexico, where Kerr-McGee is a major player. 
 It could also set off a fresh wave of mergers in the sector, analysts said.
 ''With the sector swimming in cash and growth opportunities limited, we expect more deals,'' William A. Featherston, an analyst with UBS, wrote in a note to investors. The companies that might be involved in the consolidation include Devon Energy, Newfield Exploration and SouthWestern Energy, Mr. Featherston said. 
 Anadarko, based in Houston, has focused on building up its operations in North America in recent years, paring most of its international businesses and stressing mainly exploration for natural gas. Some analysts had seen Anadarko as an acquisition target until recently, but that is now unlikely, given the combination's new size. 
 ''One, plus one, plus one, makes more than three,'' James Hackett, the chairman and chief executive of Anadarko, said in a teleconference with analysts. 
 The three companies began negotiating only five weeks ago, according to Mr. Hackett, when the value of oil and gas companies slumped on stock markets on concerns over an economic slowdown and a recession. 
 The announcement is the latest in a run of energy mergers recently spurred by heightened competition for resources around the world. With oil prices averaging $66 a barrel this year and natural gas above $6.25 per thousand cubic feet, energy producers have been sitting on piles of cash and, seemingly, fewer opportunities for new exploration. 
 High energy prices have not deterred energy executives from paying substantial premiums to grab reserves. 
 But with a steadily dwindling number of companies, mergers in the energy sector have attracted increased interest in Congress lately, with some political leaders questioning whether tighter competition might have contributed to higher energy prices. 
 Unlike the huge mergers of the late 1990's, when Exxon combined with Mobil, and Chevron bought Texaco, the recent acquisitions have involved mostly second-tier oil companies and smaller acquisitions. 
 In December, ConocoPhillips said it would buy Burlington Resources, a natural gas producer, for $35.6 billion; earlier last year, Chevron and Cnooc of China battled over control of Unocal, a small American oil company. Chevron eventually prevailed for $17 billion.
 Kerr-McGee, which is based in Oklahoma City, says it has about 900 million barrels of proven reserves and daily production of 262,000 barrels of oil and natural gas equivalents. The other company, Western Gas Resources, which is based in Denver, owns 153 million barrels of reserves and produced 188 million cubic feet of natural gas a day. 
 Both companies also provide Anadarko with a large pool of qualified petroleum engineers and other oil-field professionals, who have been in short supply in the industry.
 ''We're going to keep as many people as possible,'' Mr. Hackett said. ''The last thing we want to do in this business is induce people to leave.''
 The deepwater region of the Gulf of Mexico, which accounts for over a quarter of oil production in the United States, has been the fastest-growing exploration and development oil prospect in the country. While production has declined in most other regions, the deepwater production has grown.
 Kerr-McGee, a fixture in Oklahoma oil circles for seven decades, drew attention last year after the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn, who bought enough Kerr-McGee shares to become its biggest shareholder, tried to gain representation on the board, and then forced the company to sell its oil and gas interests in the North Sea to finance a stock buyback program.
 The company has also been fighting efforts by the Department of Interior and Congress to end highly favorable subsidies to drill in the Gulf of Mexico that were granted when oil prices were a fraction of today's prices. It is suing the federal government to keep these royalty relief provisions in place.
 Mr. Hackett, a spokesman for the industry's efforts to expand production around North America, has frequently criticized Congressional efforts to block new exploration in areas like offshore Florida. He said that Congress was misguided in its bid to change offshore exploration rules in the gulf since oil prices had risen, comparing the government's efforts to waive the royalty provisions with Venezuela's tightening of control over energy resources.
 ''The issue is not to tag companies that are doing their darndest to develop the new energy resources,'' he said on a conference call with reporters. ''The issue is actually to develop energy of all kinds that are essential.''
 The company said it would pay for the acquisitions by selling assets, issuing new shares and new debt. The cash deal will be financed through a credit line from UBS, Credit Suisse and Citigroup.
 The three combined companies had sales of $17 billion last year. That compares with $359 billion for Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, which also has substantial refining and chemical operations. 
 Anadarko will pay $70.50 a share for Kerr-McGee and assume $1.6 billion in debt. The acquisition price represents a 40 percent premium over Kerr-McGee's closing stock price of $50.30 a share on Thursday. Anadarko will also pay $61 a share in cash for Western Gas Resources and assume $600 million in debt. That per share acquisition price is 49 percent higher than the company's closing price of $40.91.
 Anadarko is paying $18 a barrel for Kerr-McGee's reserves and $30 a barrel for those of Western Gas. Anadarko said that factoring in the two companies' probable reserves, a more risky measure of future development, it is paying $12 a barrel for the two companies. 
 The news sent shares of Western Gas sharply higher, to $59.67 a share, up 46 percent from Thursday's close. Kerr-McGee shares soared to $68.61, a 36 percent jump. 
 Shares of Anadarko fell 7 percent, to $44.90 a share.
 The directors of all three companies have approved the deals, which are expected to be completed by the end of September, Anadarko said.

Energy Producer Buys Rival
By Bloomberg News
 Energy Partners Ltd., the oil and natural gas producer, agreed yesterday to buy Stone Energy for $1.4 billion, wresting the company from a rival offer by Plains Exploration and Production.
 Investors in Stone, which is based in Lafayette, La., will get $51 a share in cash or stock, the companies said yesterday in a statement. Energy Partners will also refinance $800 million of Stone debt. Stone dropped its sale to Plains, which agreed in April to an all-stock purchase worth $44 a share as of Thursday's close. Energy Partners will pay a $43.5 million breakup fee to Plains, which is based in Houston. Energy Partners, known as EPL, will use the purchase to increase its reserves in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Shares of Stone rose 48 cents, or 1 percent, to $46.71. Energy Partners rose $1.15, or 6 percent, to $19.17, and Plains climbed $2.25, or 6.4 percent, to $37.45.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Constitution Spar, a production rig run by Kerr-McGee, operates some 190 miles south of New Orleans in about 5,000 feet of water. (Photo by Kerr-McGee)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); MERGERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); MOUNTAINS (74%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: CANADIAN NATURAL RESOURCES LTD (92%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (92%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (85%); NEWFIELD EXPLORATION CO (55%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Anadarko Petroleum Corp; Kerr-Mcgee Corp; Western Gas Resources Inc

TICKER: CNQ (TSX) (92%); CNQ (NYSE) (92%); APC (NYSE) (92%); COP (NYSE) (85%); NFX (NYSE) (55%); DVN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (85%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: JAMES T HACKETT (58%); JAMES P HACKETT (50%) Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) ROCKY MOUNTAINS (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Rocky Mountains; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



502 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Strong Profits, Mergers and an Investigation

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
JITTERY investors set aside concerns about inflation and put their faith in profits this week, sending stock indexes higher for a couple of days as FedEx, Morgan Stanley and other companies posted better-than-expected earnings before the markets slumped later in the week.
Profits were not vigorous everywhere, however. Worries about weaker earnings amid competition from lower-cost producers persuaded two cellphone makers to merge, for example. Paradoxically, profits might have been a bit too good for airlines flying across the North Atlantic: government investigators in Britain and the United States subpoenaed business records as part of an investigation into suspicions of price fixing.

ANOTHER DOMINO -- Two of the biggest telecommunications equipment companies in the world, Nokia of Finland and Siemens of Germany, agreed to combine their network hardware businesses, creating a $30 billion business. 
 The goal was to better compete with a growing number of lower-cost and increasingly sophisticated Asian competitors for the business of a pool of customers -- telephone, cellphone and data-transmission companies -- that is shrinking because of mergers.
 The same pressures compelled Lucent Technologies of the United States and Alcatel of France to agree to merge in March. That deal created the No. 2 telecommunications equipment maker in the world, with 19.6 percent of the market. Ericsson of Sweden has 21 percent after acquiring Marconi of Italy. The combination of Nokia and Siemens would be third, with 18.3 percent.
 Other big equipment makers -- including Nortel of Canada, which has 10 percent of the market, and Motorola of the United States, with 5 percent -- may seek merger partners to stay competitive. 

ENERGY ACQUISITIONS -- Amid forecasts of rising demand and prices for natural gas, the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation agreed to buy two smaller energy companies for more than $20 billion, at least 40 percent more than the companies were trading for on the stock market.
 Anadarko, one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies, posted revenue of $7.1 billion in 2005. As for the companies it is to buy, Kerr-McGee reported $5.93 billion in revenue and Western Gas Resources had $3.96 billion.
 Analysts said they expected Anadarko to sell some assets of the companies after the all-cash deal closes, in part to help pay for the acquisition.

ROBUST PROFITS -- FedEx said its profit increased 27 percent and forecast even higher earnings in the coming year.
 The moves stoked confidence among investors, who consider the company a bellwether for the broad economy because its customers include the largest retailers, manufacturers and service industry giants.
 Investors took note of such encouraging profit figures -- including some from other companies like Morgan Stanley and Oracle -- and shrugged off last week's worries about inflation, rising interest rates and flagging economic indicators, at least for a couple of days.
 The worries returned late in the week and stocks slumped again, even though Thomson Financial, a research firm, forecast that the profits of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index would increase 11.7 percent in the second quarter and 15.6 percent in the third quarter.
 Companies will start reporting earnings for the second quarter in about three weeks.

TOO ROBUST? -- The authorities in the United States and Britain are investigating possible price collusion among airlines flying across the North Atlantic. British Airways disclosed the review, saying it had suspended two of its own executives over the matter. Virgin Atlantic, United Airlines and American Airlines have said they were cooperating with investigators.
 Among the things investigators are looking at are fuel surcharges and corporate discount programs. This review, which focuses on passenger transportation, comes just three months after the authorities in the United States and Europe said they were investigating several airline cargo operations on suspeicions of colluding on prices.
 British regulators could fine British Airways as much as 10 percent of its worldwide revenue if it is found guilty of anticompetitive behavior, Bloomberg News reported. Its revenue rose 9.6 percent last year, to $15.5 billion.

MORE TURMOIL -- Still reeling from development problems with its double-deck A380 superjumbo jet, Airbus came under renewed scrutiny by its corporate parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company. EADS, meanwhile, was being reviewed by the French government, which wanted more say in how the French-German-Spanish company is run.
 Noel Forgeard, the French co-chief executive of EADS, came in for particular criticism after regulators found that he had sold $2.5 million worth of company stock not long before problems with the A380 delays became public.
 EADS's stock fell a week ago after the company said that A380 deliveries could be delayed six months, reducing projected earnings more than $2 billion over the next four years.
 Although the French government has only an advisory role over EADS, the finance minister, Thierry Breton, said he had met with the company's co-chairman, Arnaud Lagardere, to discuss a ''possible evolution'' in the company's management and shareholding.

MEAT DIPLOMACY -- Japan said it would resume imports of American beef after reaching an agreement that allows its inspectors into American meatpacking plants, a highly unusual concession by the United States.
 Japan was the largest foreign market for American cattle ranchers before December 2003, when it was closed to them after a lone case of mad cow disease was found in Washington State. Japan imported $1.4 billion worth of American beef in 2003 before the ban was imposed.
 It reopened its markets to American beef in December but renewed the ban weeks later, when butchers found nerve tissue in a meat shipment from a Brooklyn company. Such tissue is the most likely to carry the disease, which is linked to a fatal brain-wasting disease in humans.
 Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, is scheduled to visit the United States next week, probably for the last time before his scheduled retirement in September.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 17 through June 23:
 1. Growing Wikipedia Refines Its 'Anyone Can Edit' Policy
 2. Here Illegally, Working Hard and Paying Taxes
 3. Researchers Say New Chip Breaks Speed Record
 4. 4 Diabetes Drugs Are Seen Raising Hope and Profit
 5. Moving Ahead, Rather Throws Sad Look Back
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Charlie Romero working for FedEx in New York. FedEx said this week that its fourth-quarter profit increased 27 percent and forecast even higher earnings in the coming year. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MERGERS (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (88%); CONSUMER LAW (79%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); CARTELS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE FIXING (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); AIRLINES (75%); SUBPOENAS (75%); PRODUCT RECALLS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (74%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); DATA TRANSMISSION (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%); RETAILERS (60%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (59%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Gas (Fuel); Airlines and Airplanes; Telephones and Telecommunications; International Trade and World Market; Meat; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Delivery Services; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Mad Cow Disease (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy); Telephones and Telecommunications; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Livestock; Livestock Diseases; Consumer Protection; Factories and Industrial Plants; Recalls and Bans of Products; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Telephones and Telecommunications; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (83%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (83%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SIEMENS AG (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Nokia; Siemens Ag; Andarko Petroleum Corp; Kerr-Mcgee Corp; Western Gas Resources Inc; Airbus Industrie; European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co; Fedex Corp; European Union

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (83%); ALU (NYSE) (83%); ALU (BIT) (83%); ERIC.B (STO) (83%); ERIC.A (STO) (83%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (83%); APC (NYSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (58%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); FINLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); GERMANY (76%) Japan; Europe; France; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



503 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Fall For a 2nd Consecutive Month

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Orders for items like aircraft, computers and big-ticket industrial equipment fell in May for a second consecutive month, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
 Over all, durable goods orders, which include a range of consumer and industrial items like home appliances and semiconductors that are meant to last longer than three years, fell 0.3 percent last month, to $208.67 billion. That followed a 4.7 percent decline in April. Economists had predicted an increase of 0.4 percent. 
But economists said there was some room for comfort in the numbers, which showed that when the volatile commercial aircraft industry was taken out of the equation, orders for durable goods actually rose.
 Excluding commercial aircraft, orders rose 1 percent in May after falling nearly 2 percent in April. Economists took this, along with an increase in shipments of durable goods, as an indication that economic growth was slowing but not at an uncomfortable rate.
 ''This suggests a reasonably positive near-term outlook,'' wrote Goldman Sachs economists in a research note.
 An economist with Global Insight, Nigel Gault, said, ''The underlying trend for orders and business capital spending remains solidly upward.'' 
 Much of the overall drop in durable goods orders was a result of a slowdown in the civilian aircraft business, which fell 17.9 percent last month. That offset gains in orders for automobiles, military aircraft, metals and computers. 
 Investors seemed unmoved by the data, which was released before the market opened yesterday but had little lasting impact on trading. Stocks fell once the market opened, but rebounded to close slightly down for the day.
 Typically the durable goods numbers fluctuate from month to month. Since the beginning of the year, the figure has fallen in three months and risen in two. 
 Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR Inc., said the numbers had followed a ''pronounced saw-tooth pattern, and today's report continues this move.'' 
 ''Underlying trends, however, remain solid,'' he added.
 Despite the volatility, May appeared to be a relatively stable month. 
 Economists from Lehman Brothers noted that it was the first month since December that net durable goods orders did not move at least 3 percent. 
 They called the numbers ''unusually stable.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Sabo moves a 37-inch television at a Costco in San Diego. (Photo by Jack Smith/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (95%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); AIRLINES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); SHIPMENTS (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%) United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



504 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Running for Office, on a Treadmill

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
John Faso was never a patient on ABC's ''Extreme Makeover,'' and Botox would interest him only if it were part of some New York Medicaid scam.
 Yet as the Republican candidate for governor this year, Mr. Faso knows that he has an image to protect and project. And he has taken great care with both.
After his defeat in the race for state comptroller in 2002, and on the cusp of turning 50, Mr. Faso became concerned with his self-image -- an unusual change, his friends say, given that he is an intensely analytical politician whose inner nerd has far more in common with The Economist than Men's Journal. 
 Mr. Faso began jogging three miles on a treadmill at his home in Kinderhook in Columbia County, several times a week, and also working out at hotel gyms on the road. In time he lost 22 pounds, dropping to 182 pounds today; his wife, Mary Frances, did even better, though she is not offering details.
 More striking to friends, Mr. Faso shed his trademark eyeglasses -- which were never particularly stylish -- after having a type of eye surgery, photorefractive keratectomy, or PRK, which improved his vision from 20/1,000 to about 20/20.
 Mr. Faso's political advisers shrug off the physical transformation of their 53-year-old candidate, saying he is more preoccupied with cutting taxes than with cutting his waistline.
 Yet they acknowledge that the governor's race will play out largely on television, from millions of dollars in political commercials to the debates this fall, and a slim Faso could go over better than a chubby Faso.
 ''The look of a candidate is certainly important, though it's not like you have to be a GQ model to run for governor -- I mean, let's face it,'' said Susan Del Percio, an adviser and spokeswoman for Mr. Faso.
 Physical fitness seems to be a mainstay of New York politics this year. The leading Democratic candidate for governor, Eliot Spitzer, is a fleet-footed jogger; his rival for the party nomination, Thomas R. Suozzi, is a regular at the gym. When some people questioned whether William F. Weld, a former Republican candidate, was serious about the governor's race, his defenders cited as evidence that he was spending a lot of time on his treadmill to improve his stamina and endurance.
 But ever since Mr. Faso became a candidate last year, Republicans who remembered his last campaign have said that the biggest change between 2002 and now is not his politics but his look: less puffy and more toned, the absence of the unflattering glasses, the well-coiffed hair. He might talk the talk about streamlining government, but he walked the walk in streamlining himself.
 ''I think you see a lot of people doing that if they're going to be in the public eye,'' said Jean Hamilton, a friend and supporter of Mr. Faso's and a former chief executive of Prudential Institutional.
 ''Media coverage is everything in politics, and if a newspaper or publication chooses to use unflattering photos or drawings of people they don't like, that can really make a difference in perception,'' Ms. Hamilton said.
 There was at least one ''strange-looking photo'' of Mr. Faso in circulation during the 2002 race for comptroller, she recalled, though no one thought that campaign boiled down to whether Mr. Faso or his Democratic opponent, Alan Hevesi, was better looking.
 Marty Smith, the Republican chairwoman in Herkimer County and a Faso supporter, said that she reacted approvingly when Mr. Faso dropped the glasses and looked ''like he might be working out a little more.''
 ''How you look has a lot to do with your success,'' Ms. Smith said. ''I always say, short candidates can't win. Governor Pataki is pretty tall, right? And he stands out. Your eyes are on him when he's in a room -- you can't really miss him.''


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); WALKING & JOGGING (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE FRAUD (72%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (72%); LASER EYE SURGERY (66%) Primaries

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Patrick Healy; John J Faso; Susan Del Percio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



505 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 452 words

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:

10 P.M. (Discovery Channel, DTimes) ADDICTED TO OIL: THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN REPORTING -- The cry of ''Go Green!'' is ricocheting around the country as the war on terror takes a toll on the American economy, and global warming, conservation and energy alternatives become more important than ever to national security. In this hourlong special, Mr. Friedman (above), a columnist for The New York Times, riffs on petropolitics -- a phrase he coined to define the relationship between oil prices and oil-rich nations -- and discusses the political, strategic and economic impact of the country's reliance on fossil fuels while proposing solutions for beating the addiction. Forget the gasoline lines of the 1970's. ''This is not your parents' energy crisis,'' Mr. Friedman says. 


8 A.M. (HBO Family) POSTMAN PAT -- Since 1981, British children have gone postal over Pat, a mail carrier in the make-believe hamlet of Greenfield in Yorkshire. In 2004, the series was retooled with stop-gap animation and multicultural story lines, and Pat was exported to the United States -- by FedEx, we're guessing. In these two new episodes, the warm-and-fuzzy Pat (above left, with his cat, Jess, in New York) paints a rainbow on the playground wall, complete with a pot of gold, and helps knight a brave child.

8 P.M. (Oxygen) BANSHEE -- Talk about lousy planning. In this made-for-television action drama, a tough girl (Taryn Manning) boosts the car of a serial killer -- and he's dead set on getting it back.

9 P.M. (Logo) THE ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM -- They are outcasts in either corner: the gay community doesn't want them and neither does the Republican party. This ''Real Momentum'' documentary looks at three gay Republicans fighting to gain acceptance, love and victory while sticking tight to their principles.

9 P.M. (Spike) THE ULTIMATE FIGHTER -- Prepare to be pounded in this three-hour season finale of the mixed martial arts reality series in which bitter competitors suffered the indignities of training and living together. Four matches will be shown in their entirety, live from the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, with the winners in the light heavyweight and middleweight rounds being crowned Ultimate Fighters and rewarded with six-figure U.F.C. contracts. Those who missed the pummeling up to this point can watch all of Season 3, starting at 9 a.m. this morning.

9 P.M. (Sci Fi) ANDROID APOCALYPSE -- A hard-working human (Scott Bairstow) loses his job in the last city on Earth to an android, and in a fit of rage kills another. Now he's sentenced to a prison deep in the wasteland, and only the android (Joseph Lawrence, above right, with Mr. Bairstow) he is shackled to can get him out. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by David Silverman/Getty Images)
(Photo by HBO Family)
 (Photo by Sci Fi Channel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); MARTIAL ARTS (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); MAMMALS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); CHILDREN (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); WRITERS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); MURDER (63%); HOMICIDE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); HARD ROCK HOTEL HOLDINGS LLC (51%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



506 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Albany Offers Bigger Budget And a Rebate

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 23 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature agreed Friday to send property tax rebate checks to New York homeowners and add more than $1 billion to the state budget in a final round of deal making as the Legislature's regular session came to a close.
 The larger checks would go to regions with the highest property taxes, with Westchester County residents getting $373 on average, or $613 for those 65 or older.
 By contrast, residents of Hamilton County in the Adirondacks would get $76 on average, or $127 for seniors.
 In New York City, which uses income taxes to finance education, an average homeowner would receive $58, or $97 for seniors, and a credit averaging $70 that would be phased in by the 2007 tax year. 
 The agreement capped a frenzied week of horse-trading as the governor, in his final year in office, battled with lawmakers over state spending, tax cuts and education. 
 The ballooning size of the now $113.4 billion budget drew criticism from fiscal conservatives, who said the roughly 9 percent increase in state spending, inflation adjusted, was the highest in more than three decades, since the Rockefeller era. 
 Governor Pataki vowed to hold the line on spending after he vetoed large parts of the Legislature's budget in April, calling it fiscally irresponsible, but he ultimately agreed to restore much of the spending and added some of his own.
 Lawmakers were in a buoyant mood, however, as they did achieve several of their objectives, including their plan to send out the school property tax rebate checks, worth $1.6 billion over two years, before the election. 
 They also showered resources on the capital region, most notably by agreeing to a roughly $1 billion incentive package to lure Advanced Micro Devices, which will build a semiconductor plant in the Albany area. 
 The plan was a priority of the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the capital region's chief legislative patron. 
 The plant, which is expected to create 1,200 direct jobs and many more from suppliers and support facilities, represents an expensive boon for an upstate economy that has endured a steady decrease in manufacturing jobs. 
 Lawmakers also agreed to provide hundreds of millions of dollars to finance a new convention center in Albany. Both projects will be financed through the state's capital budget.
 ''I'm very pleased with where we stand right now on most of the issues,'' Governor Pataki said at a news conference Friday morning, adding, ''We're still pushing to get the charter schools done.''
 The governor was particularly enthusiastic about the impact the Advanced Micro Devices deal would have on the capital region.
 ''Ten, 20 years from now, people are going to look back and say, when was it clear that the Hudson Valley, that Albany, New York, had become the 21st century Silicon Valley?'' he said in a speech Friday afternoon. ''I think people are going to say June 23, 2006.''
 Hospitals and nursing homes had $490 million worth of budget cuts made by the governor restored as part of the deals, and the agreements also increased financing for environmental programs and aid to cities.
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, had pushed for more money for New York City, and Mr. Pataki said Republicans had agreed to a plan to distribute an additional $300 million to cities across the state over the next three years. And the governor added $34 million to the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, bringing a total of $100 million in state aid to the development plan, which has generated significant opposition. 
 Not all of the contentious issues between the governor and lawmakers were resolved. The Legislature has balked at the governor's plan to more than double the number of charter schools in the state, a priority of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's. In retaliation, the governor has tied up one of the Legislature's priorities, controlling how more than $1 billion in federal aid to needy families is appropriated. 
 ''Those are a no go,'' Mr. Silver said Friday afternoon. 
 A complex proposal to expand early retirement benefits to state workers was also held up along with the other two issues.
 A number of other measures stalled. Mr. Silver said the governor left out $15 million earmarked to repair the Roosevelt Island Tramway after its mechanical failure in April, but Mr. Pataki said in an interview that he would make sure the money eventually came through. 
 Legislation to reform public authority boards also faltered, and legislation pushed by unions related to the Taylor Law, which bans strikes by public employees, appeared unlikely to be signed by the governor.
 The additions to the budget alarmed some fiscal watchdogs. Even though the state's population growth has been stagnant and declining upstate, one fiscal expert, Edmund J. McMahon of the conservative Manhattan Institute, said the state's budget was growing at four times the rate of inflation. 
 ''There's a broad consensus that the burden of government is a problem, yet this budget is spendthrift business as usual,'' he said. 
 The new budget represents the largest increase in spending in 33 years, Mr. McMahon said. Spending of state funds would increase 9 percent, inflation adjusted, compared with 5 percent last year and 4 percent the year before that. 
 Mr. Pataki defended the budget deal, citing new steps that he has taken to curb future Medicaid spending. And he said he had held the line on next year's deficit, which he said had ''come down from about $6 billion in the legislative budget to a little over $3 billion.'' 
 Mr. Pataki, however, was referring to the deficit figure in the Legislature's original budget proposal, not the budget that was actually enacted in April. The final budget plan that took shape on Friday includes a deficit of about $3 billion for next year, which is only slightly lower than the budget passed in April. 
 With the governor's 12th and final regular legislative session winding to a close, the three men who have presided over the state for more than a decade, after spending weeks and months taking shots at one another, paused for some light banter at a news conference to announce the deal to finance the semiconductor plant in the Albany area. 
 Mr. Bruno called the governor ''one of the greatest people who has ever served the state,'' and then referred to his potential presidential run.
 He said Mr. Silver was a ''great partner, a great ally'' and ''a challenge.''
 ''That's why I was up until 3 o'clock this morning. But guess what? He was up until 5:30,'' he said. 
 Mr. Pataki followed Mr. Bruno by saying, ''I'm sure you heard him say the speaker is a handful. That means you're not, Senator?'' 
 As for the generally dyspeptic Mr. Silver, he told the large crowd, ''I don't dream. I deal with these two guys all day, so I don't sleep.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki announcing the agreement yesterday at a news conference in the Capitol in Albany. (Photo by Tim Roske/Associated Press)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); COUNTIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); SALES REBATES (58%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Rebates; Aged; Education and Schools

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; Westchester County (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



507 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Personal Business; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Savings Outweigh Any Stigma at Upscale Consignment Shops

BYLINE: By HILLARY CHURA

 BODY:
Once the purview of fashion aficionados seeking deals on power suits and Prada boots, consignment stores have diversified. Now, just about anyone can find what they are looking for, be it clothes for children and teenagers, wedding dresses, men's wear, plus-size garments, furs, jewelry, formal wear and even sneakers.
 With just four months between her engagement and wedding this month, Renee Salomon of Chicago did not have time to order a gown and wait for it to be made. So she found I Do Designer Bridal Consignment, a consignment store in Chicago, where she paid $1,600 for a Vera Wang A-line that would retail for about $5,000 new. Sure, her dress had been down the aisle before, but it fit her size 12 frame, whereas most off-the-rack dresses were sample gowns that were too small.
''Buying it on consignment, you get dresses from people who are real sizes,'' Mrs. Salomon said. 
 Stores selling consignment, resale and otherwise ''gently used'' shoes and clothing have gone mainstream. The National Association of Resale and Thrift Stores said it had 25,000 stores -- up from about 20,000 five years ago. Used-merchandise stores tallied $7.8 billion in sales in 2002, the latest figure available, up 29 percent from 1997, compared with $3.1 trillion and a 24 percent increase for overall retail sales, according to the Census Bureau, which in addition to measuring the population examines economic statistics.
 Regardless of their specialization or whether they buy merchandise outright or take it on consignment, shops generally prefer recognizable names -- Armani, Burberry, A Pea in the Pod and Gap, depending on their clientele -- that either have never been worn or look new, with no stains, rips or missing buttons. 
 The stores tend to be more upscale than many charity-run thrift stores because their suppliers want cash for their castoffs, not just warm feelings for having donated to a good cause.
 ''With the explosion of prices on designer merchandise, it really is a fabulous solution,'' said Howard Davidowitz, chairman of Davidowitz & Associates, a national retail consultancy and investment bank based in New York. ''And for kids, it's so logical; they grow right out of everything,'' 
 Consignment shops were once mostly mom-and-pop enterprises, but big business is jumping on the resale bandwagon. The Winmark Corporation began franchising Once Upon a Child in 1993 and the teenage-oriented resale shop Plato's Closet in 1999. There are more than 200 Once Upon a Child stores in the United States and Canada, and the company plans to open more at the rate of 10 a year. Plato's Closet has 170 resale shops and could support 500, said its director, Scott Giesinger. He said clothing items from brands like Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister, Old Navy, American Eagle and Gap sold for an average of about $10 each, and represented 80 percent of business.
 Lisa Brown of Marietta, Ga., said she had been reluctant to shop at consignment or resale stores until a neighbor took her to PB&J, a children's and maternity consignment shop in Marietta, about a year ago. Now she goes about once a week to look for clothes for her 2-year-old daughter, Arabella, and her 7-year-old son, Addison.
 ''I guess I thought it wasn't good quality or carefully selected items,'' she said. ''Pretty much everything you pick up looks brand new or is brand new with the tags still on it.'' 
 Style Plus Consignment, a plus-size store in Houston, sells designer names like Dana Buchman and Ellen Tracy as well as brands like Talbots and Lane Bryant, and the items are ideally no more than three years old. Its owner, Ruth Crownover, acknowledged having to overcome the ick factor. 
 ''When people say, 'I don't think I could wear something that someone else has had on,' I say, 'When you try it on down at Neiman's, you don't know who's tried it on before you.' It could've been tried on by 15 people.'' 
 Vanessa Morman of Houston, a marketing consultant with a public relations firm, is a repeat customer at Style Plus. 
 ''Every time I have a business trip, I come here first. They have some serious power suits here,'' she said. A recent purchase was a sleeveless beige Dana Buchman linen dress suit that cost $109. ''Even though I am heavy, I still need to feel businesslike.''
 One of the relatively few men's resale and consignment stores -- Gentlemen's Resale -- has been in business for almost 14 years in Manhattan. With prices that hover around 70 percent off, the store will sell Burberry trench coats for less than $250, Tod's loafers for $110, Giorgio Armani dress shirts for $55 to $110 and Brioni suits for $495. Gary Scheiner, the owner, stays away from Gap and Banana Republic but has expanded to include designer jeans that sell for $55 to $75. 
 At I Do in Chicago, brides-to-be may select from more than 500 consigned gowns, at prices from $200 to $2,000, as well as assorted accessories, like slips and tiaras. The dresses include vintage and couturier gowns as well as some from first-run bridal stores. Some still have price tags attached (sometimes because the bride continued to shop, not because the wedding didn't happen, the owner, Kelly Hamilton, said). Dresses sell for half their original price, and clients range from brides with blindingly big engagement rings and plans for equally extravagant Four Seasons receptions to brides on a budget.
 ''You would think that someone who is sporting a 4-carat diamond solitaire would not be shopping consignment, but brides like to save, and they realize they're in the dress 10 hours and would rather save the money for the honeymoon or a new home,'' Ms. Hamilton said. 
 Vintage Collections, a year-old boutique on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, specializes in 1950's through 70's evening and outerwear, Chanel suits and shoes, and 80's and 90's apparel from designers like Gianni Versace and Franco Moschino. Recent stock included a pair of Versace red vinyl and crushed-velvet thigh-high boots from the 80's or 90's, rhinestone encrusted handbags from the 60's and a long, beaded gold coat from Saks Fifth Avenue, more than 40 years old, that was priced at $1,200.
 Nadine, a stylish Manhattanite who said she refused to buy retail (and refused to give her full name), perused Vintage Collections recently for a gown to wear to a wedding. She prefers vintage wear, she said, because ''a girl can't walk into a regular department store and pick it up.'' 
 Sandra Gary from Sausalito, Calif., visited Vintage Collections with a suitcase of golden dresses from the 1930's, 40's and 50's. They had been in her family's home on Long Island and she wanted to see if Vintage Collections would sell them for her. (Ms. Gary ultimately held off on a decision.)
 ''It's better their life should go on rather than hanging in the attic getting musty,'' Ms. Gary said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kathy Yost, left and above, shops for a wedding dress at I Do Designer Bridal Consignment in Chicago. Besides vintage and designer gowns at savings of thousands of dollars, the shop sells accessories like slips and tiaras. (Photographs by John Gress for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: USED MERCHANDISE STORES (96%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); READY TO WEAR (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (77%); SALES FIGURES (74%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); CENSUS (72%); STATISTICS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Thrift Shops; Sales; Thrift Shops

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); WINMARK CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%) National Assn of Resale and Thrift Stores; Census Bureau

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); WINA (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (81%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (81%)

PERSON: Hillary Chura

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



508 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 538 words

PERSON: Robert W. Mann

HEADLINE: Robert W. Mann, 81, Designer of Devices for Handicapped

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE

 BODY:
Robert W. Mann, a mechanical engineer and designer who helped create advanced prosthetic joints, a Braille printing machine and devices to aid patients in rehabilitation, died on June 16 at his summer home in Moultonborough, N.H. He was 81. 
 The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
Beginning in the 1950's, Dr. Mann was an early practitioner in the field of rehabilitation engineering and helped guide students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the design of sound, vision and navigation systems to unfetter the handicapped.
 Dr. Mann, who worked there for more than four decades, was named an emeritus professor of biomedical engineering in 1992.
 In the 1960's and 70's, Dr. Mann and others at M.I.T. worked on a computer program for translating English text into Braille. The program was part of a larger project to develop a computer-directed Braille embossing machine intended to allow the blind quicker access to printed material as it is published. The result was a successful device, known as M.I.T. Braillemboss, that printed efficiently and has seen broad use.
 Among projects at M.I.T. during the same period, Dr. Mann and his students produced a folding cane that was a low-technology solution to a nonetheless formidable problem for the blind: how to stow a cane quickly when entering a car or other vehicle.
 In the 1960's, Dr. Mann helped produce a complex prosthetic elbow that joined an electromechanical device with remnant muscle tissue, to allow amputees to perform a lifting action. The device, developed by scientists at Massachusetts General Hospital, M.I.T. and other institutions, became known as the ''Boston arm.''
 Dr. Mann was also interested in the mechanics of hip joints, and he studied the pressures created within the joint and upon its cartilage. A colleague and collaborator, Derek Rowell, a professor of mechanical engineering at M.I.T., said that Dr. Mann was prominent in developing a prosthetic hip joint, still in use, that allowed measurements to be taken of stresses and pressures within the joint while it was in motion.
 Robert Wellesley Mann was born in Brooklyn. He initially trained to be a telephone company draftsman, received his bachelor's and master's degrees from M.I.T., and a doctorate in mechanical engineering there in 1957.
 He became a professor of mechanical engineering at M.I.T. in 1963. In 1975, he helped to found the Newman Laboratory for Biomechanics and Human Rehabilitation at M.I.T., and was its director.
 He was a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
 Dr. Mann's wife of 52 years, the former Margaret Florencourt, died in 2002. Mrs. Mann was a first cousin of the writer Flannery O'Connor. After his wife's death, Dr. Mann became chairman of the Flannery O'Connor-Andalusia Foundation, which promotes the study of her work and provides public access to her home, Andalusia. He lived in Lexington, Mass.
 He is survived by a son, Robert W. Mann Jr. of Port Washington, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Catherine L. Mann, an economist, of Great Falls, Va.; a brother, Dr. Kenneth Mann, a biochemist, of Grand Isle, Vt.; two sisters, Helene Madigan of St. Paul and Virginia Swartz of Pittsburgh; and four grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert W. Mann (Photo by Donna Coveney/Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1993)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BIOMECHANICS (78%); BLINDNESS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); WRITERS (67%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%)

Jeremy Pearce

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



509 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Drunk on Oil, and a Bad Hangover Looms

BYLINE: By ERIC MINK. 
Eric Mink is editor of the commentary page and an op-ed columnist for The St. Louis Post-Dispatch.

 BODY:
Only the most rigid of ideologues would argue with the principal themes of ''Addicted to Oil: Thomas L. Friedman Reporting,'' the latest of an occasional series of television documentaries built around the work and personality of Mr. Friedman, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times:
 America's dependence on oil for transportation and consumer products is huge and dangerous. It limits military and foreign policy options, handcuffs the economy and generates a steady stream of revenue that helps finance Muslim terrorism. 
Pollution from the burning of fossil fuels is accelerating global climate changes that have already damaged the environment and could wreak havoc if left unaddressed.
 Inadequate government subsidies for the development of solar and wind power have slowed the emergence of alternative-energy technologies that don't rely on petroleum.
 Other countries are taking the challenge of shedding their oil dependency more seriously than the United States is, and they may enjoy huge economic advantages as a result.
 But while the one-hour program, which has its television premiere tonight on the Discovery Channel, deftly establishes these broad points, content problems emerge as the program fleshes them out. 
 Sloppy production, for example, undermines part of a segment on global warming that was filmed mainly at the National Center for Atmospheric Research outside Boulder, Colo. A senior official at the center, William Collins, tells Mr. Friedman that if the ice in Greenland were to melt, it would mean a 25-foot rise in sea level worldwide. 
 ''What would that do to New York City?'' Mr. Friedman asks.
 ''You would need a really high dike around New York City,'' Mr. Collins replies, as the picture on screen shifts to a computer-animation sequence -- credited to the National Environmental Trust, an advocacy group -- showing Lower Manhattan inundated by rising waters. 
 But a visit to www.net.org/globalwarming/sea--level, the organization's Web site, reveals that this animated sequence actually depicts the projected effects of a storm surge from a Category 2 hurricane after 100 years of global warming has raised water levels around Manhattan by 2.2 feet. 
 Lack of consistency is a problem as well. In a report on the development of cars that run on hydrogen gas, Mr. Friedman is careful to note that creating hydrogen fuel takes enormous amounts of electricity; generating it might well create more pollution than is saved by not burning gasoline in the cars. 
 No such concern is evident, however, in an earlier segment on the substitution of plant-derived ethanol for gasoline. Although not as energy-consuming as the production of hydrogen, producing ethanol requires substantial amounts of energy at various stages of the process, but Mr. Friedman's narrative skips over the subject. 
 Poor editorial choices also make some of the program's interview subjects appear foolish. An early segment, for example, focuses an approving eye on an unusual alliance among traditional political adversaries -- conservative Christians, environmentalists, foreign policy hawks -- over the issue of America's oil dependency. 
 Yet Mr. Friedman, who is credited as series editor, and the producer-director Kenneth Levis illustrate this group's views partly with this jumbled comment from James Woolsey, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, about the United States' flawed energy policies: ''We're being even stupider than what Lenin described when he said, 'The capitalists will sell us the rope with which we hang them.' We're doing much worse than that. We're funding the rope for the hanging of ourselves.'' 
 Regular readers of Mr. Friedman's books and his columns in The Times are likely to enjoy his on-screen persona as the intellectual, fact-finding nerd. Indeed, Mr. Levis spoofs this image in an early segment, laying a bouncy disco soundtrack beneath film of Mr. Friedman's legs maneuvering through the Detroit Auto Show. It's an unmistakable homage to the famous opening scene of John Travolta walking the streets of Brooklyn in the 1977 film ''Saturday Night Fever.'' 
 Later, during the segment on hydrogen fuel cells, Mr. Friedman exclaims, ''You know, I've always wanted to say this, but -- Fill 'er up with hydrogen!'' It's hard to imagine any other television personality, journalist or not, who could deliver that line convincingly.

Addicted to Oil
Thomas L. Friedman Reporting

Discovery Channel, tonight at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time.

Kenneth Levis, producer; Ann Derry, executive producer for The New York Times; Julian P. Hobbs, executive producer for Discovery Channel; Don Baer, executive in charge of production. Produced for Discovery Channel by The New York Times and Discovery Production Group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (84%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WIND ENERGY (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ALCOHOLS (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (75%); ETHANOL (75%); HURRICANES (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); METEOROLOGY (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); ANIMATION (63%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (63%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (62%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (56%); TERRORISM (55%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (51%) Television; Reviews

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (79%) Eric Mink; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GREENLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



510 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Diplomatic Thrust on Arms Mirrors Iran's

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23 

 BODY:
For years North Korea has supplied Iran with missile technology, and late last year the White House told American intelligence agencies to evaluate the danger that the North Koreans might be tempted to sell their nuclear expertise -- or a bomb's worth of plutonium -- to the Iranians.
 But in the past few days, it has become clear that the two countries are also pursuing similar diplomatic strategies. North Korea's threat to launch a long-range ballistic missile seems a clear echo of Iran's recent strategy of resuming production of nuclear fuel. Iran was aiming to extract concessions from the Bush administration, and it has already won some modest diplomatic gains. 
 But for North Korea, both the power and the risks of a move carried out in full view of commercial and spy satellites have now become evident. Either because of bad weather or sudden political indecision in the capital, Pyongyang, the missile has stayed on the launching pad. 
 The very public act of rolling out a new missile -- one that might prove capable of hitting the United States, or, alternatively, might fall into the Pacific -- has succeeded in getting the world to focus on North Korea. That must be seen as progress for the North, after months in which Iran's nuclear program -- far less developed than North Korea's -- has grabbed all the headlines. 
 But the delay, along with warnings from nations around the world about what might happen if North Korea presses the button, has led some to speculate that Kim Jong Il, the country's reclusive leader, may be reconsidering his options. His last missile test, over Japan in 1998, led the Clinton administration into negotiations and a mild relaxation of penalties against the country. But Bush administration officials and Asian diplomats say it is unlikely that North Korea can now extract similar concessions. ''What they are doing right now is very calculated,'' said Gary Samore, who directed the nonproliferation office of the National Security Council under President Clinton. ''They probably view the American offer to talk to Iran last month as an admission of weakness.'' 
 But Mr. Samore, no admirer of the Bush administration's approach to the North, said that even if North Korea was seeking to mimic the Iranian strategy, ''I don't think it will work -- I suspect they are misreading us, again.'' 
 The two countries' influence on each other has been a two-way street. Earlier this year Iran threatened to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and evict all inspectors if it felt it was under too much pressure from the West. North Korea did withdraw from the treaty three years ago.
 A senior administration official who deals with the nuclear programs of both countries, who asked not to be identified because he was discussing intelligence issues, said Friday, ''I think they do pay a lot of attention to how the steps taken by the other work out.'' But he said that the countries have had ''a rocky relationship'' at times, and that threatening missile tests ''has been in the North Korean playbook for some time.''
 The North Koreans know the Iranians, and their weapons programs, intimately. Iran's missiles are based on the North Korean Rodong, a medium-range missile. North Korean engineers are often sighted at Iranian facilities. ''It is widely believed that the North Koreans have offered to sell Taepodong 1 and 2 to Iran, and if the thing works, it might make the Iranians more interested in buying more than blueprints,'' Mr. Samore said. ''This whole test could be good for North Korean sales.'' Taepodong missiles have a much longer range than the Rodong and are capable of carrying larger payloads.
 That has made the North Korea-Iran trading routes a prime target of the administration's Proliferation Security Initiative, and American officials say they foiled an Iranian effort to load one of its cargo planes on North Korean soil. 
 But the study ordered by the White House about whether the two countries might expand their business relationship to nuclear materials ended inconclusively. Just as the American offer to Iran was coming together last month, American satellites over North Korea began spotting the move of the Taepodong 2 missile to the launching pad. And just as the Iranians claimed they had full legal rights under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to produce uranium, the North Koreans insist that they have the right to test missiles, even though they promised a moratorium on such flights in 1999. North Korea's aim for the past five years has been to force the Bush administration into one-on-one talks, something President Bush has always refused to agree to. For the first three years of his administration, he refused to deal with the country at all. That led to the bold move by North Korea in January 2003, when it threw out the inspectors and seized 8,000 spent fuel rods from a storage facility that had been sealed since a 1994 agreement with Mr. Clinton.
 The North claims to have converted all those rods into bomb-grade plutonium, a boast that the administration says it has to take at face value. Ultimately, Mr. Bush came to the table -- but not alone, agreeing to negotiations that also included Japan, China, Russia and South Korea. The North Koreans reluctantly joined the sessions, and signed a statement of principles -- disarmament in return for a list of benefits. But since then, almost everything has fallen apart. The North Koreans have not gone back to the talks, refusing entreaties from China to return until Washington ends financial penalties that it had imposed to stop sales of missiles, drugs and counterfeit dollars. 
 And then the American focus switched to Iran, where the Bush administration signed off last month on an offer to provide Western-made light-water nuclear reactors, promises of economic engagement and a lifting of sanctions, if Iran agreed to suspend its production of uranium.
 That American approach to Iran looked a lot like the now-dead deal the North negotiated with the Clinton administration 12 years ago. ''You could almost hear the North Koreans saying, 'Wait a minute, we can't get in to talk to the Americans, and the Iranians get the whole nine yards,' '' said Robert L. Gallucci, the dean of Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and the lead negotiator of the 1994 accord. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); EVICTION (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (53%) Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); KIM JONG IL (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (79%) North Korea; Iran

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



511 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Supreme Court Rejects Lawsuit Challenging Prime Minister's Visits to War Shrine

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 23 

 BODY:
Japan's Supreme Court rejected a lawsuit on Friday that opposed the prime minister's visits to a controversial Tokyo war shrine, handing an apparent victory to the conservative backers of his visits.
 The decision was the first by the highest court on the annual visits by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to the Yasukuni Shrine, a Shinto complex honoring Japan's war dead, including convicted war criminals.
The visits have brought bitter criticism from China and South Korea that Tokyo remains unrepentant for atrocities it committed during the World War II era. 
 The visits have also been divisive within Japan, where conservatives cheer Mr. Koizumi for displaying a more assertive brand of nationalism, while opponents warn that the country is isolating itself from the rest of Asia.
 ''I think the Supreme Court ruling is appropriate,'' Mr. Koizumi told reporters on Okinawa, where he was attending ceremonies to mark the anniversary of a World War II battle there with American forces. ''I didn't think it was unconstitutional to pay respects at Yasukuni Shrine.''
 The lawsuit dismissed Friday was the first of seven concerning the visits to reach the Supreme Court. In it, relatives of Japanese, Chinese and South Koreans killed in fighting in the 1930's and 40's sought unspecified damages for the visits, which they said violated the constitutional separation of state and religion. 
 The court, which rarely deviates from the government's position on delicate issues, said there was no legal basis for claiming monetary damages. The ruling did not touch on the larger and more difficult question of the visits' constitutionality.
 ''Even if religious and emotional sentiments were hurt by another person's visits,'' Chief Justice Isao Imai wrote, ''damages cannot be immediately sought.''
 The plaintiffs criticized the court for stopping short of deciding the constitutional issue. ''The court turned its back on its responsibility to judge the constitutionality,'' Masaharu Hishiki, one of the plaintiffs, said, according to The Associated Press.
 Shinzo Abe, the chief cabinet secretary, welcomed the ruling as a blow to the visits' critics. ''The government's position was accepted,'' said Mr. Abe, the front-runner to replace Mr. Koizumi when he retires in September. ''This is a ruling by the Supreme Court, so I think it establishes a judicial precedent.''
 Legal scholars said supporters of the visits will probably see the decision as a legal green light for more of them. They also said it will influence lower court judges to rule against other lawsuits opposing shrine visits.
 ''This will make it harder in the future to rule these visits unconstitutional,'' said Shojiro Sakaguchi, a professor of constitutional law at Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo. ''It will also make it easier for Mr. Koizumi to go to Yasukuni again.''
 Mr. Koizumi has visited Yasukuni five times since taking office in 2001, and is widely expected to go once more before stepping down. Newspapers have speculated he may finally fulfill a campaign pledge to visit on Aug. 15, the anniversary of Japan's defeat in World War II. 
 He has so far refrained from visiting on that politically symbolic date, apparently for fear of provoking too strong a reaction from Beijing and Seoul.
 The sprawling shrine, located near the Emperor's palace in central Tokyo, memorializes the 2.5 million people who died in modern Japan's wars, including 14 World War II leaders convicted of high-level war crimes. The shrine also has a museum that denies Japanese soldiers committed atrocities and says they fought to liberate Asia from Western domination.
 The visits have helped Mr. Koizumi build a political base among veterans' organizations and other right-wing groups within his Liberal Democratic Party. But they have gotten a mixed reception from the public, which has shown concern about damaging economic ties with fast-growing China.
 Friday's ruling was applauded by conservatives, who seek to turn Japan into what they call a normal country, with a true armed forces and a strong sense of patriotism. Some on the right said they saw the ruling as another step toward freeing their country from an American-imposed view of history that casts Japan as the war's aggressor.
 ''This is just one small milestone toward Japan's becoming a normal country,'' said Masayuki Takayama, a professor of international relations at Teikyo University in Tokyo. ''The Supreme Court judgment will encourage those who have doubts about the history imposed on us by other countries.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); SUPREME COURTS (93%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); APPEALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); DAMAGES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); POLITICS (78%); JUDGES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) World War II (1939-45); Suits and Litigation; Yasukuni Shrine (Tokyo); Monuments and Memorials; Politics and Government

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%) Martin Fackler; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Japan; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006



512 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: CURRENCY EXCHANGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: How to Get the Best Rate (and Avoid Fees)

BYLINE: By DAVID A. KELLY

 BODY:
IT is one thing to pay a higher than normal price for a drink on the Champs Elysees, but paying more than you need to exchange currency is a real waste of money. For most travelers, the place to start is with an A.T.M. or a bank, where you are most likely to get the best rate. 
 ''We recommend that people use their debit or A.T.M. cards to withdraw money from an A.T.M. as soon as they arrive,'' said Tom Meyers, editor of www.eurocheapo.com, an Internet guide to inexpensive hotels. ''The rates from European banks are almost always lower than going to commercial exchange counters.''
For example, Thomas Cook on Fleet Street in London recently offered an exchange rate of 2.03 percent for U.S. dollars converted to British pounds with no service charge, yielding $:49.26 for $100. The same day, NatWest quoted a rate of 1.9551 percent with no commission, yielding $:51.15 for $100, while HSBC quoted a rate of 1.9766 percent with 2 percent commission, yielding $:49.58 for $100. 
 One thing to be aware of when withdrawing money from an A.T.M. is that it is difficult to know in advance what the specific exchange rate will be. In effect, you have to wait for the charge to go through or for the withdrawal to be debited. In addition, some A.T.M.'s may have fees charged by both the local bank and by your own bank or credit card company, although some United States banks, including Bank of America and Citibank, have relationships with foreign banks and will waive fees at A.T.M.'s belonging to those banks.
 But, if you use your Citibank card to withdraw money from your checking account at a foreign Citibank A.T.M., there's still a foreign exchange fee of 1 percent of the transaction in dollars. 
 Even those fees are less than the fees you'd pay using an A.T.M. to withdraw money from your credit card credit line, since these transactions are cash advances and subject to more fees. For example, for a cash advance from a foreign A.T.M. with a Chase Amazon.com credit card, Chase charges a 3 percent cash advance fee (minimum $10) on top of a 3 percent foreign currency transaction fee, along with 23.99 percent variable interest rate accrued daily. As for exchanging money at a hotel? Mr. Meyers said he tells people to avoid it: ''You'll get the highest transaction fees and the worst exchange rates.'' 
 For purchasing goods or services, credit cards frequently offer the best rates, although it can be hard to determine what they are. ''The process is not transparent,'' said Tim Jarrell, publisher of Fodors Travel Publications. ''Most people don't know until they get their credit card bill how much they'll be charged for foreign purchases.'' 
 For example, while MasterCard and Visa charge a 1 percent fee for processing foreign purchases, banks may (and often do) charge an additional 1 or 2 percent. Save money by picking a credit card with the most favorable fees for international purchases. For example, American Express and Juniper Bank charge just 2 percent, and Capital One is especially traveler-friendly, with no additional surcharge, not even the 1 percent charged by MasterCard and Visa.
 With hard currency exchanges, some on-the-fly research can be particularly valuable. ''If you're changing a lot of money, check out rates at the currency exchange centers and the banks,'' said Colm Hanratty, editor of hostelworld.com. ''Ask them what their exchange rate is and how much their commissions are. It's a 60-second question that could save you $5 to $10 each time.''
 You typically want to do as few exchanges as possible. ''Each exchange involves processing, servicing and/or administrative fees; some exchange locations even give breaks on larger transactions,'' said John Brancato, managing partner of V. Puente Currency Services, an operator of a Travelex Worldwide exchange service at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. According to Mr. Brancato, Travelex's currency exchange provides a lower service fee for larger transactions -- for a $100 exchange the service fee is 5.5 percent while it is generally about 1.5 percent for transactions over $500. Some exchanges may even offer promotions such as a ''buy back'' program that allows consumers to sell their leftover currency back to the company at a favorable rate, in some cases waiving the service fees. For example, upon returning from a trip, for a $7.50 fee, a customer can exchange up to the amount of the original purchase without a service fee, guaranteed at the same rate. The return transaction has to take place at the same location as the first. 
 Traveler's checks and the new prepaid traveler's check cards are another option. The American Express Travelers Cheque Card ($14.95 issuance fee) is a reloadable, prepaid card that is not linked to your bank account and can be replaced if lost or stolen. The card requires an initial minimum deposit of $300 and sets a maximum balance of $2,750; the funds can be purchased in dollars, euros or pounds. A.T.M. withdrawals using the card are a relatively low $2.50, excluding individual banks' fees. However, traveler's checks and plastic may not be the solution when traveling to remote locations.
 ''WHEN traveling in China, once you leave the large cities, you could have a very difficult if not impossible time exchanging traveler's checks for local currency. In some cases, if you have the wrong types of traveler's checks, merchants may think they're fake and not cash them,'' said Seth Hishmeh, co-founder of USAS Technologies, a multinational IT consulting firm, and a frequent traveler. ''Additionally, when traveling in some countries such as China, the credit card systems outside of major cities frequently do not accept Visa, Amex and other standard cards used in the U.S.''
 Make sure you check ahead to learn what bank cards or traveler's checks will be accepted at your destination, and have a backup plan. ''The main thing is to realize that different things work better in different places,'' said Edward Hasbrouck, author of ''The Practical Nomad: How to Travel Around the World.'' 
 ''That's why you should take money in a mix of forms -- an A.T.M. card, a credit card, some traveler's checks, some large-denomination bills like $100 for changing, some small-denominations (U.S. $1 through U.S. $20 bills for small purchases directly in dollars), rather than counting on any one method to work everywhere,'' he said. 
 Of course, cash is still king in many places. ''You may be able to get discounts by paying in local currency,'' Mr. Hishmeh said. ''For example, when traveling in India you can often save money by paying in their local currency and getting the local rate; paying in U.S. dollars or traveler's checks will cause you to pay much more.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on June 25 about getting the best currency exchange rates abroad misstated three examples of exchange rates for converting United States dollars to British pounds. Thomas Cook recently offered an exchange rate of $2.03 converted to $:1, not 2.03 percent; Natwest quoted a rate of $1.9551 to $:1, not 1.9551 percent; and HSBC quoted a rate of $1.9766, not 1.9766 percent.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lara Tomlin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (88%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (86%); US DOLLAR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLISHING (70%) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); TCG (LSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: David A Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



513 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Income Inequality, And Its Cost

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
INEQUALITY has always been part of the American economy, but the gap between the rich and the poor has recently been widening at an alarming rate. Today, more than 40 percent of total income is going to the wealthiest 10 percent, their biggest share of the nation's pie in at least 65 years. The social and political repercussions of this disparity have been widely debated, but what about the effects on the economy? 
 Oddly, despite its position in the political debate, the question has received little attention from economists. Mostly, they have focused on measuring income inequality and establishing its causes. Some research has been done, however, and the results, including insights from related disciplines like psychology and political science, are disturbing. 
Start with recent findings in the field of public health. Some scientists believe that growing inequality leads to more health problems in the overall population -- a situation that can reduce workers' efficiency and increase national spending on health, diverting resources away from productive endeavors like saving and investment.
 Sir Michael Marmot, a professor of epidemiology and public health at University College London and director of its International Institute for Society and Health, has spent most of his career studying the link between inequality and health around the world. In a much-publicized paper published in May in The Journal of the American Medical Association, Sir Michael and three colleagues studied health in the United States and in Britain. They found that at various points throughout the social hierarchy, there was more illness in the United States than in Britain. 
 Sir Michael theorizes that a reason for the disparity was the greater inequalities in the United States and heavier stresses resulting from them.
 Other researchers have focused on how income inequality can breed corruption. That may be especially true in democracies, where wealth and political power can be more easily exchanged, according to a study of 129 countries by Jong-Sung You, a graduate student at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and Sanjeev Khagram, a professor of public affairs at the University of Washington in Seattle.
 Corruption, of course, can hurt growth by reducing the efficient allocation of public and private resources and by distorting investment. That may end up creating asset price bubbles.
 Unchecked inequality may also tend to create still more inequality. Edward L. Glaeser, a professor of economics at Harvard, argues that as the rich become richer and acquire greater political influence, they may support policies that make themselves even wealthier at the expense of others. In a paper published last July, he said, ''If the rich can influence political outcomes through lobbying activities or membership in special interest groups, then more inequality could lead to less redistribution rather than more.'' 
 In the United States, there is plenty of evidence that this has been occurring. Bush administration policies that have already reduced the estate tax and cut the top income and capital gains tax rates benefit the well-to-do. It seems hardly an accident that the gap between rich and poor has widened. 
 There may be other ways in which growing inequality hurts the economy. Steven Pressman, professor of economics at Monmouth University in West Long Branch, N.J., has identified a psychological effect that may lower productivity and reduce efficiency. Professor Pressman draws on the work of Daniel Kahneman, a Nobel laureate in economics, and his experiments on fairness. One experiment, called the ultimatum game, involves two people with a fixed sum of money that must be divided between them. One person is to propose any division he likes; the other can only accept or reject it. If the division is accepted, each person receives the proposed amount; if it is rejected, neither gets anything.
 It might be expected that a rational individual in the role of divider would take a large part of the money and that rational receivers would accept a small portion rather than walk away with nothing. But it turned out that when faced with an offer they considered unfair, most people rejected it outright. Perhaps in anticipation of this, many dividers made substantial offers.
 Professor Pressman relates those results to economic behavior in corporate America. ''If a C.E.O.'s salary is going through the roof and workers are getting pay cuts, what will happen?'' he said. ''Workers can't outright reject the offer -- they need to work -- but they can reject it by working less hard and not caring about the quality of what they are producing. Then the whole efficiency of the firm is affected.''
 THE effects of income inequality aren't entirely negative. Without some inequality, there would be little economic incentive to earn more. And some researchers, particularly advocates of supply-side theories, predict that as the rich get richer, their increased wealth will be used for greater savings and investment, thereby bolstering growth. The latest data on the American economy, though, do not seem to support this prediction.
 Savings among top income earners have actually declined. According to the Federal Reserve's latest Survey of Consumer Finance, the percentage of families in the top 10 percent by income that saved anything at all dropped to 80.6 percent in 2004 from 84.3 percent in 2001. And this was during a period when President Bush cut top marginal income tax rates and taxes on capital gains and dividends.
 The trend of growing income inequality may eventually be reversed, but at the moment, current policies appear to be worsening the situation. If more researchers turned their attention to the subject, they would find plenty to explore.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Rich Get Richer, Again''Not since World War II have the top 10 percent of earners had such a large share of total income. The shares of those in the top 1 percent and top 0.1 percent have risen to levels not found in more than 60 years.Graph tracks the share of income from 1917-2004.Top 10%: 42.9%*Top 1%: 16.2%*Top 0.1%: 6.9%**Latest data as of 2004(Source by Thomas Piketty of Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris and Emmanuel Saez of University of California, Berkeley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (69%); ESTATE TAX (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); WORLD WAR II (59%) United States Economy; Income

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



514 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Homeland Insecurity

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FREEDLAND. 
Jonathan Freedland is an editorial page columnist for The Guardian of London.

 BODY:
FAILED STATES
 The Abuse of Power and the 
 Assault on Democracy.
 By Noam Chomsky.
 311 pp. Metropolitan Books/
 Henry Holt & Company. $24.
THIS latest philippic from Noam Chomsky sets out to overturn every belief about their country Americans hold dear. The self-image of the United States as a beacon of freedom and democracy, lighting the way for the rest of the world, is a lie, Chomsky says, and it always has been. ''Failed States: The Abuse of Power and the Assault on Democracy'' aims to expose the rot of the shining city on a hill, from its foundations to its steeples. 
 At the book's center is the avowed American mission to spread democracy throughout the world. Chomsky concedes that, rhetorically at least, this has been the nation's goal since Woodrow Wilson, but he insists the words are utterly at odds with American deeds. In its many foreign interventions, Washington has acted to frustrate the will of the people, often by supporting those engaged in the most chilling violence. The United States has overthrown democratic governments in Iran, Chile, Guatemala ''and a long list of others.'' Elsewhere it has paid lip service to procedural democracy while doing all it could to rig the outcome. There is, Chomsky says, a ''rational consistency'' to this inconsistency between words and actions. The record shows that the United States does indeed back democracy abroad -- ''if and only if it is consistent with strategic and economic interests.'' 
 These are not, Chomsky insists, the interests of the American people, but of the corporate elite that dominates the country and its policy making. For, he says, the United States is not a democracy, if that word is reserved for a society where the people's will is done. 
 Take health care. Chomsky has the data to show that the American system is economically inefficient, much costlier than more socialized models abroad and deeply unpopular with a majority of Americans, who are ready to pay for increased government intervention even if that means higher taxes. That democratic majority remains unheard, however, because ''the pharmaceutical and financial industries and other private powers are strongly opposed.'' That is why the mainstream news media, a perennial Chomsky target, say publicly funded health care lacks political support: the majority might back it, but not the people who count. 
 Chomsky employs the same linguistic deconstruction for media definitions of prosperity. The experts may say the economy is healthy, as it is for the top 1 percent, whose wealth rose by 42 percent from 1983 to 1998. But it is not healthy for the majority, whose wages have stagnated or declined in real terms, nor for those going hungry in America because they cannot afford to buy food. 
 Much of this will be familiar to veteran Chomsky readers, but in this book he supplies a new twist. What, he asks, is a failed state? It is one that fails ''to provide security for the population, to guarantee rights at home or abroad, or to maintain functioning (not merely formal) democratic institutions.'' On that definition, Chomsky argues, the United States is the world's biggest failed state. This sounds like a hyperbolic charge, ludicrously overblown -- but he goes far toward substantiating it. He is especially strong on pointing up Washington's woeful efforts to protect Americans from terror attacks, in one instance lavishing more resources on the imaginary threat from Cuba than on the all-too-real menace of Al Qaeda. 
 And if a rogue state is defined by its defiance of international law, then the United States, Chomsky says, has long been the rogues' rogue. It has ignored the Geneva Conventions by its treatment of prisoners at Guantanamo and of Iraqi civilians in Falluja; violated the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty by its development of new weapons when it should be making good-faith efforts to get rid of the old ones; flouted the United Nations Charter, which allows the use of force only when the ''necessity of self-defense'' is ''instant'' and ''overwhelming,'' standards hardly met by the 2003 invasion of Iraq; and defied the World Court, which in the 1980's held Washington guilty of ''unlawful use of force'' against Nicaragua, a ruling the United States simply rejected. Scholars like to speak of American exceptionalism, but with Chomsky the phrase takes on new meaning: America exempts itself from the rules it demands for everyone else. This is not a double standard, but flows from what Chomsky, quoting Adam Smith, calls the single standard: the ''vile maxim of the masters of mankind: . . . All for ourselves, and nothing for other people.''
 Throughout ''Failed States'' Chomsky writes in this vein of fierce excoriation. No one is exempt, according to him. The whole system is rotten, including traditional liberal heroes. Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman and John Kennedy are all faulted for their pursuit of international dominance, from Roosevelt's plans to firebomb Japanese cities more than a year before Pearl Harbor to Kennedy's war in Vietnam. Even the framers of the Constitution are condemned. Chomsky disapprovingly quotes James Madison's insistence that the new Republic should ''protect the minority of the opulent against the majority.'' He doesn't much like The New York Times either. 
 If there is a crumb of comfort for his readers, it is this: Americans are not a uniquely evil people. On the contrary, imperialists throughout history have behaved in the same way, from the Greeks to the British, always telling themselves they were driven by noble purpose -- even as their elites wreaked havoc for their own material gain.
 There are flaws in this book. It is dense, with almost every paragraph broken up by extensive quotations. And it is unrelenting, the invective interrupted only by the occasional flash of bitter wit. Like any polemicist, Chomsky is selective in his material: for example, he cites rulings by the Israeli Supreme Court that have injured Palestinians rights, but ignores those that have respected them. 
 Too often Chomsky fails to cast those outside the United States as active moral agents in their own right. He argues, with justification, that the American invasion of Iraq has unleashed a wave of terrorism in that country -- but he has little interest in the bombers and beheaders themselves. Their actions are merely the inevitable products of decisions taken in Washington. He is also too airily dismissive of liberal interventionists, those who would like to see American power deployed to thwart genocide; in Chomsky's eyes, they are mere patsies for imperialism. 
 Similarly, his view of politics can be too mechanistic; sometimes he writes as if whole national debates are mere staged distractions, planned by the powers that be. And while he spends 260-odd pages presenting his critique, he offers only two paragraphs of solutions (an imbalance, it should be said, he is aware of). 
 Still, maybe it's sufficient for a prophet to tell the people they are in a wilderness; he shouldn't be expected to point the exact way out. Chomsky's ambitions, after all, are high enough. It's hard to imagine any American reading this book and not seeing his country in a new, and deeply troubling, light.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph from Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (78%); LINGUISTICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: Jonathan Freedland; Noam Chomsky

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



515 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: The Money Issue

 BODY:
Kudos for a comprehensive issue on the increasingly trenchant topic of America's debt (June 11). I found Niall Ferguson's article ''Reasons to Worry'' of particular interest. His comparison of the national debt to an adjustable-rate mortgage made the problem uncomfortably real, since most of us with such mortgages are dreading the date our teaser rates change into real rates. 
 One crucial point that could conceivably alter Ferguson's dire prediction that our creditors will desert us for others, leaving the United States no choice but to borrow at ''subprime'' rates, is the lack of viable alternative investments. Asthe size of our deficit and the size of our mortgage debtcontinue toskyrocket, it isincreasingly evident that the creditorsfeeding these gigantic mouths will have no choice but to continue.

Maureen Bolton
 Cedar Rapids, Iowa

I want to compliment you on your debt-focused issue. I thoroughly enjoyed reading every article on this timely (and yet disturbingly historic) topic.

Justine Bateman
 Studio City, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Left: Christoph Niemann
 Right: Daniel Jenett.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); SUBPRIME LENDING (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%) Credit

PERSON: maureen bolton; justine bateman

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



516 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Black Cloud

BYLINE: By COREY S. POWELL. 
Corey S. Powell is the executive editor at Discover magazine.

 BODY:
BIG COAL
 The Dirty Secret Behind 
 America's Energy Future.
 By Jeff Goodell.
 324 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $25.95.
There is perhaps no greater act of denial in modern life than sticking a plug into an electric outlet. No thinking person can eat a hamburger without knowing it was once a cow, or drink water from the tap without recognizing, at least dimly, that its journey began in some distant reservoir. Electricity is different. Fully sanitized of any hint of its origins, it pours out of the socket almost like magic. 
 In his new book, Jeff Goodell breaks the spell with a single number: 20. That's how many pounds of coal each person in the United States consumes, on average, every day to keep the electricity flowing. Despite its outdated image, coal generates half of our electricity, far more than any other source. Demand keeps rising, thanks in part to our appetite for new electronic gadgets and appliances; with nuclear power on hold and natural gas supplies tightening, coal's importance is only going to increase. As Goodell puts it, ''our shiny white iPod economy is propped up by dirty black rocks.'' 
 Coal has become near-synonymous with electricity because it is cheap and abundant. A pile of coal containing one million B.T.U.'s worth of energy costs $1.70. The equivalent amount of natural gas runs about $9. All electricity looks the same, so why pay more? Even by Goodell's explicitly conservative estimates, America has enough coal to keep its power plants humming for decades to come. And compared with prospecting for oil, finding the black rock is a snap. In Wyoming's Powder River basin the coal seams run 50 to 100 feet thick and lie so close to the surface they can be scoured in open-pit mines.
 Unfortunately, coal is also dirty and dangerous. One of the highlights of ''Big Coal'' is Goodell's outraged account of the catastrophic 2002 flooding of a mine in Quecreek, Pa., run by PBS Coals. His story follows Randy Fogle and Blaine Mayhugh, two of nine workers who survived. Mayhugh, shattered by the experience, left to become a maintenance engineer at a wind farm. Fogle, who came from a long line of miners, returned to the work that had already taken the lives of his grandfather and his wife's grandfather. PBS Coals eventually paid a $14,100 fine for negligence that may have triggered the accident while receiving more than $500,000 from the state for costs associated with the rescue operation.
 In the world of coal, that counts as a happy ending. About a month ago, an underground explosion killed five workers in Kentucky's Darby Mine No. 1. Coming on the heels of the widely publicized deaths of 12 workers in another coal mine explosion in Sago, W.Va., on Jan. 2, the latest mishap has everyone from Ted Kennedy to Gov. Ernie Fletcher of Kentucky crying out for better mine safety. There's a long way to go. More than 104,000 Americans died digging out coal between 1900 and 2005; twice as many may have died from black lung. The fatality rate in coal mining is almost 60 percent higher than it is in oil and gas extraction.
 For all that, mining coal probably takes a lot fewer lives than burning it. Although coal-fired power plants generally keep getting cleaner, they contribute about three-fifths of all sulfur dioxide, one-third of all mercury, and one-fifth of all nitrogen oxide emissions in the United States. Air pollution's precise health effects are notoriously hard to quantify, but its links to heart attacks, lung disease and cancer are well established. ''Big Coal'' includes a chilling quotation from Joel Schwartz, a public health researcher who produced some of the first detailed studies of the toxic effects of air pollution: ''I see more people dying of particle air pollution than are dying of AIDS, and I need to call people's attention to that.'' 
 Goodell's journey inevitably leads to the most dramatic and contentious consequence of coal consumption, global warming. Coal accounts for nearly 40 percent of America's carbon dioxide emissions; it provides more than two-thirds of the energy for China, the world's fastest-opening CO2 spigot. Most climate scientists agree that global temperatures are likely to increase between 2 degrees and 10 degrees Fahrenheit over the coming century. Such warming could trigger a sea-level rise of two to seven feet, coastal flooding, extreme weather and regional drought. Just protecting the United States coast against rising waters would cost hundreds of billions of dollars. 
 So what is to be done? Goodell's writing, so fiery and committed through the narrative parts of ''Big Coal,'' turns oddly tentative when it comes time to endorse solutions. He waves off green dreams like wind and solar electricity. He pins much of his hopes on a kind of national psychotherapy program to ''change our thinking'' and ''make the invisible visible,'' which translates into a vague endorsement of new emissions taxes and regulations.
 Goodell does identify two specific, promising solutions: carbon trading and carbon sequestration. Carbon trading defines the cost of pumping carbon dioxide into the air and lets the market choose the best way to reduce emissions. Sequestration is an experimental technique for snatching carbon dioxide out of the power plant and pumping it into the ground -- a technique that dovetails with a highly efficient new way of burning coal, known as the integrated gassification combined cycle. 
 These are plausible near-term strategies, but Goodell ignores other technologies that could radically rewrite the rules of the energy game. Coal can be used to synthesize hydrogen, for instance. That in itself isn't much of a solution -- the process still emits carbon dioxide -- but once the infrastructure is in place it would become much easier to use solar and wind power (or nuclear, for that matter) to make zero-carbon hydrogen. 
 Looking farther ahead, fusion might provide the kind of clean, abundant power that could finally wean us off finite fossil fuels. Last month the European Union, Russia, Japan, China, India, South Korea and the United States signed an agreement to build an experimental thermonuclear reactor in southern France starting in 2007. Even if it succeeds, the $5.9 billion reactor will be just a proof of concept, with commercial fusion power still decades away. But if we don't reach for such lofty goals, we may eventually find ourselves moving past denial into the next stage: depression.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COAL MINING (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (86%); SURFACE MINING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); WIND ENERGY (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (72%); LITERATURE (70%); MINE WORKERS (67%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (67%); RIVERS (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Corey S Powell; Jeff Goodell

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



517 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: The End of Authorship

BYLINE: By John Updike. 
John Updike's most recent novel is ''Terrorist.'' This essay is adapted from his address to booksellers at the Book Expo convention held last month in Washington.

 BODY:
Booksellers, you are the salt of the book world. You are on the front line where, while the author cowers in his opium den, you encounter -- or ''interface with,'' as we say now -- the rare and mysterious Americans who are willing to plunk down $25 for a book. Bookstores are lonely forts, spilling light onto the sidewalk. They civilize their neighborhoods. At my mother's side I used to visit the two stores in downtown Reading, Pa., a city then of 100,000, and I still recall their names and locations -- the Book Mart, at Sixth Street and Court, and the Berkshire News, on Fifth Street, in front of the trolley stop that would take us home to Shillington. 
When I went away to college, I marveled at the wealth of bookstores around Harvard Square. In addition to the Coop and various outlets where impecunious students like myself could buy tattered volumes polluted by someone else's underlinings and marginalia, there were bookstores that catered to the Cambridge bourgeoisie, the professoriate, and those elite students with money and reading time to spare. The Grolier, specializing in modern poetry, occupied a choice niche on Plympton Street, and over on Boylston there was the Mandrake, a more spacious sanctum for books of rare, pellucid and modernist water. In the Mandrake -- presided over by a soft-voiced short man, with brushed-back graying hair -- there were English books, Faber & Faber and Victor Gollancz, books with purely typographical jackets and cloth-covered boards warping from the damp of their trans-Atlantic passage, and art books, too glossy and expensive even to glance into, and of course New Directions books, modest in format and delicious in their unread content.
 After Harvard, I went to Oxford for a year, and browsed for dazed hours in the rambling treasury, on the street called the Broad, of Blackwell's -- shelves of Everyman's and Oxford Classics, and the complete works, jacketed in baby-blue paper, of Thomas Aquinas, in Latin and English! Then I came to New York, when Fifth Avenue still seemed lined with bookstores -- the baronial Scribner's, with the central staircase and the scrolled ironwork of its balconies, and the Doubleday's a few blocks on, with an ascending spiral staircase visible through plate glass.
 Now I live in a village-like corner of a small New England city that holds, mirabile dictu, an independent bookstore, one of the few surviving in the long coastal stretch between Marblehead and Newburyport. But I live, it seems, in a fool's paradise. Last month, The New York Times Magazine published a lengthy article that gleefully envisioned the end of the bookseller, and indeed of the writer. Written by Kevin Kelly, identified as the ''senior maverick'' at Wired magazine, the article describes a glorious digitalizing of all written knowledge. Google's plan, announced in December 2004, to scan the contents of five major research libraries and make them searchable, according to Kelly, has resurrected the dream of the universal library. ''The explosive rise of the Web, going from nothing to everything in one decade,'' he writes, ''has encouraged us to believe in the impossible again. Might the long-heralded great library of all knowledge really be within our grasp?'' 
 Unlike the libraries of old, Kelly continues, ''this library would be truly democratic, offering every book to every person.'' The anarchic nature of the true democracy emerges bit by bit. ''Once digitized, books can be unraveled into single pages or be reduced further, into snippets of a page,'' Kelly writes. ''These snippets will be remixed into reordered books and virtual bookshelves. Just as the music audience now juggles and reorders songs into new albums (or 'playlists,' as they are called in iTunes), the universal library will encourage the creation of virtual 'bookshelves' -- a collection of texts, some as short as a paragraph, others as long as entire books, that form a library shelf's worth of specialized information. And as with music playlists, once created, these 'bookshelves' will be published and swapped in the public commons. Indeed, some authors will begin to write books to be read as snippets or to be remixed as pages.''
 The economic repercussions of this paradise of freely flowing snippets are touched on with a beguiling offhandedness, as a matter of course, a matter of an inexorable Marxist unfolding. As the current economic model disappears, Kelly writes, the ''basis of wealth'' shifts to ''relationships, links, connection and sharing.'' Instead of selling copies of their work, writers and artists can make a living selling ''performances, access to the creator, personalization, add-on information, the scarcity of attention (via ads), sponsorship, periodic subscriptions -- in short, all the many values that cannot be copied. The cheap copy becomes the 'discovery tool' that markets these other intangible valuables.''
 This is, as I read it, a pretty grisly scenario. ''Performances, access to the creator, personalization,'' whatever that is -- does this not throw us back to the pre-literate societies, where only the present, live person can make an impression and offer, as it were, value? Have not writers, since the onset of the Gutenberg revolution, imagined that they already were, in their written and printed texts, giving an ''access to the creator'' more pointed, more shapely, more loaded with aesthetic and informational value than an unmediated, unpolished personal conversation? Has the electronic revolution pushed us so far down the path of celebrity as a summum bonum that an author's works, be they one volume or 50, serve primarily as his or her ticket to the lecture platform, or, since even that is somewhat hierarchical and aloof, a series of one-on-one orgies of personal access?
 In my first 15 or 20 years of authorship, I was almost never asked to give a speech or an interview. The written work was supposed to speak for itself, and to sell itself, sometimes even without the author's photograph on the back flap. As the author is gradually retired from his old responsibilities of vicarious confrontation and provocation, he has grown in importance as a kind of walking, talking advertisement for the book -- a much more pleasant and flattering duty, it may be, than composing the book in solitude. Authors, if I understand present trends, will soon be like surrogate birth mothers, rented wombs in which a seed implanted by high-powered consultants is allowed to ripen and, after nine months, be dropped squalling into the marketplace.
 In imagining a huge, virtually infinite wordstream accessed by search engines and populated by teeming, promiscuous word snippets stripped of credited authorship, are we not depriving the written word of its old-fashioned function of, through such inventions as the written alphabet and the printing press, communication from one person to another -- of, in short, accountability and intimacy? Yes, there is a ton of information on the Web, but much of it is egregiously inaccurate, unedited, unattributed and juvenile. The electronic marvels that abound around us serve, surprisingly, to inflame what is most informally and noncritically human about us -- our computer screens stare back at us with a kind of giant, instant ''Aw, shucks,'' disarming in its modesty, disquieting in its diffidence.
 The printed, bound and paid-for book was -- still is, for the moment -- more exacting, more demanding, of its producer and consumer both. It is the site of an encounter, in silence, of two minds, one following in the other's steps but invited to imagine, to argue, to concur on a level of reflection beyond that of personal encounter, with all its merely social conventions, its merciful padding of blather and mutual forgiveness. Book readers and writers are approaching the condition of holdouts, surly hermits who refuse to come out and play in the electronic sunshine of the post-Gutenberg village. ''When books are digitized,'' Kelly ominously promises, ''reading becomes a community activity. . . . The universal library becomes one very, very, very large single text: the world's only book.'' 
 Books traditionally have edges: some are rough-cut, some are smooth-cut, and a few, at least at my extravagant publishing house, are even top-stained. In the electronic anthill, where are the edges? The book revolution, which, from the Renaissance on, taught men and women to cherish and cultivate their individuality, threatens to end in a sparkling cloud of snippets.
 So, booksellers, defend your lonely forts. Keep your edges dry. Your edges are our edges. For some of us, books are intrinsic to our sense of personal identity.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); POETRY (73%); OPIUM (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%) Books and Literature; Book Trade; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: Wired (Magazine)

PERSON: John Updike; Kevin Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



518 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: What the Fed Is Up to, and Why You Shouldn't Fret

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHILE there is a consensus that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates by another quarter-point this week, there is disagreement over whether the Fed will do the same at its next meeting in August.
 Whether rates go up one or two more times is a big deal to Wall Street economists, whose job includes measuring marginal changes in the economy -- information that can then be used to engineer short-term trades.
But for long-term, buy-and-hold investors, the debate about whether the Fed will lift its target for the federal funds rate to 5.25 percent or 5.5 percent is a lot of sound and fury that signifies very little. In fact, there is a strong case that long-term investors should ignore the noise of the current rate debate and begin preparing for the next phase of the economic cycle by diversifying and dialing down the risk in their portfolios.
 ''If the success of your investment strategy is based on a quarter-point difference in the federal funds rate, then you've got serious problems,'' said Greg Schultz, a principal at Asset Allocation Advisors, a financial planning firm in Walnut Creek, Calif. 
 Some investors may be paying close attention to the Fed because they think that once it pauses, the stock market will have an all-clear sign to resume its bull run. That was certainly the case in 1995, when the Dow Jones industrial average rallied more than 40 percent in the 12 months after the last Fed rate increase that year. But basing your strategy on when the Fed is likely to pause is market-timing, which long-term investors eschew.
 Moreover, Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, said she doubted that a pause in rate increases would be ''an elixir to the markets'' this time around. That is because stocks have already risen substantially during the last two years of Fed tightening.
 Even after accounting for the market sell-off that began in May, the Russell 1000 index has still risen nearly 8 percent, annualized, since the Fed started lifting rates at the end of June 2004. And the Russell 2000 index of small stocks has gained nearly 10 percent a year, on average, during that time.
 This does not mean that individual investors should disregard the economic cycle entirely. But for long-term investors, ''which way the wind is blowing is much more important than how much longer this interest rate wind will blow,'' Mr. Schultz said.
 While Wall Street economists debate exactly how many more rate increases are in the works, a majority of money managers now believe that the current economic expansion is in its final innings.
 In fact, many market watchers have already begun discussing when the Fed will have to start trimming rates to jump-start an economy that it is now slowing down.
 Merrill Lynch economists see at least a 40 percent chance of recession next year, and they predict that the Fed will have to cut short-term interest rates sometime in the first quarter of 2007.
 Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, says he does not think that a full-blown recession is likely because ''businesses are in fantastic financial shape and corporate profits are still going through the roof.'' 
 But he, too, said he believed that the Fed might have to start trimming rates in early 2007, possibly in the spring, as the economy slowed. A rate cut could come even sooner, he said, if the central bank's aggressiveness in raising rates this year causes major problems for the financial markets.
 While it's unclear whether we are in store for a hard landing -- a recession -- or a soft one, many strategists are bracing for some kind of landing in the next several months. And investors should be mindful that transitions from landings to takeoffs often last just a matter of months, not years.
 Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, recently studied what he called the ''plateau period,'' or the time between a Fed rate increase and the first in a new series of interest rate cuts.
 Since 1971, there have been eight such turning points in the economy. On average, the time between the end of a tightening cycle and the start of a new easing cycle has been only 7.3 months. Twice in recent history, the Fed raised rates only once before easing. ''If you take out those one-and-out situations, the spread between the last hike and the first decline is only 5.5 months, on average,'' Mr. Stovall said.
 It is way too early to tell if the current Fed path will follow the historical averages. Maury N. Harris, chief United States economist at UBS Securities, predicts that the Fed will pause after its August meeting, and will begin cutting rates around five or six months later. The transition may be even shorter, he said, if there is a significant slowdown in the housing market that further cools the economy.
 The bottom line is this: It's time for investors to pay attention to the plateau period that's coming -- and perhaps even the next economic expansion -- rather than worrying about how many more rate increases are ahead.
 So what works and doesn't during these plateaus? If history is a guide, this is not a good time to be betting on growth. In fact, highly cyclical sectors of the market -- such as energy, industrials and basic materials stocks -- have all lost money during these in-between periods. The basic materials sector, in fact, has been the worst-performing sector of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in plateau periods, losing 7 percent, on average, during these stretches, according to S.& P.
 Instead of trying to ride once-hot sectors, investors would be wise to diversify their holdings. The broad S.& P. 500, for instance, has actually risen 3 percent, on average, in these periods.
 Traditional defensive sectors have performed even better during these transitions. Health care stocks have rallied 10 percent, on average, in these periods going back to 1971, according to S.& P. And the consumer staples stocks in the S.& P. 500 have risen 8 percent.
 But there are also other ways to play defense. For instance, there is no harm in building up your cash position, especially at a time when cash is offering yields that are competitive with bonds. ''You don't have to shift into defensive mode consciously,'' said Mr. Schultz of Asset Allocation Advisors. ''You can do it on a case-by-case basis whenever you run into difficulty finding safe stocks to invest in.''
 Long-term investors should also be assembling wish lists of high-quality stocks that may be too pricey in today's market, Mr. Stovall said. There may be opportunities to step into such investments at cheaper prices after the current economic expansion ends.
 ''There are some storm clouds ahead,'' Mr. Stovall said. ''So what can you do? You have to just batten down the hatches and try to ride out the storm while looking forward to sunnier skies.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Plateau Performance''The period after a Federal Reserve rate climb and before the first in a new series of rate cuts is sometimes known as a plateau. For the most part, the stock market has gained during such periods.*RATE INCREASE PERIOD: July '71 - Apr. '74MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 8S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: -24.1%RATE INCREASE PERIOD: Aug. '77 - Feb. '80MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 3S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: -2.1RATE INCREASE PERIOD: Sept. '80 - May '81MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 5S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: -8.1RATE INCREASE PERIOD: April '84MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 7S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: 2.2RATE INCREASE PERIOD: Sept. '87 to Feb. '89MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 4S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: 10.1RATE INCREASE PERIOD: Feb. '94 to Feb. '95MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 5S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU:15.3RATE INCREASE PERIOD: March 1997MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 18S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: 34.3RATE INCREASE PERIOD: June '99 to May '00MONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 8S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: -3.8RATE INCREASE PERIOD: AVERAGEMONTHS OF PLATEAU BEFORE RATE CUT: 7.3S.&P. 500 PERFORMANCE DURING PLATEAU: 3.0*Based on the discount rate before 1990.(Source by Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%) Stocks and Bonds; Credit; United States Economy; Interest Rates

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



519 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 25, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	2	1	THE HUSBAND, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) A man whose wife is kidnapped has 60 hours to come up with a huge ransom.		 	 	 	2	2	6	BEACH ROAD, by James Patterson and Peter de Jonge. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An East Hampton lawyer becomes involved in a highly publicized trial.		 	 	 	3	3	3	AT RISK, by Patricia Cornwell. (Putnam, $21.95.) A Massachusetts state investigator applies DNA and other forensic techniques to a cold murder case; written as a serial for The New York Times Magazine.		 	 	 	4		1	THE RAPTURE, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $25.99.) The third prequel to the ''Left Behind'' series.		 	 	 	5	4	2	THE BOOK OF THE DEAD, by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. (Warner, $25.95.) The final volume of a trilogy involving Secret Agent Aloysius Pendergast of the F.B.I. and his criminal brother.		 	 	 	6		1	THE SABOTEURS, by W.E.B. Griffin and William E. Butterworth IV. (Putnam, $25.95.) Another volume of the ''Men at War'' series about O.S.S. agents during World War II.		 	 	 	7	6	4	DEAD WATCH, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $26.95.) A political operative investigates the murder of a former senator.		 	 	 	8		1	TERRORIST, by John Updike. (Knopf, $24.95.) A New Jersey high school boy falls under the sway of an imam. 		 	 	 	9	5	2	THE COLD MOON, by Jeffery Deaver. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) The forensic detective Lincoln Rhyme tracks a serial killer who calls himself the Watchmaker.		 	 	 	10	9	4	THE HARD WAY, by Lee Child. (Delacorte, $25.) When his wife is kidnapped, a man who deals in illegal soldiers turns to the former military cop Jack Reacher.		 	 	 	11	8	2	KILLER DREAMS, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $26.) A researcher battles the head of a pharmaceutical company who has perverted a technology she invented in order to turn people into zombies.		 	 	 	12	7	2	DARK SIDE OF THE MOON, by Sherrilyn Kenyon. (St. Martin's, $19.95.) A reporter tries to expose vampires out to take over Seattle; a ''Dark-Hunter'' novel.		 	 	 	13	15	2	THE FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT, by Alan Furst. (Random House, $24.95.) In wartime Paris, Italian emigres plot against Mussolini.		 	 	 	14	13	6	DIGGING TO AMERICA, by Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.95.) Two families, one of them Iranian-American, become involved with each other when both adopt baby girls from Korea.		 	 	 	15		1	WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, by Sara Gruen. (Algonquin, $23.95.) A young man -- and an elephant -- save a Depression-era circus.		 	 	 	16*	14	2	TELEGRAPH DAYS, by Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A romantic spoof of the Old West from the author of ''Lonesome Dove.''		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1		1	GODLESS, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $27.95.) The columnist argues that liberalism is a religion with sacraments, a creation myth and a clergy.		 	 	 	2	1	3	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	3*	3	3	WISDOM OF OUR FATHERS, by Tim Russert. (Random House, $22.95.) The host of ''Meet the Press'' presents readers' letters about their fathers in response to his book ''Big Russ and Me.''		 	 	 	4	2	34	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	5	4	62	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	6	5	5	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	7	6	5	MYTHS, LIES, AND DOWNRIGHT STUPIDITY, by John Stossel. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The ''20/20'' anchor questions conventional wisdom.		 	 	 	8	7	61	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	9	8	5	MY LIFE IN & OUT OF THE ROUGH, by John Daly with Glen Waggoner. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A memoir by the bad-boy golf champion.		 	 	 	10		1	ARMED MADHOUSE, by Greg Palast. (Dutton, $25.95.) A collection of articles about the war on terror, the 2008 election and other topics by an investigative reporter.		 	 	 	11	9	9	DON'T MAKE A BLACK WOMAN TAKE OFF HER EARRINGS, by Tyler Perry. (Riverhead, $23.95.) The man behind ''Diary of a Mad Black Woman'' muses on life.		 	 	 	12	13	68	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	13	14	2	AMERICA: THE LAST BEST HOPE, VOL. I, by William J. Bennett. (Nelson Current/Thomas Nelson, $29.99.) A history from 1492 to 1914, by the former secretary of education.		 	 	 	14	12	8	MY LIFE IN FRANCE, by Julia Child with Alex Prud'homme. (Knopf, $25.95.) How Julia Child mastered the art of French cooking: a memoir written with her great-nephew.		 	 	 	15		4	CLEMENTE, by David Maraniss. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) A biography of baseball's first Latino superstar from the author of ''They Marched Into Sunlight.''		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended June 10, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE AFTERLIFE, by Donald Antrim. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $21.) Antrim's memoir reckons with his complicated grief at the death of his emotionally volatile, alcoholic mother.
 JUST AMERICANS: How Japanese Americans Won a War at Home and Abroad, by Robert Asahina. (Gotham, $27.50.) The story of two segregated units of Japanese-American soldiers, largely recruited from Roosevelt's internment camps, that fought heroically in World War II. 
 PUBLIC EDITOR #1: The Collected Columns (With Reflections, Reconsiderations, and Even a Few Retractions) of the First Ombudsman of The New York Times, by Daniel Okrent. (PublicAffairs, $22.) Okrent accounts for his 18 months as The Times's first public editor.
 BETRAYING SPINOZA: The Renegade Jew Who Gave Us Modernity, by Rebecca Goldstein. (Nextbook/Schocken, $19.95.) A poignant brief biography, presented as a study of Jewish identity. 
 DON'T I KNOW YOU? by Karen Shepard. (William Morrow/HarperCollins, $23.95.) In this literary thriller, three narratives intersect around a rape-murder on the Upper West Side.
 UNCOMMON CARRIERS, by John McPhee. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) On-the-job portraits of men who drive big transport machines. 
 FUN HOME: A Family Tragicomic, by Alison Bechdel. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) A lesbian comes to terms with the life and death of her closeted gay father in this graphic memoir.
 NIGHT OF SORROWS, by Frances Sherwood. (Norton, $24.95.) A novel about the real Aztec princess who became the translator and mistress of the conquistador Hernan Cortes.
 BLOOD FEVER: A JAMES BOND ADVENTURE, by Charlie Higson. (Miramax/Hyperion Books for Children, $16.95; ages 10 and up.) At 13, James is already recognizable as the future 007.
 IT'S KIND OF A FUNNY STORY, by Ned Vizzini. (Hyperion/Miramax, $16.95; ages 13 and up.) A weighty-themed novel about pressures on teenagers in a success-oriented society, based on the author's stay in a psychiatric hospital.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FORENSICS (89%); MAMMALS (85%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); MURDER (73%); FAMILY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); FINE WATCHES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



520 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: June 25, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	11	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Anchor, $14.95 and $7.99; Broadway special illustrated edition, $22.95.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	2	2	4TH OF JULY, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Warner Vision, $9.99.) Detective Lindsay Boxer, a member of the Women's Murder Club, looks into a series of killings while she herself is on trial.		 	 	3	2	BLUE SMOKE, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) An arson investigator whose family suffered a fire when she was a child is menaced by a sociopath.		 	 	4	5	THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA, by Lauren Weisberger. (Broadway, $13.95; Anchor, $7.99.) A young woman gets a job at a fashion magazine, and a difficult boss. 		 	 	5	1	BLACK WIND, by Clive Cussler and Dirk Cussler. (Berkley, $9.99.) Dirk Pitt and his children confront a villain who has acquired biotoxins from World War II.		 	 	6	142	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Washington Square, $15; Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) A scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 	7	2	THE JURY, by Fern Michaels. (Zebra, $6.99.) While one revenge mission is put off, the sisterhood takes on another: an abusive national security adviser.		 	 	8	2	MIRACLE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.50.) When a terrible storm hits Northern California, the lives of three people are changed forever.		 	 	9	2	CORDINA'S ROYAL FAMILY: BENNETT & CAMILLA, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Reprints of two romances involving a prince and princess from the House of Bisset.		 	 	10	2	SUMMER OF ROSES, by Luanne Rice. (Bantam, $7.50.) The past re-enters the lives of two women and their daughters who fled abusive homes and found refuge in Nova Scotia.		 	 	11	6	A WEDDING IN DECEMBER, by Anita Shreve. (Back Bay, $14.95.) Seven friends reunite for a wedding and remember the tragedy that drove them apart.		 	 	12	2	ALWAYS TIME TO DIE, by Elizabeth Lowell. (Avon, $7.99.) Intrigue engulfs a genealogist after she is hired to research the history of a New Mexican family.		 	 	13	1	LOST LAKE, by Phillip Margolin. (HarperTorch, $9.99.) Two women are caught up in a conspiracy involving a secret unit of assassins.		 	 	14	7	VELOCITY, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $7.99.) A bartender becomes an unwitting accomplice in choosing a serial killer's next victim.		 	 	15	89	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how a friend has fared under the Taliban. 		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	21	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	2	AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH, by Al Gore. (Rodale, $21.95.) The former vice president sounds an alarm about global warming in this companion volume to the movie of the same title.		 	 	3	69	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	4	96	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	5	22	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author recalls a childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved.		 	 	6	2	FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS, by James Bradley with Ron Powers. (Bantam, $14 and $7.99.) The story of the six men who raised the flag at Iwo Jima. 		 	 	7	8	EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $11.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.		 	 	8	121	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of an architect and a killer, linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	9	2	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $15.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this book about Frey's helpful mobster friend contains numerous fabrications.		 	 	10	191	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	11	39	HOLY BLOOD, HOLY GRAIL, by Michael Baigent, Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln. (Delta, $15; Dell, $7.99.) Remarkable conclusions about Christ's lineage.		 	 	12	11	GARLIC AND SAPPHIRES, by Ruth Reichl. (Penguin, $15.) The editor of Gourmet relives her days as restaurant critic of The New York Times.		 	 	13	21	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	14	24	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) Why some societies succeed and others fail.		 	 	15	44	THE BOOKSELLER OF KABUL, by Asne Seierstad. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $12.95.) A Norwegian journalist examines the treatment of Afghan women.		 	 	16*	1	110 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (Harper Paperbacks, $13.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	10	CESAR'S WAY, by Cesar Millan with Melissa Jo Peltier. (Harmony, $24.95.) The star of the television show ''Dog Whisperer'' offers insight into canine psychology and help solving problems.		 	 	2	3	THE ALPHABET OF MANLINESS, by Maddox. (Citadel, $15.95.) Ribald humor for men, based on the author's Web site.		 	 	3	5	LIES AT THE ALTAR, by Robin L. Smith. (Hyperion, $24.95.) A psychologist advises couples on how to turn wedding vows into a successful marriage.		 	 	4	77	YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()		 	 	5*	177	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	282	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. ()		 	 	2	269	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) Advice for parents-to-be. ()		 	 	3	3	SOUL MIND BODY MEDICINE, by Zhi Gang Sha. (New World Library, $15.95.) A guide to healing that starts with the soul. ()		 	 	4	8	EXPRESS LANE MEALS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $18.95.) Quick and easy recipes, and what ingredients to shop for, from the Food Network host.		 	 	5	52	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended June 10, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); WOMEN (76%); GENEALOGY (74%); ARSON (74%); FAMILY (74%); HOMICIDE (72%); TALIBAN (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); BRITISH ROYALTY (68%); WORLD WAR II (52%); RELIGION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (88%); JAMES PATTERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (64%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW MEXICO, USA (66%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (70%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



521 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Gauging Immigration

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Immigration Math: It's a Long Story'' (Economic View, June 18), which noted the importance of examining the economic contributions of second and third generations of immigrant families: 
 In looking at the pros and cons of immigration-driven population growth, the column quoted one economics professor as saying that ''big countries have more power.''
However, increasing the population of the United States, already the most powerful country on earth, will not improve the trade deficit, assure greater access to energy resources or help American forces prevail in Iraq or elsewhere. For these issues of the nation's welfare, it is the quality of policy that is critical, not the additional quantity of population.

David Osterman
Boulder, Colo., June 20

To the Editor:
 ''Immigration Math: It's a Long Story'' (Economic View, June 18) quoted one professor as saying that society is now ''much more open to outsiders'' in important jobs and elite universities.
 But what about the restrictions placed on some visa applicants over the last four and a half years? The many foreign professionals -- physicians, for example -- who have been denied visas certainly have grounds to dispute that assertion.
 The merit and justice of these policies are debatable. That the policies are literally unproductive is certain.

John J. Murphy, M.D.
Minneapolis, June 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); REFUGEES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%) United States Economy; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: John J (Dr) Murphy; David Osterman

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



522 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Turning a Home Into Cash Flow

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
WHAT if you could take a home equity loan that you didn't have to repay while you lived in your house? 
 The proposition sounds a little too good to be true. But such a product does exist, although technically it's not a home equity loan and it's only for older homeowners.
It's called a ''reverse mortgage,'' and retirees have been turning to it in increasing numbers in recent years as a way to gain financial breathing room without having to sell their homes and move away. 
 Good as these loans may sound, financial counselors say they can leave families vulnerable. ''It can be a great financial solution for many seniors and their families,'' said Catherine Williams, a vice president of Money Management International, a nonprofit credit-counseling agency in Houston. ''But there are a lot of factors to consider that families sometimes don't think about.''
 With reverse mortgages, Ms. Williams said, families can end up depleting what is often their most prized inheritable asset. And because sudden disability can prod parents to take out such mortgages hastily, there is not always time to consider the issues fully. 
 Here are the basics: As long as the house is your primary residence and you are at least 62, banks will give you a big portion of its value under the condition that if you move out or die, you or your estate pays back the loan plus interest, set at closing. 
 The amount you receive depends on your place of residence, current interest rates, the value of the house, your age and the amount still owed on the first mortgage. 
 A $240,000 house, fully paid off by a 62-year-old in Minneapolis, qualifies for a lump-sum payment of $104,000 under the Federal Housing Administration's Home Equity Conversion Mortgage program, the dominant reverse mortgage product. There are two other payment options: $650 a month while the owner lives in the house, or a line of credit. (Insurance covers the lender, should an owner live long enough to draw more than the mortgage value.) 
 Because payouts for the housing agency's reverse mortgages are based only on the first $360,000 in home value, higher-priced homes do not fetch much more. Under the same loan program, a $700,000 house in Westport, Conn., would rate a lump sum of $159,000, monthly payments of $994 or a credit line. 
 Payout options can get more complex depending on which of the three products you choose. The intricacies are covered on Web sites like nrmla.org (operated by the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association) and aarp.org/money/revmort/.
 Indeed, the complexity of the product is why consumers cannot take out a reverse mortgage without first certifying that they have received advice from a financial counselor approved by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
 The counseling sessions cover a range of issues. The loan payout is tax-free, for example, unless you invest the money elsewhere, Ms. Williams said. And the loans carry fairly high closing costs, so if you were to move out within a few years of the loan, the payout would most likely not be worth the initial expense. 
 But despite the counseling, industry executives say, horror stories have left a core group of customers leery of reverse mortgages. 
 In the 1980's and 1990's, financial institutions sometimes took a percentage of the home's equity with reverse mortgages. Some homeowners who moved out thus ended up owing the amount of the payouts and the entire appreciated value of the home. 
 No one considering a reverse mortgage today need fear such terms, said Peter H. Bell of the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association. ''Nobody in the marketplace is offering anything of that sort right now,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (60%) Housing; Mortgages

COMPANY: MONEY MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL (56%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (53%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



523 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Long Island; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Instead of Blight, Low-Price Houses

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

DATELINE: NORTH BELLPORT 

 BODY:
THE sun glanced off solar panels on the pitched roof, red ribbons crisscrossed the front door and a turquoise-colored mulch and grass seed mixture lay on the lawn of Nery Tavares's new house on Provost Avenue in North Bellport on June 10.
 The three-bedroom house is one of five on the same street that were built in five days the previous week by Habitat for Humanity of Suffolk in partnership with local builders and laborers who donated their services. 
The homes are the Long Island component of a nationwide 5,000-house building blitz that week, organized by Habitat, to call attention to the need for affordable housing.
 ''It's a very emotional day,'' Ms. Tavares said at the dedication ceremony, choking up as she spoke to the crowd gathered in her new driveway. 
 The scene would have been hard to imagine a decade ago in this struggling hamlet. Then, there was open gambling on street corners, prostitutes walking past crumbling homes and inattentive landlords collecting rent from the Suffolk County Department of Social Services to give poor people a poor place to live.
 ''North Bellport was perhaps the most blighted community of Suffolk County,'' said Jim Morgo, the county's commissioner of economic development and work force housing. ''It had the lowest homeownership and the highest unemployment.''
 In the 1990's, officials from the county, the town of Brookhaven and the Long Island Housing Partnership developed a plan to start turning North Bellport around.
 The linchpin of the plan was land. To combat escalating real estate costs, the county began transferring land seized in tax foreclosures to local towns. Regions of the most down-and-out areas of the towns of Brookhaven and Islip had the highest number of these parcels. 
 To recycle the land, the towns contracted with two groups and local builders to build homes that residents could afford. 
 Since then, Habitat for Humanity of Suffolk County has built 50 homes in North Bellport, and the Long Island Housing Partnership has built 67 homes. A new 20-home subdivision is in the planning stage, and nine additional homes on scattered sites are currently under construction.
 The aggressive use of foreclosed properties as a site for affordable housing is a trend that is found more often in declining cities than in the suburbs, according to Robert Puentes, a fellow at the Brookings Institution Metropolitan Policy Program, and author of a report in February on America's first suburbs, including some on Long Island. 
 ''The institutional infrastructure for something like this doesn't usually exist in most suburbs because the recognition doesn't exist that the problem is there,'' Mr. Puentes said.
 The most recently completed Housing Partnership development is on Meade Avenue, a block from the Habitat for Humanity homes on Provost Avenue. It's a new subdivision of 16 tidy three-bedroom colonials with front porches and windows with shutters, and four other homes on scattered lots.
 The Housing Partnership has built more affordable homes in North Bellport and Bay Shore, in the town of Islip, than in any other areas of Long Island, said Diana Weir, the vice president of the Partnership.
 The ideal is that homes spark revitalization of neighboring homes, she said. ''You put a beautiful home in an area and the neighbors say, 'I better fix up my property and mow my lawn,' '' Ms. Weir said. 
 After federal and state subsidies to offset some of the cost of construction, the Meade Avenue houses sold for $116,405, Ms. Weir said. Eligible buyers, mostly local residents chosen in a lottery, can earn no more than 80 percent of the median income for the area, or $72,800 for a family of four.
 The Habitat homes are for buyers with much lower incomes; an eligible family of four would earn $28,000 to $48,000 a year. Buyers also help to build other Habitat homes, which usually take five or six months each. 
 There were 600 volunteers in all for the five-day home building event. A sponsor for each home -- the Orenstein Leyton Company, Crystal Bay Construction, AvalonBay Communities, Emanon and Long Island Homebuilders Care -- brought in the subcontractors and volunteers.
 As for the Housing Partnership, it taps a stable of builders who are experienced in building below-market-value homes, Ms. Weir said, as getting funds from state and federal agencies can take up to two years. ''A lot of builders don't want to deal with it,'' she said.
 To qualify for subsidies, builders must limit their profits to 10 percent over the cost of each home. Daytree Custom Builders built most of the Meade Avenue homes and those of a similar 19-unit subdivision on nearby Scherger Avenue in early 2002. 
 An additional nine homes are under construction on scattered sites in the neighborhood, and the Housing Partnership and Habitat for Humanity are working together in the planning stages of another 20-home subdivision on nearby Ecke Avenue.
 The new homes have sparked other grass-roots efforts in North Bellport. For example, the South Country Community Land Trust was set up last year within the South Country School District to raise funds to buy more parcels of land for housing and for open space preservation.
 To prevent profiteering by those who are selected to buy the affordable homes, the Partnership's properties have restrictions on resale, requiring sellers to repay grants and subsidies if they sell within 10 years. 
 Habitat owners repay a 20-year $75,000 no-interest loan held by Habitat for Humanity, about $750 a month including property taxes and home insurance. 
 To discourage buyers from reselling the homes quickly at market prices, Habitat also puts a second lien on the house equal to the appraised value. No actual payments are made on that loan, and the balance is decreased each time a payment on the first loan is made. But if the house is sold before the first mortgage is paid off, the balances on both loans must be paid.
 Dominique Ray, 20, and Timothy Scruggs, 27, and their sons -- Davante, 5, and Timothy Jr., 16 months -- listened as builders and other volunteers stopped by to give the couple instructions about various parts of the house.
 One woman gave Ms. Ray a hug. Many who had helped build the home wished the family well as they left after the dedication ceremony.
 Mr. Scruggs and Ms. Ray were clearly moved by the good will. ''They made us feel like family, which is really dear to my heart,'' Mr. Scruggs said of the volunteers. ''I'm not going to sit back and let this fall apart.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OPEN HOUSE -- Timothy Scruggs and Dominique Ray, and their sons, Davante and Timothy Jr., at their new home on Provost Avenue, North Bellport, one of five built by Habitat for Humanity on the street. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); SUBURBS (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); RESEARCH REPORTS (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Housing

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (91%) Habitat for Humanity; Long Island Housing Partnership

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: Valerie Cotsalas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) North Bellport (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



524 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Cleaning Up, or at Least Hoping To

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
BACK in 2000, 49,309 business establishments opened in New York State, according to the federal government's count. Nobody knows how many are still operating, but Eldwyn Brown's coin-operated Laundromat is among those that are.
 Which is pretty good, considering that other recent government studies suggest that a third to half of new businesses in the country do not survive beyond four years. 
As is often the case with new enterprises that do make it this far, it has taken several years of swimming though through red ink for Mr. Brown, the owner of Brown's Bed-Stuy Laundromat, to keep the business going. In fact, Mr. Brown says, this year may be the first profitable one for his large Laundromat since he opened it in a reviving commercial district in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn toward the end of an 18-year career as a computer systems expert with I.B.M.
 One advantage that Mr. Brown, 48, has over many other entrepreneurs is that he has not had to rely on his business as the sole source of his income. In fact, ''I usually haven't taken income from it,'' he said recently, though he believes that he will soon be able to start regularly doing so as the business becomes profitable. 
 Rather, for two years after opening the business, he said, he continued working at I.B.M., and when he left the company in 2002 it was with a buyout. Since leaving, he has worked, usually several hours a week, as a computer consultant, and he is a co-owner of a building with six rental apartments. Recently, he also began working about six hours a day as a sales agent at a real estate company. These days he spends only about three hours a day at his Laundromat, whose four employees keep it open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
 With 27 washing machines and 26 dryers, the business occupies 1,800 square feet of space in what was previously three adjacent storefronts on Nostrand Avenue near Fulton Street. ''I saw that Bedford-Stuyvesant was coming back,'' Mr. Brown said.
 He and his family moved to the vicinity of the Laundromat from Queens at about the time he opened it, and his wife, Judy Brown, has done bookkeeping for the Laundromat. They now work as a team at the real estate agency, which is also in the area. They have three young children.
 The world of whirling washers and jangling coins is very different from that at I.B.M., said Mr. Brown, who has a master's degree in computer science and whose nearly two decades at I.B.M. were spent as a systems engineer, systems specialist and marketing specialist. 
 ''But growing up, my main goal was having my own business,'' he said last week as customers operated the machines around him or left their loads of laundry for the staff to handle.
 Mr. Brown said he had financed the $250,000 cost of starting his business, which included $150,000 for the machines, with a loan of about $100,000 from I.B.M.'s credit union, secured by company stock he owned, and a $150,000 loan from Community Capital Bank that was guaranteed by the federal Small Business Administration.
 The Laundromat's revenue in 2001, its first full year, was about $200,000, he said, and last year it was about $350,000.
 Mr. Brown was able to come this far with the Laundromat because he was not thwarted by obstacles that specialists in entrepreneurship say often cause small businesses to fail in their early years. A leading obstacle to survival involves financing.
 ''Research has indicated that small businesses often fail because they lack sufficient access to capital at start-up or during key growth phases,'' said a report in December by the Democratic staff of the House Small Business Committee. 
 Nor was Mr. Brown kept from going forward by another circumstance that the report said recent research had suggested: that blacks and Hispanics ''are subject to a higher denial rate for loans than are non-minority entrepreneurs, even after controlling for differences between firms.'' 
 In any case, Mr. Brown said, his goal now for his Laundromat is to go from surviving to thriving.


GRAPHIC: Photo: GETTING OUT THE RED INK SPOTS -- Eldwyn Brown has owned Brown's Bed-Stuy Laundromat in Brooklyn since 2000. It may show a profit for the first time this year. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (90%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); RETAILERS (63%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); CHILDREN (50%) Laundries and Laundry Aids; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Credit; Laundries and Laundry Aids

PERSON: Joseph P Fried; Eldwyn Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



525 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Jessica Rose, Daniel Ginsberg

 BODY:
Jessica Lynne Rose and Daniel Brian Ginsberg were married yesterday by F. Ann Sullivan, a Vermont justice of the peace, at the Basin Harbor Club, a resort in Vergennes, Vt. 
 Ms. Rose, 38, is keeping her name. She is a consultant in Washington who helps monitor and evaluate government-supported H.I.V. and AIDS programs in developing countries for the United States Agency for International Development. She graduated from Johns Hopkins University and received a master's degree in population and international health from Harvard.
Her father, Dr. Turpin Rose of Danbury, Conn., is an ophthalmologist in private practice there. Her mother, Marilyn Coleman of Mesterrieux, France, who is retired, was a critical-care nurse at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York. The bride is a stepdaughter of Malcolm Coleman and of Susan Davies. 
 Mr. Ginsberg, 32, is a legislative assistant in Washington to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont; the bridegroom specializes in military legislation. He is also a freelance reviewer of classical music and opera for The Washington Post. He graduated from the University of Michigan and received a master's degree in international economics and strategic studies from Johns Hopkins. 
 His parents, Rona and Jerry Ginsberg of Atlanta, are on the staff of the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. The bridegroom's mother is the director of communications and his father is a professor of mechanical engineering.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); AIDS & HIV (56%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: PATRICK LEAHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



526 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: The 9/11 Museum, In Its Right Place?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''9/11 Memorial, Version 2.0'' (editorial, June 22):
 You write that the planned memorial museum at ground zero has ''fairly taken over the underground galleries'' of the original Michael Arad-Peter Walker memorial design. 
 The memorial museum, situated in fact some 40 feet below the ''galleries'' level, has not been ''expanded'' but rather reduced in scale from earlier designs. 
 Frank Sciame has offered a meaningful synthesis of the various components in the memorial quadrant, yielding the possibility of a truly integrated visitor experience. 
 His vision provides for the power of the Arad-Walker memorial to work in full complement with a dramatically conceived and emotionally rich museum presentation, while still addressing valid concerns of fiscal prudence, visitor security and the sensibilities of those most immediately affected by 9/11. 
 It is time for the unified approach that Mr. Sciame has wisely recommended, which Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have endorsed.

Alice M. Greenwald
Director, World Trade Center
Memorial Museum
New York, June 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''New Look at Memorial Lowers Cost'' (news article, June 21):
 Frank Sciame's plan moves the ''names'' above ground, but keeps them random; keeps the waterfalls and trees at plaza level, but makes no room there for artifacts (such as the sphere sculpture, the World Trade Center facade or crushed firetrucks). The plaza-level Visitor Orientation and Education Center will house ticket booths and places for large groups to gather, but will not house the memorial museum. The actual 9/11 memorial museum will be below ground. 
 Visitors to the site will be glad to know that they will have underground space in which to gather and reflect. Perhaps they can reflect upon why they were forced below ground to learn about events that took place above them; why decision makers chose to insult the dead by listing them randomly; and why the history of 9/11 is being relegated to a basement. 
 The memorial as designed will fail and bring down with it the redevelopment of downtown.

Janet M. Roy
Pompano Beach, Fla.
PUB-DATE: June 21, 2006

The writer's brother, Capt. William F. Burke Jr. of Engine Company 21, died at the World Trade Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); TERRORISM (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Monuments and Memorials ; Museums; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%) Alice M Greenwald; Janet M Roy; Frank J Jr Sciame; Alice M Greenwald

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (87%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



527 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Emma Fuerst, Anson Frelinghuysen

 BODY:
Emma Louise Fuerst, the daughter of Elizabeth and Steven Fuerst of Bedminster, N.J., was married yesterday at their house to Anson Barrett Frelinghuysen, a son of Barrett B. Frelinghuysen and Peter Frelinghuysen of New York. Rabbi William Kraus officiated, with the Rev. Philippa A. Turner, an Episcopal priest, participating. 
 The bride and bridegroom graduated from Trinity College in Hartford, where they met.
Mrs. Frelinghuysen, 28, received an M.B.A. degree this month from Stanford. Her father is a partner in Lowenstein Sandler, a law firm in Roseland, N.J. Her mother is a public relations consultant in Somerville, N.J., and a part-time lecturer in the journalism and media studies department at Rutgers. 
 Mr. Frelinghuysen, 26, has completed second-year studies at Brooklyn Law School. He received a master's degree in social sciences from the London School of Economics. His mother retired as a staff consultant in New York at the Natural Resources Defense Council, the environmental group. His father is a partner in Morris & McVeigh, a New York law firm. 
 The bridegroom is a grandson of Peter H. B. Freylinghuysen of Morristown, N.J., a United States representative from New Jersey from 1953 to 1974. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



528 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; STREET LEVEL/Arverne; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for High Tide

BYLINE: By JEFF VANDAM. 
E-mail: streetlevel@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE dead-end signs in Arverne still stand, looming over streets that no longer exist in this Rockaways hamlet. Many of these roads, leading to the boardwalk and the ocean, have been fenced off. Others were long ago conquered by weeds and tall grass.
 But some of the roads have vanished for a reason that, as recently as a year or two ago, might have bowled over residents of the long-lonely area: they have been -- or soon will be -- replaced by houses and stores and lawns big enough for badminton. 
For decades, no one wanted to settle in Arverne byways like Beach 70th Street, least of all the city government, which in the 1960's tore down acre upon acre of houses to make way for an urban renewal project that never materialized. But now, with a 2,300-house development called Arverne-by-the-Sea well on its way since opening to its first residents early last year, that has changed.
 As houses and people have reappeared, and more ocean-view lots have been groomed for construction, merchants have noticed. Between a construction fence and a bale of hay on a dirt lot, a yellow sign advertises the lawn sprinkler specialists at the Green Turf Irrigation Company.
 One of the new residents is Deborah Forde, an engineer who moved to her new house from Crown Heights, Brooklyn, in April. ''You get so much more for your dollar here,'' Ms. Forde said. ''The fact that it's a block away from the beach helps a lot.''
 Arverne, however, is not an island, but one link in the chain of established communities, from Far Rockaway to Breezy Point, that spans the Rockaway Peninsula. Just past the pleasant gray and yellow two-family houses still being completed on streets with names like Aquatic Drive and Beach Breeze Place, the inhabitants of Rockaway Beach have watched the local construction boom. Depending on whom you ask there, the influx is either cause for cautious optimism or, barring a hurricane, the worst thing that could happen. 
 ''Destruction,'' said William Boden, a retired construction worker who was meeting last Tuesday afternoon with friends at the Rockaway Beach Inn, a tavern with a checker-tile floor. ''That's all it is, destruction.'' 
 Mr. Boden, a longtime resident of the Rockaways, was so fed up with the side effects of new development that last year he moved to Broad Channel, a flood-prone island north of the peninsula in Jamaica Bay. He zeroed in on the lack of local shopping as one of the obstacles to more growth. ''You can't even buy a pair of underwear in this town,'' he said of Rockaway Beach.
 Charlie Brush, the bartender, added, ''We don't know what we're going to do with schools and infrastructure.'' And, he asked between pouring beers, ''Where they gonna park?''
 Before long, someone played ''Driving Out of Rockaway,'' a local favorite by a local musician named Gerald Bair, on the jukebox. ''I grew up with him,'' Mr. Boden said, as mournful lyrics like ''Empty lots still line the beach'' echoed off the walls. 
 Not everyone is wary of newcomers. A block from the Rockaway Beach Inn, Marc Kassman opened SMK Pharmacy and Surgical Supplies in January, and the potential for new customers was on his mind.
 ''We were excited about that,'' said a spiky-haired Mr. Kassman, 32, speaking from behind the prescriptions counter at the back of his store. ''The thing is, the people there have nowhere else to go.''
 Elsewhere in the pharmacy, rows upon rows of candy and deodorant were brightly lighted and neatly arranged. Stocking the shelves in a white lab coat was Julia Crespo, 24, who expressed hope that a movie theater would arrive soon. That way, she said, her family wouldn't have to cross into Nassau County to catch a film.
 Mr. Kassman is seizing other local opportunities; he sells diabetic supplies, for example. But though business has been good, he sounded one anxious note about the hundreds of houses still to be built. ''We're excited about the future,'' he said. ''But we want them to just get it done already.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RETAILERS (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); FLOOD ZONES (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); IRRIGATION (51%) Housing

COMPANY: SA BLOCK LTD (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3251 BRICK & STRUCTURAL CLAY TILE (66%)

PERSON: Jeff Vandam

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Rockaway Peninsula (NYC); Arverne (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



529 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 674 words

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of Connecticut

Hartford Presentation on decentralized wastewater management. Monday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3751.

Kent Public meeting on a natural resources restoration plan for the Housatonic River Basin. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Kent Town Hall, 41 Kent Green Boulevard. (860) 424-3474.

New Britain Connecticut Siting Council energy and telecommunications meeting. Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. 10 Franklin Square. (860) 827-2935.

Fairfield County

Bethel Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.

bethel Park and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.

Brookfield Parks and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Brookfield Town Hall, 100 Pocono Road. (203) 775-7300.

Danbury Zoning Board of Appeals special meeting on the land use law. Monday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

danbury Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

Monroe Town Council. Monday at 8 p.m. Monroe Town Hall, 7 Fan Hill Road. (203) 452-5417.

Stamford Parks and Recreation Commission. Thursday at 6:30 p.m. Stamford Government Center, 888 Washington Boulevard. (203) 977-4076.

stamford Zoning Board. Monday at 7 p.m. Stamford Government Center, 888 Washington Boulevard. (203) 977-4076.

Hartford County

broad brook East Windsor Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Town Hall, 11 Rye Street. (860) 623-8122.

Hartford City Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 550 Main Street. (860) 522-4888.

Litchfield County

Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.

Cornwall Planning and Zoning planning meeting. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Cornwall Town Hall, 26 Pine Street. (860) 672-2709.

Kent Conservation/Inlands Wetlands Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Kent Town Hall, 41 Kent Green Boulevard. (860) 927-3433.

New Milford Zoning Board. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.

new milford Town Council. Monday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.

Torrington Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Torrington City Hall, 140 Main Street. (860) 489-2241.

Woodbury Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144.

Woodbury Parks and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Woodbury Senior Center, 7 Mountain Road. (203) 263-2144.

Middlesex County

Essex Harbor Management Commission. Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340.

New Haven County

ChesHire Planning and Zoning Commission, public hearing followed by regular meeting. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Cheshire Town Hall, 84 South Main Street. (203) 271-6660.

Derby Regional Planning Commission. Tuesday at 5:15 p.m. Valley Council of Governments, Main Street. (203) 735-8688.

Hamden Fair Rent Commission. Tuesday at 5 p.m. Hamden Government Center, 2372 Whitney Avenue. (203) 287-2500.

New London County

Lebanon Town Meeting. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Lyman Memorial High School Auditorium, 917 Exeter Road. (860) 642-6100.

Tolland County

Andover Board of Finance. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Old Firehouse, Center Street. (860) 742-7305.

Ellington Board of Education. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Administration Building, 47 Main Street. (860) 870-3100.

Windham County

Ashford Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Ashford Town Office Building, 5 Town Hall Road. (860) 487-4401.

Ashford Library Board of Directors. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Babcock Library, 25 Pompey Hollow Road. (860) 429-0287.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); COUNTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WETLANDS (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); RIVERS (55%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



530 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Bigger, but Not Better

BYLINE: By Richard Amper and Richard Johannesen. 
Richard Amper is the treasurer and Richard Johannesen is the chairman of the Long Island Environmental Voters Forum, a nonprofit environmental group.

DATELINE: Riverhead 

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND is the national model of poor land use. All of America has learned from our mistakes -- except, apparently, us.
 Today, Long Island developers continue to pursue their usual agenda of sprawl, as evidenced by the monstrosities they are building on former farms in Brookhaven and Riverhead -- bigger and bigger houses in more and more remote areas. It's an agenda that serves developers' interests while threatening Long Island's future.
Sprawl is hurting the region's agriculture, endangering animal habitats and gobbling up wetlands and woodlands. For example, part of the proposed Heritage Square project, which calls for the construction of 408 units on about 52 acres in East Moriches, is on land in the Pine Barrens, a state nature preserve. Sewage discharges resulting from all this development will contaminate drinking water. And with residents living further and further from workplaces and shopping, the island's already intolerable traffic will only increase, polluting the air. 
 Long Island's No. 1 industry is tourism, and visitors aren't coming to the island to visit and take photographs of new houses and subdivisions. They're interested in sunning themselves on our beaches, tasting our local wines and hiking along the trails at our federal and state wildlife preserves. But if sprawl continues, there will be none of this to enjoy. 
 Moreover, sprawl makes housing unaffordable to seniors and younger workers. With the average house selling for $350,000 to $400,000, 18- to 34-year-olds are leaving the region at a rate five times the national average. The resulting brain drain is casting a giant shadow over the regional economy. Businesses can't fill the jobs we desperately need.
 Development also increases the cost of government services like schools, roads and police protection. The result: taxes two-and-a-half times the national average.
 Developers are about to put Long Island out of business. What's more, our politicians are helping them do it.
 Long Island's future hinges on two needs: open space and affordable housing. These are entirely compatible. Smart growth means building houses and apartments in our downtowns and villages in mixed-use communities near public transportation. Planners agree on this, and polls show the public supports it.
 Developers profess to support affordable housing, but seldom do they build any. They make too much money building unaffordable housing. According to Lee Koppelman, director of the Center for Regional Policy Studies at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, only 3,000 to 5,000 of Long Island's million or so houses would be considered affordable by standard measures. 
 Developers on Long Island have fought zoning requirements that require new subdivisions to include some affordable housing. In Brookhaven, they blocked a ballot proposal for a community preservation fund, in which a 2 percent real estate transfer tax on expensive houses is used to buy open land; such taxes have saved more than 5,000 acres on the East End. 
 And they lobbied the Suffolk County Legislature for a referendum that allows construction elsewhere every time a parcel of land is preserved, saying that this would promote affordable housing. Two years later, not one affordable house has resulted from the passage of the referendum, even as many of the politicians who supported it received big campaign contributions from developers. 
 This situation, in which politicians are more responsive to developers than to the public, needs to end. Starting this summer, our group will begin issuing report cards on politicians' records on preservation, sprawl and affordable housing. These report cards will identify the elected officials who most consistently place the developers' agenda ahead of public needs.
 But more can be done. Long Islanders should demand that their local officials require new subdivisions to include 20 percent affordable housing for families making 80 percent or less of the average income in their town. They should oppose high-density development unless it's downtown, near existing roads and sewers. And they should oppose new development projects on open space and farmland. 
 After 50 years of poor land use, time is running out for our region. There are only 70,000 acres left today that are not already committed to development or preservation; by 2015, there will be none. If we don't change now, one of the nation's first mature suburbs will become the nation's first dead suburb. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ANIMALS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); HIKING (74%); WILDLIFE (70%); WETLANDS (70%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (70%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (69%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Housing; Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Richard Amper; Richard Johannesen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



531 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Nassau's Oil Switch Good for Air and Coffers

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
Nassau County has moved into the state's recycling forefront by deciding to use re-refined motor oil in its public vehicles. 
 Instead of buying virgin motor oil and hydraulic fluids, the county earlier this year started buying re-refined oil -- used oil that has been processed to remove contaminants and then blended with additives to produce motor oil or hydraulic oil. The county expects to save as much as $25,000 this year as a result.
''It's good for the environment, because we're reusing a product and saving natural resources, and it saves money,'' said Tom Maher, the county's director of environmental coordination. 
 The county uses about 13,000 gallons of motor oil and hydraulic oil a year for its fleet of more than 400 nonemergency vehicles. Re-refined products currently cost about $3.40 a gallon, while virgin products cost about $5.40 a gallon.
 The Police Department opted out of the program, Mr. Maher said, ''because they're very concerned about the products they use and that cars don't break down, but we'll demonstrate to them that there's no problem using re-refined oil, and they might change over in time.''
 Diane Yatauro, the county legislator from Glen Cove who urged the county to make the switch, said, ''This is win-win for everybody, financially and environmentally, and what better time to look at this than when we're paying astronomical prices at the gas station?''
 Joshua Klainberg, the political director of the New York League of Conservation Voters, said New York City was the only other municipality to use re-refined oil. ''This is a small but important way for government to do its part to reduce oil consumption,'' he said.
 The American Petroleum Institute tests re-refined oils and certifies those that meet the same standards as virgin oil.

Report Urges Restraint In Creating Retail Space
 Even though the amount of shopping center space in Suffolk County has more than tripled since 1970, the retail sector is thriving and many downtown centers that had struggled for years are no longer plagued by vacant storefronts, according to a report released recently by the county's Planning Department.
 But while the retail scene may be flourishing, the report urges a cautious approach to the more than seven million square feet of additional shopping center space that has been proposed in the county.
 ''The county is showing very positive occupancy rates in its downtowns and shopping centers,'' said Thomas A. Isles, the county planning director. ''But we remain concerned about proposals for additional space because there is a real potential for overbuilding and overdevelopment of retail.''
 He said that the county's relatively slow population growth and flat income growth would suggest limited ability to absorb much more new retail space.
 The report said that store vacancy rates had dropped significantly between 1996 and 2005, to 7.3 percent from 11.5 percent in downtown districts and to 7.8 percent from 19.0 percent in shopping centers. Mr. Isles said that a vacancy rate of 6 to 7 percent was considered a healthy retail market at full use.
 The Planning Department took inventories of 803 shopping centers and 72 downtowns and concluded that the county had 37.1 million square feet of space in shopping centers and 8.2 million square feet in downtowns. The amount of shopping center square footage per person grew to 25.2 in 2005 from 11.3 in 1970.
 Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist at the Long Island Association, said the findings ''show a welcome trend on Long Island.'' But she too expressed concern. Consumer spending has grown throughout the nation, she said, ''but that may not continue if we're squeezed by tepid job and wage growth and continued higher gas prices. 
 ''Then the question is: 'Will the consumer pull back?' ''

Better Outcome Over All In Passing School Budgets
 Long Island voters approved 15 of 18 school budgets during revotes Tuesday, significantly reducing the number of school districts across the Island that will have to resort to austerity budgets.
 While 21 Long Island school districts were forced onto austerity this year, only four will have to keep their budget increases to the austerity level of 4 percent next year. The districts that lost budget votes Tuesday were Roosevelt, East Islip and East Moriches. A fourth district, Lawrence, chose not to put its budget up for a revote and went on austerity after residents defeated the budget in its initial vote last month.
 School officials attributed the better outcome over all to more conservative budgeting and to more organized efforts by school supporters to get voters to the polls. ''School districts generally are thinking twice about growing their programs, and they also worked harder to get out the yes votes,'' said Tim Kremer, executive director of the New York State School Boards Association.
 In Roosevelt, Schools Superintendent Ronald O. Ross said he was disappointed by the budget defeat, by a vote of 422 to 345. ''What makes it so tragic is we had proposed what was probably one of the lowest tax increases in the county,'' he said.
 The proposed $66 million budget would have increased spending by 15 percent, but taxes would have gone up only 4.9 percent. He said he would have to cut the budget by $3 million and eliminate extracurricular activities, sports, prekindergarten and kindergarten programs.
 The budget defeat is another blow to the district, which was taken over by the state four years ago and was criticized for continuing fiscal irregularities in a recent state audit.


GRAPHIC: Photos: POSTER TACTICS -- Roslyn students urge voters to pass the budget in an organized effort by school supporters. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)
 FOR SAVINGS -- Using re-refined oil, Jeff Wider and Matthew Boglioli change the oil on a Nassau truck as Legislator Diane Yatauro looks on. (Photo by Deborah Yale)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PETROLEUM LUBRICANTS MFG (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLICE FORCES (67%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); CONSUMPTION (62%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (61%); POPULATION GROWTH (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Recycling of Waste Materials; Retail Stores and Trade; Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY); Suffolk County (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



532 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Adding the Numbers Up After the Golfers Are Gone

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BLEYER

 BODY:
The greens at Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck had barely been cleared after the United States Open ended last Sunday when officials started tallying the numbers. 
 Total attendance was 225,000, with tickets sold out. Marty Parkes, senior director of communications for the United States Golf Association, said the merchandise tent brought in more than $100,000 in sales.
County officials said it was too early to gauge the benefits to Westchester's economy, but ''we know that every hotel within the area was booked completely, and the restaurants were definitely packed,'' said Sal Carrera, director of economic development for the county.
 Metro-North officials said the railroad carried 52,000 people to and from Mamaroneck for the tournament.
 ''We have a lot of experience handling big events in New York City, but we have never handled an event quite this big at an outlying station,'' said Walter Brett, Metro-North's director of schedule planning.
 On the weekdays, special express trains brought riders from the New York City to Mamaroneck; on the weekend, 47 trains were added to the New Haven line to handle the crowd, and the Mamaroneck station was staffed with extra ticket sellers, gate inspectors and supervisors. 
 Business was brisk at the Westchester County Airport as well, with a higher than average number of private jets flying in and out. One of the airport's five fuel vendors reported refueling 700 corporate jets and small airplanes in a period when it would normally refuel about 350. JENNIFER BLEYER


GRAPHIC: Photo: HEAD COUNT -- Total attendance at the United States Open in Mamaroneck was 225,000, with tickets sold out. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); TICKET SALES (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAILERS (77%); TRAINS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (70%) Golf; United States Open (Golf)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GOLF ASSOCIATION (84%) United States Golf Assn; Winged Foot Golf Club

PERSON: Jennifer Bleyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mamaroneck (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



533 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: In the Right Direction, The Opposite Field

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Retired ballplayers tend to consider their modern descendants about as fundamentally sound as the Nasdaq. This is not new.
 ''They only hit for their amusement and pleasure for the home run,'' one old-timer, Ty Cobb, said in 1952.
But Cobb would feel downright peachy today if he could hear some of baseball's most talented young hitters wax about their approach. 
 Prince Fielder, the power-packed, 260-pound slugger for the Milwaukee Brewers, describes himself as a Tony Gwynn or a Wade Boggs type of batter who savors line drives into the gaps.
 The Philadelphia Phillies' Ryan Howard -- Barry Bonds's successor as the National League's most feared left-handed slugger -- speaks earnestly about hitting the ball to the opposite field. 
 And Minnesota Twins catcher Joe Mauer, who entered yesterday's games leading the majors with a .370 batting average, prefers to inside-out the ball rather than pull, particularly with two strikes.
 Fielder said, ''If I think home run, I'm all over the place.'' 
 And Howard said with a grin, ''Less is more.''
 Are these players, who all bat left-handed, heralding a new era of intelligent, back-to-basics hitters? Can they finally appease the ghosts of generations past? The Indians veteran Aaron Boone doesn't buy it.
 ''Go around this clubhouse and ask, 'Are you a pull hitter?' You'll get zero,'' he said. ''That's what everybody says.''
 Boone's skepticism is understandable, given that players spray cliches at least as well as flares to left. Pull hitters can seem somewhat Neanderthal, and to espouse fundamental hitting is akin to a hockey goon donning spectacles.
 Yet modern baseball's redeeming qualities not only include enticing left-handed hitters like Fielder, Howard and Mauer, but also include the data-gathering techniques to prove that these hitters really do focus on the opposite field. 
 Several statistics companies record the position of every batted ball. The method used by Stats LLC divides the 90 degrees of outfield space (in addition to some foul territory down the lines) into 26 sectors labeled A through Z. Letters up through M are to the left of dead center, while N through Z arc across right. From these measurements, one can derive the angle at which balls travel. 
 Mauer has been the most adept at going the other way. The balls he has slapped to the outfield since the beginning of last season have averaged a ''J'' angle, which translates to 30.7 degrees away from the left-field line, or roughly dead left-center field. 
 Howard has slammed 18 of his 25 homers this season to the opposite field -- many of them well over 400 feet. He has an average angle of just under 39 degrees, or the letter L. 
 A rookie batting .298 with 14 home runs, Fielder appears to be more of a pull hitter than either of the other two, clocking in at 43 degrees, or M.
 By comparison, more traditional veteran like Adam Dunn of the Reds and Jason Giambi of the Yankees pull far more to right. They come out at 51.7 and 54 degrees, hence the drastic (and often successful) defensive shifts against them. The young threesome is much more difficult to defend. 
 Howard, a large man at 6 feet 4 inches and 252 pounds, says he hits better when he swings less forcefully. The method is certainly working. Last season's National League rookie of the year, he is hitting .295 with 46 homers and 128 runs batted in since last July 1. 
 ''The more relaxed you are, the more loose you are and the easier, the faster, the quicker your swing is,'' Howard said. ''The more tense you are, if you're trying to swing the bat hard, the slower your bat becomes.''
 Mauer, with far less pure power than Howard or Fielder despite standing 6-6, brings other fundamentals to his game. He already has four bunt hits this season, half the Twins' total, and he stays more comfortable with two strikes than most pesky leadoff men.
 Mauer should develop more slugging ability as he grows into his body, just as John Olerud and Shawn Green did. But Mauer wants neither his approach nor the angles of his hits to deviate in the future. ''I'm not going to try to do too much,'' he said. ''That's when I get in trouble, when I try to use my body to catch up with the pitcher.''
 Scouts are raving about the swings of Howard, Fielder and Mauer. Lefties often have more aesthetically renowned strokes, like those of Olerud and Stan Musial. Right-handers with great swings, like Albert Pujols and Paul Molitor, are usually praised more for their economy and balance rather than for the pure beauty of their form.
 According to the Stats data, lefties spray the ball more often than right-handers, too. (The average lefty hit goes just to the left of dead center field, while right-handers on average pull the ball.) This probably has something to do with left-handers facing pitchers of the opposite hand more often, allowing them to take more outside pitches the opposite way. 
 Few accomplished hitters do it more than Mauer, Howard and Fielder, who clearly practice the ABC's of hitting. Or at least the JLM's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL (90%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (57%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (57%); MINNESOTA TWINS (56%)

PERSON: Alan Schwarz

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



534 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: New Speaker Shuffles Deck; Some Win, Some Lose

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
When there are 50 City Council members besides Speaker Christine C. Quinn, all vying for a share of the city's roughly $53 billion budget this year, bringing home the pork can turn into a popularity contest.
 The members who come out ahead invariably enjoy a close relationship with the speaker, whether because of a personal rapport or a political alliance. And figuring out just where a particular member stands is a favorite pastime among City Hall insiders and lobbyists.
''Stands to reason; new speaker, new pecking order,'' said Gene Russianoff, an attorney for the New York Public Interest Research Group since 1979, who has watched the jockeying by members under four leaders. 
 The council members are often little help in assessing their own standing, since nearly everyone will claim to be a friend of the speaker. Even those who have differences with Ms. Quinn take pains to maintain the appearance, at least, of cordial relations. 
 Leadership titles, too, can be misleading since these ensure only access to the speaker, and sometimes nothing more. ''There a difference between being in the room, and being in the room and being trusted and listened to,'' said Councilman Lewis A. Fidler of Brooklyn.
 Ms. Quinn herself has been careful not to show overt favoritism. Indeed, at news conferences, she acknowledges each member who is present, reciting their names from memory. 
 Even so, certain council members seem to be more in favor than others.
 Councilman Robert Jackson of Manhattan commands newfound respect since Ms. Quinn made him chairman of the influential Education Committee. Mr. Jackson was on the committee before but was overshadowed by the former chairwoman, Eva S. Moskowitz, a favorite of the last speaker, Gifford Miller.
 Ms. Quinn's affinity for Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. of Brooklyn has not escaped notice. The speaker often refers to Mr. Recchia, the chairman of the Cultural Affairs committee as the ''cultural czar,'' and is said to give more weight to cultural issues as a result.
 In what is widely seen as a nod to Brooklyn Democratic leaders, Ms. Quinn has helped raise the profiles of several of that borough's members. Councilman Erik Martin Dilan was tapped to lead the Housing and Buildings Committee, and Councilwoman Diana Reyna, the Rules, Privileges and Elections Committee. 
 Another Brooklyn member, Mr. Fidler, the assistant majority leader, seems to have joined Ms. Quinn's inner circle after running against her last fall for speaker. 
 Members say that Ms. Quinn consults Councilman Leroy G. Comrie Jr. of Queens, the deputy majority leader, who works behind the scenes to build consensus among the minority members. They say that she is also fond of the youthful majority leader, Joel Rivera, whose father is the Bronx Democratic leader, buts takes him far less seriously.
 Rosie Mendez, Inez E. Dickens, and Dan Garodnick, new council members from Manhattan, have been quick to gain Ms. Quinn's ear, members say. Another Manhattan member, Councilwoman Jessica S. Lappin, a former aide to Mr. Miller, with whom Ms. Quinn remains close, was put in charge of a small but influential landmarks subcommittee.
 In contrast, several returning council members have seen their fortunes wane with the change in speakers. Queens Councilwoman Melinda R. Katz, who heads the powerful Land Use Committee, is said to have had more clout with Mr. Miller. So, too, did Councilman Eric Gioia of Queens, who was often spotted riding with Mr. Miller in his city-issued sport utility vehicle. 
 Councilman James Sanders Jr. of Queens has made himself scarce since his removal as chairman of the Economic Development Committee, members say. In a rare display of discontent, Mr. Sanders protested on the Council floor by invoking the spirit of Friedrich Nietzsche, saying, ''What doesn't kill me makes me stronger.''
 Councilwoman Letitia James, of Brooklyn remains active, though she was one of the few members denied a committee posting by Ms. Quinn.
 But then being out with the speaker can have its advantages, too. Councilman Charles Barron, a former Black Panther, is a perennial favorite of the City Hall press corps because he is the most outspoken critic of Ms. Quinn's policies. 
 Still, even Mr. Barron does not hesitate to stand beside Ms. Quinn during news conferences on education and minority issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LOBBYING (75%) Patronage; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; City Councils

PERSON: Winnie Hu; Christine C (Council Speaker) Quinn; Robert (Councilman) Jackson; Domenic M (Councilman) Recchia; Erik Martin (Councilman) Dilan; Diana (Councilwoman) Reyna; Joel (Councilman) Rivera; Leroy G Jr (Councilman) Comrie; Lewis A (Councilman) Fidler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



535 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Defectors Take a Crash Course in Coping

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: ANSEONG, South Korea 

 BODY:
On a sprawling campus hidden in farmland here, about 300 North Koreans are learning that, no, actually, it was not the South that started the Korean War.
 And, yes, America is an ally, their re-education goes, before broaching the A B C's of capitalism, human rights and democracy. Field trips focus on how to apply for a job or use an automated teller machine. Women are shown the finer points of home decorating; men, the basic skills to fix the home boiler.
Soon after landing in South Korea, all North Korean defectors come here to the South Korean government's main resettlement center, called Hanawon, or to an annex, for a three-month crash course on life south of the demilitarized zone.
 It is the first step in a long and often bewildering process of adapting to a South Korean society that has regarded them, over time, as cold war enemies, long-lost cousins or pitiable objects of curiosity. Born and reared in one of the most isolated nations, they are taught everything from the theoretical to the mundane before plunging headlong into the real world. 
 ''When they arrive here,'' said the center's director general, Lee Choong Won, ''they realize they've been living like frogs in a well.''
 Thousands have found their way into South Korea in the past half-decade -- there were a total of 8,428 North Korean defectors in the South by the end of May -- and they have started carving out a space for themselves in this society, though often as second-class citizens.
 For South Koreans, the defectors and the resettlement center, which is about 50 miles south of Seoul, provide an indication of the enormous task ahead if they are to reunite one day with 23 million North Koreans. 
 To hear North Koreans tell it, South Korea is bewildering precisely because it is at once familiar and alien. The South and North share a common language, but in half a century of division, South Koreans have adopted so many foreign words that the newcomers spend hours learning the language spoken in the South.
 ''Only after 10 years did I understand how the South Korean society works,'' said Lee Joon Ho, 41, who arrived in South Korea in 1993, before the current wave of defectors.
 ''In North Korea, if you were loyal to the system, you were provided a job and housing, and your needs were met,'' added Mr. Lee, who has held so many jobs in the South that his friends have nicknamed him MacGyver, after the resourceful television character. ''But here in South Korea, individuals have to take responsibility and create their own system.''
 The North Koreans arrive at the center here after a month in the custody of the National Intelligence Service. No road signs point to the center, which is surrounded by fences and is well guarded. Center officials tend to shun publicity, partly for security reasons, partly because South Korea does not want to be seen helping people the North considers traitors.
 Officials provided a rare glimpse of the center, though they did not allow current students or teachers to be interviewed. Graduates interviewed separately in Seoul, however, said that not even such an intense course could prepare them for the gap between the northern and southern sides of the Korean peninsula.
 Here in his office, Mr. Lee, the center's director, recalled ancient times when the Korean peninsula was divided into three kingdoms.
 ''There were exchanges among the three kingdoms, but in the last 50 years, there was no interaction between the South and North, and the North developed its own unique culture,'' he said, glancing occasionally at a closed-circuit television that showed a classroom of women, dressed in red uniforms, learning about psychology and the differences between logical and intuitive people.
 About 6,900 North Koreans have graduated from the center since it was established in 1999. 
 Very few defectors came to South Korea until the mid-1990's, when famine in the North sent many refugees into China. Since then, as a network of South Korean evangelical Christian missionaries and smugglers has established itself in China, the numbers have sharply risen, with more than 1,000 defectors coming to South Korea every year since 2002. Today, defectors already in the South routinely get their relatives out of the North, provided they have the money.
 Although China is a stopping point for defectors, South Korea is still the only country to have taken in large numbers of North Koreans; the United States, for example, began accepting its first refugees from the North only in May.
 Graduates of the three-month resettlement program receive a $20,000 stipend and are provided with low-cost public housing. They are also entitled to welfare benefits in case of unemployment and cash incentives for job training.
 Out in the real world, many defectors who have come here with unrealistically high expectations find out that they are prepared for only the most menial of jobs. Many move from one part-time job to another.
 Many companies say they simply do not hire North Koreans, said Lee Chul Min, a defector who is an official at NKD, the Association of North Korean Defectors, a private organization in Seoul that helps defectors.
 ''If a North Korean worker makes a mistake, it's generalized to all North Koreans,'' Mr. Lee said, adding that the North Korean identity itself becomes a handicap here.
 Even defectors who have succeeded professionally in the South say the realization that they were considered second-class citizens was a psychological blow.
 For Joo Sung Ha, 31, a reporter for Dong-A Ilbo, a major daily newspaper, the realization came soon after he fled the North and entered China. A South Korean businessman there, he said, treated him with contempt after learning that he was from the North.
 ''He was just a small businessman without even a university degree,'' said Mr. Joo, who said he had graduated from Kim Il Sung University in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, with a degree in Chinese and English. ''Back in North Korea, I was an elite. So it was difficult to be condescended to by someone like him.''
 More often, the discrimination or offense is unintentional, North Koreans acknowledge. South Koreans will offer them copious amounts of food on the assumption they must be hungry or ask them whether they have ever tried a basic food.
 ''Even my co-workers ask me questions like whether we're allowed to date in North Korea,'' said a 36-year-old defector employed in food delivery. The defector, who asked that his name not be used, arrived in South Korea last year and was able to get his wife and two children out of the North and to South Korea in April after paying smugglers $10,000.
 Like many defectors, he felt complex, sometimes contradictory, desires to assert his roots and to be considered part of South Korea.
 ''When people ask me whether I'm an ethnic Korean from China because of my accent, not only do I feel discriminated against, I feel disillusioned,'' he said, repeating a common complaint.
 Kim Sun Hwa, a South Korean who is director of the government-sponsored Gong Neung Welfare Center in northeast Seoul, a district where more than 700 defectors live, said many defectors, especially the young, coped with discrimination by trying to hide their North Korean roots. 
 One 37-year-old defector who had lost his North Korean accent did not hide his origins at work, a large auto parts maker. In fact, the Chinese he had learned during his three years of hiding in China now helped him in doing business with Chinese partners.
 But his South Korean wife's parents had initially objected to their marriage because he is North Korean. They relented only after her father had a stroke and then decided that he wanted to see his daughter settled in a marriage as soon as possible. Today, his wife still hides his roots from their friends.
 ''One part of me says it's convenient,'' he said of his wife's decision. ''Another part of me is sad. I know there's no advantage in telling everyone I'm North Korean, but it's who I am.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Joon Ho, a North Korean defector, said resettlement was difficult.
 Joo Sung Ha, now a reporter, said he faced discrimination as a defector. (Photographs by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KOREAN WAR (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (57%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (56%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) Discrimination

PERSON: Onishi Norimitsu

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) North Korea; South Korea ; Anseong (South Korea); North Korea

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



536 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE: A Modern Gold Rush; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2479 words

HEADLINE: For Good or Ill, Boom in Ethanol Reshapes Economy of Heartland 

BYLINE: This article was reported by Alexei Barrionuevo, Simon Romero and Michael Janofsky and written by Mr. Barrionuevo.; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Chicago for this article, Simon Romero from Hereford, Tex., and Michael Janofsky from Washington.

 BODY:
Dozens of factories that turn corn into the gasoline substitute ethanol are sprouting up across the nation, from Tennessee to Kansas, and California, often in places hundreds of miles away from where corn is grown.
 Once considered the green dream of the environmentally sensitive, ethanol has become the province of agricultural giants that have long pressed for its use as fuel, as well as newcomers seeking to cash in on a bonanza.
The modern-day gold rush is driven by a number of factors: generous government subsidies, surging demand for ethanol as a gasoline supplement, a potent blend of farm-state politics and the prospect of generating more than a 100 percent profit in less than two years. 
 The rush is taking place despite concerns that large-scale diversion of agricultural resources to fuel could result in price increases for food for people and livestock, as well as the transformation of vast preserved areas into farmland. 
 Even in the small town of Hereford, in the middle of the Texas Panhandle's cattle country and hundreds of miles from the agricultural heartland, two companies are rushing to build plants to turn corn into fuel.
 As a result, Hereford has become a flashpoint in the ethanol boom that is helping to reshape part of rural America's economic base.
 Despite continuing doubts about whether the fuel provides a genuine energy saving, at least 39 new ethanol plants are expected to be completed over the next 9 to 12 months, projects that will push the United States past Brazil as the world's largest ethanol producer. 
 The new plants will add 1.4 billion gallons a year, a 30 percent increase over current production of 4.6 billion gallons, according to Dan Basse, president of AgResources, an economic forecasting firm in Chicago. By 2008, analysts predict, ethanol output could reach 8 billion gallons a year.
 For all its allure, though, there are hidden risks to the boom. Even as struggling local communities herald the expansion of this ethanol-industrial complex and politicians promote its use as a way to decrease America's energy dependence on foreign oil, the ethanol phenomenon is creating some unexpected jitters in crucial corners of farm country.
 A few agricultural economists and food industry executives are quietly worrying that ethanol, at its current pace of development, could strain food supplies, raise costs for the livestock industry and force the use of marginal farmland in the search for ever more acres to plant corn.
 ''This is a bit like a gold rush,'' warned Warren R. Staley, the chief executive of Cargill, the multinational agricultural company based in Minnesota. ''There are unintended consequences of this euphoria to expand ethanol production at this pace that people are not considering.''
 Mr. Staley has his own reasons to worry, because Cargill has a stake in keeping the price of corn low enough to supply its vast interests in processed food and livestock.
 But many energy experts are also questioning the benefits of ethanol to the nation's fuel supply. While it is a renewable, domestically produced fuel that reduces gasoline pollution, large amounts of oil or natural gas go into making ethanol from corn, leaving its net contribution to reducing the use of fossil fuels much in doubt. 
 As one of the hottest investments around, however, few in farm country want to hear any complaints these days about the risks associated with ethanol. Archer Daniels Midland, the politically connected agricultural processing company in Decatur, Ill., and the industry leader that has been a longstanding champion of transforming corn into a fuel blend, has enjoyed a doubling in its stock price and profits in the last year.
 One ethanol producer has already sold shares to the public and two more are planning to do so. And the get-rich-quick atmosphere has drawn in a range of investors, including small farm cooperatives, hedge funds and even Bill Gates.
 For all the interest in ethanol, however, it is doubtful whether it can serve as the energy savior President Bush has identified. He has called for biofuels -- which account for just 3 percent of total gasoline usage -- to replace roughly 1.6 million barrels a day of oil imported from the Persian Gulf.

New Jobs, New Life
 To fill that gap with corn-based ethanol alone, agricultural experts say that production would have to rise to more than 50 billion gallons a year; at least half the nation's farmland would need to be used to grow corn for fuel. But that isn't stopping out-of-the-way towns looking for ways to pump life into local economies wracked by population loss, farm consolidation and low prices from treating the rush into ethanol as a godsend.
 ''These projects are bringing 100 new jobs to our town,'' said Don Cumpton, Hereford's director of economic development and a former football coach at the high school. ''It's not as if Dell computer's going to be setting up shop here. We'd be nuts to turn something like this down.''
 That the United States is using corn, among the more expensive crops to grow and harvest, to help meet the country's fuel needs is a testament to the politics underlying ethanol's 30-year rise to prominence. Brazilian farmers produce ethanol from sugar at a cost roughly 30 percent less. 
 But in America's farm belt, politicians have backed the ethanol movement as a way to promote the use of corn, the nation's most plentiful and heavily subsidized crop. Those generous government subsidies have kept corn prices artificially low -- at about $2 a bushel -- and encouraged flat-out production by farmers, leading to large surpluses symbolized by golden corn piles towering next to grain silos in Iowa and Illinois.
 While farmers are seeing little of the huge profits ethanol refiners like Archer Daniels Midland are banking, many farmers are investing in ethanol plants through cooperatives or simply benefiting from the rising demand for corn. With Iowa home to the nation's first presidential caucuses every four years, just about every candidate who visits the state pays obeisance to ethanol. 
 ''There is zero daylight'' between Democrats and Republicans in the region, said Ken Cook, president of Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit research policy group in Washington, and a veteran observer of agricultural politics. ''All incumbents and challengers in Midwestern farm country are by definition ethanolics.''
 The ethanol explosion began in the 1970's and 1980's, when ADM's chief executive, Dwayne O. Andreas, was a generous campaign contributor and well-known figure in the halls of Congress who helped push the idea of transforming corn into fuel.
 Ethanol can be produced from a number of agricultural feed stocks, including corn and sugar cane, and someday, wheat and straw. But given the glut in corn, the early strategy of Mr. Andreas was to drum up interest in ethanol on the state level among corn farmers and persuade Washington to provide generous tax incentives. But in 1990, when Congress mandated the use of a supplement in gasoline to help limit emissions, ADM lost out to the oil industry, which won the right to use the cheaper methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, derived from natural gas, to fill the 10 percent fuel requirement. 

Past Scandal
 Adding to its woes, ADM was marred by scandal in 1996 when several company executives, including one of the sons of Mr. Andreas, were convicted of conspiracy to fix lysine markets. The company was fined $100 million. Since then, ADM's direct political clout in Washington may have waned a bit but it still pursues its policy preferences through a series of trade organizations, notably the Renewable Fuels Association.
 Some 14 months ago the company hired Shannon Herzfeld, a leading lobbyist for the pharmaceutical industry. But she is not a registered lobbyist for ADM and said in an interview that the company was maintaining its long-held policy that it does not lobby Congress directly.
 ''Nobody is deferential to ADM,'' contended Ms. Herzfeld, who says she spends little time on Capitol Hill.
 But ADM has not lost interest in promoting ethanol among farm organizations, politicians and the news media. It is by far the biggest beneficiary of more than $2 billion in government subsidies the ethanol industry receives each year, via a 51-cent-a-gallon tax credit given to refiners and blenders that mix ethanol into their gasoline. ADM will earn an estimated $1.3 billion from ethanol alone in the 2007 fiscal year, up from $556 million this year, said David Driscoll, a food manufacturing analyst at Citigroup.
 [And the company may be concerned by the recent statement by Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman, who suggested that if prices remain high, lawmakers should consider ending the ethanol subsidy when it expires in 2010. ''The question needs to be thought about,'' he said on Friday.] 
 ADM has huge production facilities that dwarf those of its competitors. With seven big plants, the company controls 1.1 billion gallons of ethanol production, or about 24 percent of the country's capacity. ADM can make more than four times what VeraSun, ADM's closest ethanol rival, can produce. 
 Last year, spurred by soaring energy prices, the ethanol lobby broke through in its long campaign to win acceptance outside the corn belt, inserting a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that calls for the use of 5 billion gallons a year of ethanol by 2007, growing to at least 7.5 billion gallons in 2012. The industry is now expected to produce about 6 billion gallons next year.
 The phased removal of MTBE from gasoline, a result of concerns that the chemical contaminates groundwater and can lead to potential health problems, hastened the changeover. Now, government officials are also pushing for increasing use of an 85-percent ethanol blend, called E85, which requires automakers to modify their engines and fuel injection systems. 
 In the ultimate nod to ADM's successful efforts, Mr. Bodman announced the new initiatives in February at the company's headquarters in Illinois.
 ''It's been 30 years since we got a call from the White House asking for the agriculture industry, ADM in particular, to take a serious look at the possibilities of building facilities to produce alternative sources of energy for our fuel supply in the United States,'' said G. Allen Andreas, ADM's chairman and Dwayne Andreas' nephew.
 Now, ADM is betting even more of its future on ethanol, embracing a shift from food processing to energy production as its focus. In April, it hired Patricia A. Woertz, a former executive from the oil giant Chevron, as the company's new chief executive.
 While ADM has pushed ethanol, rivals like Cargill have been more skeptical. To Mr. Staley, ethanol is overpromoted as a solution to the nation's energy challenges, and the growth in production, if unchecked, has the potential to ravage America's livestock industry and harm the nation's reliability as an exporter of corn and its byproducts.

Threat to Food Production
 ''Unless we have huge increases in productivity, we will have a huge problem with food production,'' Mr. Staley said. ''And the world will have to make choices.''
 Last year corn production topped 11 billion bushels -- second only to 2004's record harvest. But many analysts doubt whether the scientists and farmers can keep up with the ethanol merchants.
 ''By the middle of 2007, there will be a food fight between the livestock industry and this biofuels or ethanol industry,'' Mr. Basse, the economic forecaster, said. ''As the corn price reaches up above $3 a bushel, the livestock industry will be forced to raise prices or reduce their herds. At that point the U.S. consumer will start to see rising food prices or food inflation.'' 
 If that occurs, the battleground is likely to shift to some 35 million acres of land set aside under a 1985 program for conservation and to help prevent overproduction. Farmers are paid an annual subsidy averaging $48 an acre not to raise crops on the land. But the profit lure of ethanol could be great enough to push the acreage, much of it considered marginal, back into production.
 Mr. Staley fears that could distract farmers from the traditional primary goal of agriculture, raising food for people and animals. ''We have to look at the hierarchy of value for agricultural land use,'' he said in a May speech in Washington. ''Food first, then feed'' for livestock, ''and last fuel.''
 And even Cargill is hedging its bets. It recently announced plans to nearly double its American ethanol capacity to 220 million gallons a year. Meanwhile, the flood of ethanol plant announcements is making the American livestock industry nervous about corn production. ''I think we can keep up, assuming we get normal weather,'' said Greg Doud, the chief economist at the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. ''But what happens when Mother Nature crosses us up and we get a bad corn year?''
 Beyond improving corn yields, the greatest hope for ethanol lies with refining technology that can produce the fuel from more efficient renewable resources, like a form of fuel called cellulosic ethanol from straw, switchgrass or even agricultural waste. While still years away, cellulosic ethanol could help overcome the concerns inherent in relying almost exclusively on corn to make ethanol and make the advance toward E85 that much quicker.
 ''The cost of the alternative -- of staying addicted to oil and filling our atmosphere with greenhouse gases, and keeping other countries beholden to high gasoline prices -- is unacceptable,'' said Nathanael Greene, senior policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York. ''We have to struggle through the challenges of growing and producing biofuels in the right way.''
 But the current incentives to make ethanol from corn are too attractive for producers and investors to worry about the future. With oil prices at $70 a barrel sharply lifting the prices paid for ethanol, the average processing plant is earning a net profit of more than $5 a bushel on the corn it is buying for about $2 a bushel, Mr. Basse said. And that is before the 51-cent-a-gallon tax credit given to refiners and blenders that incorporate ethanol into their gasoline.
 ''It is truly yellow gold,'' Mr. Basse said.

 (*Includes new construction and expansion to current facilities)

Ethanol's Influence
The projected growth of ethanol . . .

Graph tracks total ethanol production from 1980-2010. (some later figures are projected)

. . . is expected to change the economics of growing corn.

Graph tracks total corn production (and amount used for ethanol) from 1980-2010. (some later figures are projected)

(Sources by National Ethanol Vehicle Association; Renewable Fuels Association; Department of Agriculture; Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company; National Corn Growers Association)(pg. 18)

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about the development of ethanol plants gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the surname of the chief economist at the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, who is concerned about how the production of the biofuel could affect corn supplies. It is Gregg Doud, not Dowd. Because of an editing error, the article referred imprecisely to plants in Fulton, N.Y., and Savannah, Ga., in some copies. They are in the planning stages; they are not yet operating.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Hereford, a small town in the Texas Panhandle's cattle country, two companies are rushing to build plants to turn corn into fuel. (Photo by David Bowser for The New York Times)(pg. 18)Chart: ''Fuel on the Cob''Ethanol is grain alcohol that can be made from a variety of crops, including sugar cane, but in the United States it is mostly derived from corn. Policy makers and some environmentalists say that ethanol can help reduce reliance on imported fossil fuels and cut greenhouse gases. But some experts argue that the energy use that goes into growing corn and producing ethanol may be more than is gained by a gallon of ethanol.Replacing MTBE In 1990, Congress required that gasoline contain a 10 percent additive to help control smog. It allowed methyl tertiary butyl ether, which emerged as by far the most popular choice. But since then, health and environmental concerns about MTBE have lead to a switch to ethanol as the additive in many states.E-85 is 85 percent ethanol mixed with 15 percent gasoline, promoted as a way to cut fossil fuel consumption. But only about 5 million ''flexible-fuel'' cars that can run on E-85 have been produced, out of about 238 million vehicles in use in the United States.Ethanol ProducersThe 12 biggest ethanol suppliers control 50 percent of the market, with Archer Daniels Midland the largest producer.1. Archer Daniels MidlandCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 1,070Number of plants: 7Share of the market: 24%2. VeraSunCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 230Number of plants: 2Share of the market: 53. Aventine Renewable EnergyCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 150Number of plants: 2Share of the market: 34. CargillCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 120Number of plants: 2Share of the market: 35. Abengoa BioenergyCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 110Number of plants: 3Share of the market: 26. Hawkeye RenewablesCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 105Number of plants: 2Share of the market: 27. New EnergyCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 102Number of plants: 1Share of the market: 28. Midwest Grain Processors*Current capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 100Number of plants: 1Share of the market: 29. MGP IngredientsCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 78Number of plants: 1Share of the market: 210. Tate & LyleCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 67Number of plants: 1Share of the market: 111. Chief EthanolCurrent capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 62Number of plants: 1Share of the market: 112. Sioux River Ethanol*Current capacity (as of March), in millions of gallons a year: 55Number of plants: 1Share of the market: 1*Farmer-ownedWhile overwhelmingly concentrated in corn-growing regions, ethanol production is starting to spread beyond its Midwestern roots.Map of the continental United States highlighting the following:Corn acres by county, 2002Ethanol plant capacity, in millions of gallons a year

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Energy and Power; Ethanol; Factories and Industrial Plants; Agriculture; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Surveys and Series; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy and Power

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



537 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
PALMER, GLORIA ELHAT

 BODY:
 PALMER--Gloria Elhat. 78, of Shushan, NY, died peacefully at her home Wednesday, June 21, 2006 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. She was the loving wife of James Wesley Palmer, who died June 14, 2004. Born January 8, 1928 in Brooklyn NY, she was the daughter of Mary Adams and Thomas Joseph Elhat. 
She grew up in Brooklyn and was active with the Girl Scouts, which remained a life long interest. Gloria was also an avid and loyal Brooklyn Dodger fan, going to every baseball game she could at Ebbets Field. She graduated from Hamilton High School and Adelphi University in Garden City. She earned her Master of Arts degree in mathematical statistics from Columbia University. Gloria went to work for the Bell Telephone system on Broadway in NYC, where she was the first woman hired for their executive staff. She worked there for her entire career. Her job was to develop trends and forecasting in expenses and revenue and personal statistics. Late in her career she provided economic forecasts for Alan Greenspan. She was very active with the American Statistical Association. Gloria purchased her home in Shushan NY in 1977 and moved there when she retired. On April 30, 1994 she married her longtime friend, James Palmer and they enjoyed a wonderful life together caring for each other and traveling the world. Gloria was a communicant of St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Cambridge where she served as a vestry member. She is survived by her niece, Gloria Zahkes of Norwich VT, a nephew, a niece and several cousins. A Memorial Service will take place on Saturday, July 8 at 11 A.M. at St. Luke's Episcopal Church. In accordance with her wishes, Gloria's body has been given to the Albany Medical College Anatomical Gifts Program. Memorial donations may be made to St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 4 St. Luke's Place, Cambridge, NY 12816 and directed to Gloria Elhat Palmer Foundation. For Gloria's online guestbook, please visit www.mcclellan funeralservice.com. For more information: McClellan Funeral Service, Salem NY, 518-854-3555. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BASEBALL (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN STATISTICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



538 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: JUNE 19-23; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Listless Markets Await Guidance From the Fed 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market declined modestly in a week of listless trading as investors waited for a hint from the Federal Reserve about how high interest rates might climb. 
 The central bank's policy makers are scheduled to meet on Thursday and are expected to raise their benchmark short-term interest rate, the federal funds rate, for the 17th consecutive time, to 5.25 percent. Whether they intend to continue to raise rates at subsequent meetings remains in doubt, and Wall Street will be scrutinizing Fed statements closely.
 While it was a quiet week for the market as a whole, shares of two oil and gas companies soared on takeover bids from Anadarko Petroleum. Kerr-McGee jumped 33.7 percent for the week and Western Gas Resources climbed 41.5 percent.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 25.46 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 10,989.09. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 7.04 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,244.50. The Nasdaq Composite index dropped 8.48 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,121.47. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed to 5.22 percent from 5.13 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.CarMaxNYSE: KMXThe company reported a 54 percent jump in fiscal first-quarter profit on strong sales. It also said that 2007 earnings per share were expected to be near the high end of Wall Street estimates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $35.23WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.84%EST. '06 P/E: 24.31NovellNNM: NOVLThe board of the network software maker ousted Jack L. Messman, its chief executive, and Joseph S. Tibbetts Jr., its chief financial officer, in the latest effort to reverse the company's lackluster performance.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: 6.66WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.07%EST. '06 P/E: 47.57CarnivalNYSE: CCLThe cruise operator reported a 2 percent decline in quarterly profit. It also said its board had approved a new $1 billion stock buyback plan, which fueled a rally in the company's shares.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $40.79WEEK'S CHANGE: +1.49%EST. '06 P/E: 15.02FedExNYSE: FDXThe package carrier said that its fourth-quarter earnings surged 27 percent, which was more than Wall Street had expected. The company also raised its profit forecast for the year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $115.04WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.93%EST. '06 P/E: 16.96VonageNYSE: VGTwo units of Verizon filed a lawsuit in a Virginia federal court alleging that Vonage infringed on seven patents related to Voice-Over Internet Protocol technology. Vonage said it would ''vigorously defend'' itself in the suit.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: 8.75WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.85%EST. '06 P/E: ----UnivisionNYSE: UVNAfter a bid of about $35.50 a share -- or less than $11 billion -- for the Spanish-language broadcasting company was rejected as too low, a group of investors led by Mexico's Grupo Televisa made a new bid on Friday.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.95WEEK'S CHANGE: -7.83%EST. '06 P/E: 30.74Morgan StanleyNYSE: MSMorgan Stanley reported robust second-quarter results, far surpassing analysts' forecasts. It said its net income more than doubled from a year earlier, to $1.9 billion. Revenue was $8.9 billion, a 48 percent jump from last year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $59.70WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.76%EST. '06 P/E:10.10Darden RestaurantsNYSE: DRIThe owner of Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurants said its quarterly profit rose 10 percent from the year-earlier period. It said sales gained 8.5 percent. It also issued a better-than-expected outlook for 2007.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.15WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.05%EST. '06 P/E: 15.76(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (56%)

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (56%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



539 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Note to the New Treasury Secretary: It's Time to Raise Taxes

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:

Mr. Henry M. Paulson Jr.
The Goldman Sachs Group
New York, N.Y.

Dear Mr. Paulson:
 You almost certainly don't remember little me, but I met you many years ago when you worked on what I think was the Domestic Council under the redoubtable John D. Ehrlichman. Even then, you were an intense and clearly brilliant young man. Since then, time has proven you to be a brilliant and intense middle-aged man. To become chairman of an empire like Goldman Sachs is a spectacular achievement by any measure.
But now you have your work cut out for you as Treasury secretary. You are facing what is, in many ways, the most dangerous economic future since the Depression. Danger is coming on many fronts, only dimly seen by the powers that be in Washington, and your insights and eloquence will be urgently necessary. 
 Just to give you an idea what you are up against, Standard & Poor's issued a warning not long ago. The caution was that if the United States government did not seriously alter fiscal policy, Treasury bonds would be downgraded to BBB, slightly above junk status, by 2020. This is a stunning piece of news for the world's most highly rated security denominated in its primary reserve currency. The S.& P. report said further that if the nation did not make serious changes after that, by 2025 Treasuries would be junk bonds, like the bonds of less successful emerging-markets nations.
 These downgrades would occur because the federal budget deficit and the cumulative national debt would be so high relative to the gross domestic product. This debt would presumably come largely from Social Security and Medicare obligations, considered sacred contracts by American taxpayers. (The statement said similar downgrades would also happen to other major countries in the developed world that have large aging populations.)
 Just to get an idea of the size of the structural cumulative deficit for Medicare alone, Phil DeMuth, along with others, has calculated that the total Medicare obligations for the balance of this century, if brought down to net present value at the long-term bond rate, would exceed the wealth of the entire nation. This means that if you sold every home, every farm, every factory, every business in America and invested the money in something that returned as much as long-term bonds, there would not be enough to pay for the foreseeable Medicare expenditures of this nation in the 21st century. And that's not counting Social Security or the military or the interest on the debt or the livelihood of 300 million Americans.
 Can you imagine, Mr. Paulson, what it will mean to Americans in terms of our currency's value, in terms of the interest we will have to pay to foreign creditors, if our bonds reach junk status? Can you imagine just how crippling a burden this will be on taxpayers?
 It gets worse. The annual trade deficit with the rest of the world is approaching $1 trillion. It's not there yet, but we're on our way. This means we have to transfer ownership of roughly $1 trillion of our assets to foreigners every year to cover our excess of international purchases over sales. But the total worth of all the assets in the United States is not greatly more than $50 trillion. To be sure, it rises annually. But even so, we are basically transferring the value of an average of one of our 50 states to foreign investors every year. This trend looks unsustainable to me (unless we are to revert to being a colony -- this time, of China).
 Again, the downgrades and the deficits in the current account and the federal budget will have major effects on the dollar's value, which will mean major inflationary effects. If experience is any guide, these effects will slow real economic growth.
 Right now, inflation is moving out of the Federal Reserve's comfort zone. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is doing the right thing by raising rates and trying to slow the overheated economy, but in a way that does not bring us a recession. To give us a soft landing without recession or stagflation -- rising inflation and slow growth, as we had in a good part of the 1970's -- is not an easy or assured task. 
 To raise rates enough to slow down our economy and thus bring down commodity prices amid skyrocketing demand in developing economies is certainly not easy. To do this correctly, you'd need to be a brain surgeon of monetary policy and a cardiac ace of fiscal policy. In other words, there is a great, great deal to be worried about.
 May I respectfully suggest that in this environment, ending the estate tax is not a major sensible priority? May I suggest that having the lowest taxes in 65 years on high-income taxpayers is not really as prudent as it might be if we were not running stupendous deficits, with far worse in the future?
 I know you are a Republican, and so am I. Now and then, scornful fellow Republicans ask me what kind of Republican I am, since I'm for higher taxes on the rich. I tell them that I am an Eisenhower Republican, the kind who wants to leave a healthier America to posterity. That includes an economy not headed for the status of a banana republic's economy. 
 Now, I know that a truly great man, Ronald Wilson Reagan, when asked if he were not worried that his tax cuts would burden posterity with a heavy weight, supposedly asked, ''What has posterity ever done for me?'' Those of us with teenage children certainly know what he meant. But the problem is no longer quite as funny. 
 The fiscal house is in severe disorder. I love President Bush, and I believe that he wants to do the right thing. I know for sure that Karl Rove is a genius and wants to do the right thing as he sees it (which may well be totally different from how I see it). Mr. Bernanke knows what's right and wrong. You will have allies. But someone needs to take a stand, and that person might as well be you. 
 The time is always right to do right, and now is a good time to start. This one will make running Goldman Sachs look easy.

Respectfully submitted,
Ben Stein


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); MEDICARE (87%); TAX INCREASES (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (71%); AGING TRENDS (71%); AGING (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); CURRENCIES (65%) Taxation; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%) Ben Stein; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



540 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Counterterrorism in the U.K.; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 8232 words

HEADLINE: After Londonistan

BYLINE: By Christopher Caldwell. 
Christopher Caldwell, a contributing writer, is at work on a book about immigration, Islam and Europe.

 BODY:
I.
 ''Behold!'' reads an official police notice on the waiting-room wall at the Bethnal Green police station, in the East London borough of Tower Hamlets. ''Fear from people should not prevent one from saying the truth if he knows it.'' It is a hadith saying of the Prophet Muhammad, stuck amid a row of posters urging Britons to do their civic duty and report any crimes they might get wind of. Tower Hamlets, which includes large Bengali and Somali communities, is a majority-minority borough. Someone there apparently felt that the hadith poster might help woo those for whom civic duty was an insufficient spur. 
Today, Britain has more than a million and a half Muslims. A million live in London, where they make up an eighth of the population. They are not just the refugees and tempest-tossed laborers of the developing world, large though those groups may be. London's West End is full of Saudi princes and financiers, and journalists and politicians from around the Arab world; its East End is home to erudite theologians from the Indian subcontinent, along with some unhinged ones. In the 1980's and 90's, a hands-off government allowed London to become a haven for radicals and a center for calls to jihad. Culturally and politically (and theologically and gastronomically), London ranks among the capitals of the Muslim world and is certainly its chief point of contact with the United States and the rest of the West. Since last July 7, when four young British Muslims used backpack bombs to take their own lives and those of 52 others on London's public-transport system, getting information out of the city's various Muslim communities has become a desperate preoccupation of British law enforcement.
Lord Carlile of Berriew, a Welshman who is Britain's independent reviewer of counterterrorism laws, has wide access to classified intelligence about terrorism plans. He is the last person you would expect to hype the dangers. For one thing, his party, the Liberal Democrats, has reaped electoral gains by opposing Tony Blair's war on terror, particularly Blair's belief that Iraq is a front in that war. For another, Lord Carlile has made a name for himself as a civil libertarian -- a champion of legal underdogs from the terminally ill to the transsexual -- and civil libertarians are the ones who have led the opposition to antiterror measures. ''How serious is it?'' he asked, sitting beside a conference-room table in his law chambers off the Strand on a sunny morning this spring. ''Very. Complacency, tempting though it is, is the worst possible attitude. We've been fortunate we haven't had more attacks. There will be more.''
 British unease about terrorism has deepened in recent weeks. In early June, hundreds of London police officers, backed by chemical-weapons experts, raided a row house and shot a man in Forest Gate, a heavily South Asian neighborhood, reportedly acting on a tip that some kind of cyanide device was inside. They discovered nothing -- aside from hostile neighbors and the outrage of several influential Muslim organizations. 
 Not long before, a report on last summer's bombings, issued by the Home Office, which is in charge of national law enforcement, told a disturbing story of normal English Muslim kids turning into terrorists. Three of the bombers were Englishmen of Pakistani descent from Beeston, a neighborhood in Leeds. One was a Jamaican-born Muslim convert from nearby Huddersfield. A few years ago, all of them would have been considered part of the new, multicultural England branded ''Cool Britannia'' in the press and bragged about by government and citizens alike. Especially demoralizing was the posthumous video message of 30-year-old Mohammad Sidique Khan, the ringleader, which was broadcast on Al Jazeera two months after his death. His claims that Muslims were being mistreated throughout the world were familiar enough from other suicide-bomber videos. But Khan's thick, native Yorkshire accent -- like something that had strayed out of a film adaptation of a Bronte novel, or a documentary about striking miners -- was disheartening to British viewers. By then, Khan's white childhood friends had made it known that they had called him Sid and had been really fond of him. One told the BBC, ''I just thought of him as a Beeston lad, and that's what he was -- a Beeston lad, born and bred.''
 Seven or eight major plots were reportedly broken up between 2001 and the July 7 bombings. One involved a ricin attack on the Heathrow Express train planned by terrorists linked to a radical Algerian group. Since July 7, there have been four more serious terror plots -- including a widely reported incident last year on July 21 when four suicide bombs failed to detonate. The would-be terrorists were arrested days later, but not before a Brazilian on his way to work was mistaken for one of them and shot dead by the police in the Stockwell Underground station. Considering that Britain is less despised among the world's Islamist radicals than the United States, and that its Muslim communities are, by and large, smaller, better-integrated and more prosperous than those on the continent, this is a lot of activity. 

II.
 ''Let no one be in any doubt,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair told the country a month after last July's attacks. ''The rules of the game are changing.'' Britain has been adjusting its terror laws since the Blair government came to power in 1997. But Sept. 11, 2001, sparked calls for broad new government powers, and July 7, 2005, has created a consensus -- a fragile one, but a consensus nonetheless -- that even those are insufficient. The new rules Blair spoke of were to be found in a 12-point plan that included tighter enforcement of asylum and deportation, blacklists of extremist bookshops and bans on hard-line Islamist groups. Some of the measures were discarded as too punitive, but the ones that remain have dominated parliamentary and public debate ever since. After the bombings, Blair warned that those who do not ''share and support the values that sustain the British way of life,'' or who incite hatred against Britain and its people, ''have no place here.'' In February, he added that Islamist preachers who condone terrorism ''should not be in this country.'' It was tempting to assume that Blair was simply hardening his line, moving from Islam-Is-Peace to Love-It-or-Leave-It. But the government insists that it will do everything in consultation with the country's 1.6 million Muslims, half of whom are under 25, with the goal of winning their hearts and minds. 
 Whether that kind of outreach is compatible with a hard line depends, of course, on Muslim sentiments. Identifying and influencing those sentiments -- promoting ''moderate Muslims'' is the way the challenge is usually framed -- is trickier than it sounds. What is a moderate Muslim? It could mean someone who's not very serious about his religion or someone who's quite serious about his religion but not very political about it. What of the common formulation that terrorism is ''not Islam''? This could be a politically correct dodge or a hardheaded diagnosis that something more unholy is at work. The mainstream Islamic organizations, which unite Muslims around political grievances, are certainly a useful route into the British political system, but maybe they are whipping up those grievances in the first place. And nonbelievers are so numerous among people of immigrant background that dealing with religious leaders may be a wrongheaded strategy in the first place. Britain is working out its answers to these questions by trial and error. 
 Potential terrorists now in Britain -- those worthy of being kept under careful watch -- may number in the several hundreds, as Blair said last year, or in the thousands, as a police official told me this spring. Britain's approach -- tightening up law enforcement for all its citizens, while trying to ensure that Muslims feel represented in every step of the process -- differs from that of both the United States, which has focused on border control and electronic eavesdropping, and France, which relies on infiltration and an aggressive investigative judiciary. But its basic problem in fighting terrorism is the same one that all Western countries face. Britain is trying to clamp down on its Muslim communities and empower them at the same time. Clamp down too hard, and you alienate the people you want to win over. Empower communities indiscriminately, and you give free rein to people it is foolish to trust.

III.
 Juliet Luswa, a police constable who grew up in Uganda, and Ahmed Asania, a Bangladeshi-English special police constable, see a lot of London when they walk the beat on a Friday afternoon in Shoreditch, Spitalfields and Whitechapel. The areas are both rich and poor, teeming with immigrants and encroached on by the booming banks and brokerages of the City of London nearby. They are both yuppie dining destinations and caldrons of deprivation. 
 Asania visits a woman who runs a Middle Eastern-style hookah bar who has seen her bike, stolen the week before, being sold by a street dealer a block away. Among the worshipers leaving Friday prayers at the Jamia Masjid mosque -- which was built as a Huguenot church in the 18th century and served as a synagogue for most of the 20th -- they greet an elderly Liberal Democrat politician from somewhere in South Asia who has just won a seat on the local council, despite his unsteady English. Asania and Luswa point out the flats on Heneage Street where the most dangerous Caribbean gangs loiter and the podlike public toilets on Bethnal Green Road, which are going to be removed because heroin addicts barricade themselves inside with their works. 
 Back on Brick Lane, a musclebound, slick-haired hood, loitering in front of a fried-chicken shop across the street, starts haranguing Luswa in Urdu, which she doesn't speak. The guy has a reputation for this sort of thing. His insults are probably misogynistic. A couple of people nearby snicker. You would need to know a lot about the neighborhood to say whether they're laughing out of sympathy, contempt or intimidation. 
 ''He's in a boxing league,'' Asania mentions as the two walk away. ''He's really excellent.'' It seems to be an explanation of something. 
 The London Metropolitan Police have long had an official, national counterterrorist role and were prominent in the fight against the I.R.A. But there is not yet a consensus on what the police role ought to be in the fight against Islamist terrorism. Are they there to take the fight to the malefactors, assuming they can find them, through hard-edged tactics ranging from surveillance to raids? Or are they there to keep the peace and listen, particularly in minority neighborhoods, minimizing the discontent, insecurity and alienation on which terrorism feeds? ''Communities defeat terrorism'' has become the mantra of the police under Sir Ian Blair (no relation to the prime minister), who has been commissioner since early last year. Blair is undertaking big reforms in the police, even as adversaries inside and outside the force call on Tony Blair to fire him -- over the recent Forest Gate raid and the mistaken-identity killing in Stockwell last summer. By the end of this year, he hopes to have set up hundreds of Safer Neighborhoods teams, like the one Luswa and Asania serve on, which mix traditional bobby work with a bit of cultural translation. Commissioner Blair aspires to kill two birds with one stone -- enhancing police familiarity with the most intimate corners of dangerous neighborhoods while winning the trust of communities that often feel left out of the main current of British life. But, as in the London of Hogarth and Mayhew, the borderline between cultural variety and dangerous criminality can be a fuzzy one. 
 The British government has dropped broad hints that it is stepping up surveillance and infiltration. The percentage of intelligence resources devoted to terrorism has more than doubled in the last five years. Mosques are not off limits. ''Any cleric with radical ideas proselytizes at his peril,'' Lord Carlile told me. According to the Home Office, extremists are using mosques less and less -- and private homes more and more -- to carry out their activities. 
 But the inability of the police to spot what was happening in Leeds on the eve of the July 7 bombings has given rise to doubts over whether there is much surveillance at all -- or, if there is, whether it works. Beeston had a Muslim youth club, which Mohammad Sidique Khan helped manage; an Islamist bookstore; and a place known, even before July 7, as Al Qaeda gym, where Khan and two of his collaborators worked out. Nearly a year after the attacks, the Home Office admits that no one has yet given a clear account of what went on inside those places. 
 Aggressive information-gathering is also meeting steady community opposition. Section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000 lets the police designate areas where anyone can be stopped and searched without cause. Muslims say that Section 44 is being used to target them. It tends to be the first thing heads of Muslim organizations complain about if you bring up the war on terror. Liberty, the British equivalent of the American Civil Liberties Union, has accused the London Police of making virtually the entire city a Section 44 area. And other governmental organizations have put police antiterrorist operations under close scrutiny. After the raid in Forest Gate earlier this month, the Independent Police Complaints Commission arrived on the scene to respond to complaints that had been filed before the wider public even knew the purpose of the raid.

IV.
 How you go about gathering information on a community depends on whether you think the best intelligence is dug out by agents or volunteered by concerned citizens. This is a question on which police officers of the very highest rank are divided. Sir Ian's predecessor, Lord Stevens of Kirkwhelpington, champions traditional police skills. ''It helps when communities come out with information,'' he said in May. ''But most I.R.A. attacks were solved by fingerprints and other forensic police work. This is not just hearts and minds. You can never put all your eggs in that basket.'' 
 Sir Ian, speaking on a drizzly May afternoon in the Westminster police headquarters building called New Scotland Yard, puts himself in the camp of those who think that most useful information is volunteered. And that is no less true when dealing with Muslims than with any other religious group. ''After an atrocity of the scale of the 7th of July, it is impossible that we will not be more intrusive,'' explained Sir Ian, a ruddy and eloquent man with excitable eyes and a direct manner. ''But we can't do this to them, we can only do this with them. We start from a different place than we did with the Irish Republican Army, which had declared war against the British state. This is a far more difficult arena. We mustn't be seen to be attempting to infiltrate the entire Muslim community, 99.9 percent of which are entirely law-abiding.'' Safer Neighborhoods teams, in other words, are not spies. ''The whole deal here,'' he continued, ''is to engender the trust that one afternoon may allow one of those Islamic leaders to say to the sergeant, 'You know, I'm worried about young so-and-so.''' 
 It takes no great leap of imagination to see how sensitive policing could prevent terrorism. The garbage man who serviced 18 Alexandra Grove in Leeds, where Khan and his friends made the bombs for the July 7 attacks, said that in the days before the explosions he collected something he had never seen before on the job: rubber cartons of peroxide in large quantities. That peroxide, used to make bombs, bleached the hair of the young men, to the consternation of their Pakistani parents, and killed the flowers in the boxes outside the window. 
 But community policing carries a big risk: in reaching out to people on the streets, the police may become overly dependent on them. At a local level, it can mean police collusion with whichever interest group makes the most credible threat of disruption. A year and a half ago, Sikhs in Birmingham rioted over the play ''Behzti'' (''Dishonor''), which many found offensive. Representatives of the theater and the community sat down with the police. The theater subsequently issued a statement saying that the safety of its patrons could not be guaranteed. As John Lloyd, a director of the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism at Oxford, recalls, ''The police decided they were more interested in not having a riot than in freedom of expression.'' The play closed. When the representative organizations in question are not Sikh groups but Muslim ones, which are more numerous and more visible, the likelihood of conflict increases a lot. 

V.
 What the police are doing on the street in East London is being replicated in other walks of life. The legislative packet Tony Blair outlined last August tries to balance two things: the harder line demanded by the public after July 7 and an unwillingness -- whether out of common decency, constitutional propriety or political correctness -- to single out Muslims. Proposals that didn't manage both things -- closing radical mosques, for instance, which clearly made targets of Muslims -- have been sidelined. But ensuring that all new laws were both tough and unbiased hasn't got Blair out of the woods. On the contrary, it has produced strange, new ad hoc coalitions against him. On one side are many Tories who have shed their traditional law-and-order views and now object to seeing law-abiding Middle Englanders scrutinized as if they were potential terrorists. On the other side are the left of his own party and the even more left-leaning Liberal Democrats. 
 In controversy after controversy, it has been New Labor versus everyone else. First, the government continued its fight -- started before July 7 -- to establish a new national identity card. The rationale has always been clear: to identify people who are in the country illegally, as a tool against both terrorism and welfare fraud. But the database established along with the card was wide-ranging enough to frighten civil libertarians. ''What if you've had an abortion, or been treated for a sexually transmitted disease?'' asks David Davis, who as the Tories' shadow home secretary formulates his party's terrorism policy. ''The government says this information can't be accessed by someone without your knowing about it. If not, then why the hell is it there?'' He has a point, but since July 7, the political alignment favors security over privacy, and the card is on track to be issued in two or three years. 
 The government also sought laws that would permit it to detain terrorist suspects for 90 days without charge. There was strong resistance, particularly from ''ancient rights'' Tories, who pointed out that habeas corpus has been enshrined in British law for 700 years. The government and the police replied that the evidentiary puzzles that arise when international terrorist networks, computers and tight deadlines meet were something entirely new. One case they like to mention involved inquiries abroad concerning 10 men with 860 false identities, using 2,500 different mobile-phone SIM cards and encrypted computers on which much of the data was in a Farsi dialect. The government did not get its 90 days, but it did get 28, a victory under the circumstances.
 In a further initiative, the government sought to establish an offense of ''glorifying terrorism.'' The new crime was meant to catch the whipping-up of homicidal feeling, as when the group al-Muhajiroun publicized an event, on the second anniversary of the World Trade Center attacks, that would celebrate the 9/11 hijackers as ''the Magnificent 19.'' It was also meant to block recruitment. The home secretary at the time, Charles Clarke, suggested that saying ''Terrorists go straight to paradise when they die'' might be captured by the law. But what else might be captured? Some asked if an Irishman who celebrated the Easter Rising of 1916 would fall afoul of the statute. Not to mention Blair's own wife, the human rights lawyer Cherie Booth, who once said, with reference to the Palestinians, ''As long as young people feel that they have got no hope but to blow themselves up, you are never going to make progress.'' The law passed on an understanding of ''glorification'' that resembled Justice Potter Stewart's famed definition of hard-core pornography: as something that judges and the public would know when they saw it. The law has probably been too undermined by ridicule to serve for much. 
 The government also brought to a final vote a ''law against incitement to religious hatred'' that it had been discussing for five years. It is here that the intellectual underpinnings of the Blair approach were clearest. The law, which had been sought only by Muslims, was first demanded by the U.K. Action Committee on Islamic Affairs, a group formed to protest Salman Rushdie's portrayal of the Prophet Muhammad in ''The Satanic Verses.'' One argument for the law was that Anglicans, as worshipers in an established church, were already protected from certain insults by blasphemy laws, while Jews and Sikhs were protected from others by antiracism laws. But to the legislation's detractors, these were just post-facto rationalizations, for the law was unprecedented in its sweep. As drafted, it would have made it difficult to criticize anything that advanced itself in the name of religious belief or practice, since the law permitted prosecution of anybody who was ''reckless as to whether religious hatred would be stirred up'' by things he said or wrote.
 It was a sort of horse trading with the principles of free speech, and it drove much of the country into a fury. The Daily Mail columnist Melanie Phillips later told me: ''The term 'politically correct' does not do justice to this sinister totalitarian project. It is against not just freedom of speech but also freedom of thought.'' She added that Britons were particularly vulnerable to such incursions: ''It's very British not to want to give offense. And political Islam is the world grievance culture par excellence. It's a perfect fit.'' Rowan Atkinson, the comedian, said that the law, if passed, would make it impossible to crack jokes involving religion.
 The measure was clobbered in public opinion and was neutered by Parliament when it came to a vote in late January. David Blunkett -- the blind, hard-line, scandal-plagued home secretary from 2001 until 2004 and the architect of much of Britain's post-9/11 antiterror policy -- defended the bill to the bitter end. Many accused him of offering a sop to Muslim organizations in exchange for which they were supposed to accept the rest of the Blair antiterror program. Blunkett makes no bones about the law's having been meant mainly to protect Muslims. ''Yes, I do accept that,'' he said when we spoke in April. ''They were the primary beneficiaries because they would have been provided with a degree of certainty they didn't have before. But the debate got silly. It got distorted into whether people could make jokes about religion.'' 
 It didn't help the bill that it was scheduled for a vote in Parliament as the Danish cartoon affair was exploding across the Middle East. Gunmen raged in Gaza, and it wasn't long before protesters would hold up placards outside London's Danish Embassy calling for genocide against nonbelievers. Under such circumstances, limiting people's ability to criticize Islam looked not only cowardly but imprudent.

VI.
 Britons have a strong rhetorical attachment to liberty, as something for which a certain price in danger and disorder is worth paying. When I asked Blunkett if he accepted the idea that terrorists had enjoyed too many freedoms in London in the 1990's, he said, ''Well, in the sense that Karl Marx moved to London, Britain has always had a tradition of taking in people oppressed in their own countries.'' This is a common view. Immigrant troublemakers are likened to Marx and Engels, and any difficulties welcoming whole groups are likened to those occasioned by the arrival of Russian Jews in the 19th century or of Huguenots in the 17th. 
 This freedom has another name, for those less willing to take it in stride: ''Londonistan.'' In January, at his trial for incitement to murder and other charges, the radical cleric Abu Hamza claimed that between 1997 and 2000, members of MI5, the British domestic security service, effectively O.K.'d his frequent incitements to jihad, on one occasion telling him: ''Well, it's freedom of speech. You don't have to worry as long as we don't see blood on the streets.'' Hamza is an Egyptian-born British citizen who was maimed during the Afghan war against the Soviet Union and who later ran the Finsbury Park mosque in North London. Foreign governments (including the United States') urged for years that Hamza be arrested, most loudly after he was accused of organizing a 1998 attack in Yemen -- in which his son was an assailant -- that killed four tourists. Hamza's mosque was also linked to a plot to construct a weapon using ricin. When the police raided it in 2003, they found guns, chemical-warfare suits, stolen passports and laminating equipment. Hamza was finally arrested in 2004.
 The term ''Londonistan'' was first coined by French officials outraged at the British government's inability -- for the better part of a decade -- to extradite the Algerian Rachid Ramda, who had been charged in France with financing a series of attacks on public transport in Paris in 1995. Until Ramda was finally sent to France this past December, British courts held that he could not get a fair trial there. Other prominent jihadists -- the Syrian-born Omar Bakri Muhammed, who fled the country after July 7; the Syrian-Spanish Qaeda leader Abu-Musab al-Suri, captured by coalition forces in Pakistan last fall; and Abu Qatada, who led several European Qaeda cells and is now fighting deportation to his native Jordan -- found a safe haven in 90's London.
 The government has lately worked hard to roll up the most brazen radicals. But a series of geostrategic accidents has complicated its efforts. The leaders of Al Qaeda -- a movement created by a Saudi and chased into exile in Sudan and then Afghanistan -- have apparently wound up in or near Pakistan, one of Britain's major sources of immigration since the 50's. A significant conclusion of the government investigation of the July 7 bombings was that two of the bombers -- Mohammad Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer -- probably ''had some contact with Al Qaeda figures'' on a trip they made to Pakistan in 2004. 
 Like most modern ''diaspora'' immigrants, the Pakistani-British visit their native country with little difficulty. There were 400,000 British visitors to Pakistan in 2004. All countries with large Muslim diasporas are vulnerable to the worldwide Wahhabi radicalization fomented at mosques and cultural centers financed by Saudi Arabia's government and its private charities. But on top of that, Britain is vulnerable to radicalizing trends of South Asia -- India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. These trends risk becoming Britain's own, particularly among its socially isolated minorities.
 For many years, Britain has had a well-deserved reputation as the European country that best integrated its new arrivals. For one thing, it had rich immigrants as well as poor. Many Muslims -- not just Arabian playboys but also East African businessmen -- arrived with some capital, hired their fellow exiles and educated their families. Britain's tradition of local democratic institutions, like town and city councils, means that anywhere an immigrant population settles, a class of political leaders grows out of it. There are now several Muslims in Parliament and even in the House of Lords. The contrast with France, where 1 in 10 residents are Muslims but there are no Muslims among the 577 deputies in the National Assembly, is stark.
 But over the past quarter-century, Britain has seen a dispiriting tendency toward segregation, or resegregation. Young newcomers have not found a niche in the service economy as easily as the arrivals of 40 and 50 years ago did in the industrial one. Others, born in Britain, have cast about for identities other than the British one they were raised with. In 2001, the northern industrial towns of Oldham, Burnley and Bradford experienced several days of violent racial mayhem between white and Asian gangs. A Home Office report issued in the wake of the riots found ''separate educational arrangements, community and voluntary bodies, employment, places of worship, language, social and cultural networks,'' producing living arrangements that ''do not seem to touch at any point.'' As one Pakistani Briton told the report's authors, ''When I leave this meeting with you, I will go home and not see another white face until I come back here next week.'' Last year, Trevor Phillips, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, warned that much of Britain was ''sleepwalking its way toward segregation.'' And this segregation is especially entrenched among Muslims. The researchers Tariq Modood and Richard Berthoud have shown that only 1 percent of British Bangladeshis and Pakistanis have white partners, versus 20 percent of Afro-Carribeans. The percentage of South Asian Britons who return to Bangladesh and Pakistan to find wives or husbands is hard to measure, but some researchers place it above 50 percent, and a European demographer calls ethnic endogamy ''arrestingly high.'' 
 It is not just outward behaviors but also inward mentalities that are diverging. Through a familiar paradox, global media play a role in this divergence. London is one of six cities in which The Daily Jang, Pakistan's largest paper, is published, so the second-generation tube rider who 20 years ago would have been absorbed in the county cricket scores in his Evening Standard is now preoccupied with the conduct of India in Kashmir and with what Pakistani Muslims ought to do about it. Many South Asian immigrants get their news from Urdu television stations and, despite the language barrier, from Al Jazeera. Many more are likely to subscribe to Al Jazeera once its English-language service -- slated to have made its debut this spring, but delayed -- is up and running. 
 South Asian religion has changed, too. The Islam that most immigrants took to Britain from the Indian subcontinent was a pious traditional Sufism, marked by great reverence for the Prophet Muhammad and an elaborate system of mentorship, under the control of various pirs, or holy men. Probably the majority of Britain's 1,500 or so mosques have their roots in Sufism. This kind of Islam has not been wiped out, but it has been losing ground in South Asia and Britain alike to simpler, more fashionable trends in Sunni Islam. The Deobandi school, which was founded in Pakistan in the 19th century, has grown increasingly conservative -- and distrustful of non-Islamic cultures -- under the influence of the Saudi Wahhabis. At least since the Afghan war in the 80's, hard-line Deobandi madrasas have spread throughout Pakistan. Jamaat-i-Islami, the sectarian and highly politicized movement started by the journalist Abu A'la Maududi, has grown since the 60's and is influential in the largest Muslim group in Britain, the Muslim Council of Britain (M.C.B.). While the M.C.B. has no official government status, it does claim to speak for much of the Muslim population and is the government's interlocutor of first resort when integration is at issue. 
 Afzal Khan, an attorney who has just completed a term as lord mayor of Manchester, is a Labor member of the City Council and sits on the central working committee of the M.C.B. as well. Khan recently secured the financing that will help him realize his dream -- to build an Islamic cultural center in the city he moved to as a youth, where 125,000 Muslims now live. Since this project is about ''bridge building,'' he sees no need to apologize for having sought a great deal of the money for it from Saudi Arabia. ''My attitude is, if it's a good cause, everyone has a right to contribute,'' he told me in an empty conference room in Manchester's City Hall on his last day as mayor. ''If anyone in America wants to give a million, they have as much right as anyone else.''
 Asked to address terrorism, Khan said: ''The real issue is taking a step back and looking at the whole issue in a wider context. One side's terrorist is another side's freedom fighter. How do we bring about a just and fair world, so there are not any causes for terrorism? You have the Middle East. Then America comes into the game, and that brings in petrol. Quite frankly, it has been appalling. They didn't give a damn about the suffering of people. That's one thing that winds people up. 
 ''And another thing,'' he adds. ''There are many Muslims who have a question: How come America gets to decide who gets a nuclear weapon?''
 When you talk to many Muslim leaders in Britain, you hear them focus almost obsessively on international politics, to the exclusion of religious, social and local political issues. The charitable way of looking at this is to say that it is a function of young people's burning to change the world -- for the median age of Muslims is more than a decade younger than that of other Britons, which is pushing into the early 40's. The uncharitable way is to say that even some mainstream religious leaders are practicing what the French Islamologist Olivier Roy calls ''neofundamentalism'' -- or what the Iranian journalist Amir Taheri calls ''a religion without a theology, a secular wolf disguised as a religious lamb.'' 
 If the ''religion'' causing problems is not really about religious things at all, then the risk of talking at cross-purposes is high. The ''national'' government wants to talk about local integration and facilities and role models, while ''local'' representatives want to talk about the West Bank. Sir Ian Blair, the police commissioner, has suggested broadening the interchange with Muslims following what he calls a ''traffic light'' system. The government will obviously speak to community leaders (green), and it obviously won't speak to terrorists (red), but it will speak to certain ''amber'' (yellow) interlocutors whom Americans might be reluctant to touch. Among those who fit in the amber category might be Yusuf Qaradawi, the telemufti of Qatar, who has issued several fatwas in support of suicide bombing. Lecturing in the United States recently, Commissioner Blair granted that Qaradawi ''has views on the Palestinian intifada that probably would not be very acceptable either here or in the U.K.,'' but also said that he was impressed that ''he can command an audience of 50,000 young people at the drop of a hat.'' 
 Sir Ian once said that ''there is nothing wrong with being a fundamentalist Muslim, any more than there is anything wrong with being a fundamentalist Christian.'' He was assailed in the press, but he had a point. What if terrorism does not come from a certain attitude toward religion but from a certain attitude toward politics? Pushing Muslim identity in a more ''fundamentalist'' direction could mean more contemplation of God and less contemplation of grievance. Pushing Muslim identity in a more ''mainstream'' direction could mean encouraging grandstanding and political ultimatums. 
 The Muslim Council of Britain now boycotts Holocaust Memorial Day every January, on the grounds that it focuses too exclusively on the genocide committed against the Jews. In response, Asim Siddiqui, the young leader of a London-based Muslim group called City Circle, organized a separate Holocaust memorial event. City Circle declares itself ''nonaligned to any overseas or established doctrinal organization.'' Siddiqui is clearly a courageous and independent man. Yet the M.C.B. still gets more invitations to governmental meetings and is accepted as the logical outlet for the community's demands after, say, an antiterrorist raid. It is a good example of how the ''traffic light'' strategy can fail. Its incentives drive community representatives toward radicalism. Strident political voices are not just admitted to conversation -- they are the preferred voices, because they are seen as more ''authentic.'' If the government's top priority is finding people with the street credibility to dissuade potential terrorists, then the ideal Muslim interlocutor is someone who shares the terrorists' goals while publicly condemning their means. Standing up for Holocaust victims and for fellowship among Britain's peoples is not much of a credential.

VII.
 How much sympathy do most Muslims have for radical extremists? ''Abu Hamza is in Belmarsh prison,'' says the Palestinian journalist Abdel Bari Atwan. ''Have you seen a demonstration for his release? A petition protesting his treatment?'' 
 Atwan edits Al Quds al Arabi, an international Arabic-language daily. Its offices are upstairs from a housing authority in Hammersmith, where the redeveloped part of King Street peters out into hairdressers and used-clothing shops. Through a security-locked front door you enter a mini-newsroom of dusty carpets and a half-dozen old and mismatched computers. The walls are hung with Palestinian posters, and Arabic TV runs in the corner. Atwan's premises are modest, and his paper has a low profile locally. But it has a reputation throughout the Arab world for reporting the news without fear or favor. Atwan interviewed Osama bin Laden at his hideout in Afghanistan in 1996 and recently wrote an authoritative history of his movement. When Al Qaeda claimed responsibility for the March 2004 Madrid bombings, it was to Atwan that the claim was faxed. 
 The problem, as Atwan sees it, is that the British and the Americans have always underestimated the intelligence and logic of Al Qaeda: ''For the British, it's a terrorist organization that did Sept. 11 and is linked to July 7, that kills indiscriminately. But they never try to understand what's behind it. They never look at the roots of the problem. It's a terrorist organization, yes! But why?'' Atwan's answer is that the United States and its allies pursue a foreign policy that includes military occupation -- in Israel, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. Until that changes, he says, ''the current escalation of suicide attacks is unlikely to abate.''
 Taji Mustafa, a charismatic and confrontational spokesman for the group Hizb ut-Tahrir, would agree. Hizb ut-Tahrir, like Al Qaeda, favors the re-establishment of the caliphate, the central Muslim authority disbanded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in 1924. Arguing that its doctrines can serve as a ''conveyor belt'' to terrorism, the British government has discussed banning the group, whose activities have already been banned in Germany. ''Ourselves, the vast majority unequivocally condemn terrorism,'' said Mustafa, who is the son of Nigerian parents, over a cup of tea in a hotel near Regent's Park. ''None of us justifies targeting civilians in London or Madrid.'' Nonviolence is the official Hizb ut-Tahrir position, although when it comes to Israel, Mustafa (in his conversation) and the organization (in its literature) are much less direct in their disavowal of violence. 
 Mustafa says that in talking up a ban on Hizb ut-Tahrir, the Blair government is expanding the definition of terrorism to cover nonterrorists. ''They're creating a thought crime,'' Mustafa said. ''If they ban Hizb ut-Tahrir, is it going to stop me as an individual from arguing for a caliphate?'' But worse, he says that the government is dodging a legitimate argument over its foreign policy and misrepresenting the wishes of British Muslims. Mustafa was particularly angered at a speech Blair gave nine days after the bombings last summer, in which he described the ''evil ideology'' of terrorists in a way that made it sound a lot like Hizb ut-Tahrir's ideology. ''They demand the elimination of Israel,'' Blair said, ''the withdrawal of all Westerners from Muslim countries. . .the establishment of effectively Taliban states and Shariah law in the Arab world en route to one caliphate of all Muslim nations. We don't have to wonder what type of country those states would be.'' 
 ''Why didn't he take our views on?'' asked an indignant Mustafa. ''My challenge is, Go to Whitechapel and ask: Do you question the state of Israel? Do you believe in Shariah law?''
 Shariah does not quite command majority support among British Muslims. A poll in February in The Daily Telegraph showed that 40 percent of British Muslims favor the establishment of Islamic law -- but only piecemeal, and under certain circumstances. Even in heavily Muslim neighborhoods, there is no great public clamor to ban alcohol -- usually a telltale sign of pro-Shariah agitation. And Britain's relaxed laws regarding religious dress -- more akin to the American model than to the French -- have allowed it to avoid the controversies over the Muslim headscarf that have roiled the rest of Europe. But Mustafa's other claim -- that the vast majority of citizens in heavily Muslim Whitechapel sympathize viscerally and overwhelmingly with the radical position on Israel and, more generally, on foreign policy -- must be faced squarely. For Mustafa is unquestionably correct. 
 People often talk about the ''diversity'' of the British Muslim population. This is fair if the dimension you are concerned about is skin color or per capita income or attitudes on the relative merits of Hanafi and Hanbali jurisprudence. But if the dimension is Western foreign policy, then there is really very little diversity at all. A Draft Report on Young Muslims and Extremism leaked from the Home Office in 2004 found that a main source of anger among youth was ''a perception of 'double standards' in British foreign policy, where democracy is preached but oppression of the 'Ummah' (the one nation of believers) is practiced or tolerated, e.g. in Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan, Kashmir, Chechnya.'' By overwhelming numbers, Muslims oppose all intervention in the Arab and Muslim world. Somewhere between 64 and 80 percent, depending on the poll you consult, opposed the recent Afghan war. ''Yes, we have a responsibility to encourage our children against extremism,'' I was told by Abdirahman Warsame, a Somali who was chosen by the Muslim Association of Britain to run the Finsbury Park mosque after Abu Hamza, ''but government has the responsibility to review its policy.'' 
 Foreign policy may be the only dimension on which moderates and radicals agree. But it happens to be the dimension the terrorists cite when they blow up buses. That harmony of worldview is a dire problem for Britain in general and Muslims in particular -- no matter how narrow the terrain on which it is built. It creates a climate in which a sympathetic hearing is guaranteed for any claim that the real cause of terrorism is Iraq or Israel or America's love of big oil. (And if you are hunting terrorists by, say, tapping phones, it makes terrorists impossible to identify solely through the politics they profess.) 
 In this light, Britain's participation in the war in Iraq opened a can of worms. A draft of a top-secret Joint Intelligence Committee report, leaked to The Observer this spring, found that ''Iraq is likely to be an important motivating factor for some time to come in the radicalization of British Muslims and for those extremists who view attacks against the U.K. as legitimate.'' John Denham, a Labor M.P. who resigned from the government over the Iraq invasion, says that such viewpoints are common. ''Iraq is one of the factors that feed the view that the government is casual to the point of unconcern about lives of Muslims,'' he told me in the cafeteria in Portcullis House, across the street from Parliament. ''By providing a focal point for Muslim anger, it was likely to bring a rise in world terrorism.'' 
 Whether Iraq is a ''cause'' of terror or a mere pretext is a difficult question. Radical jihadists have threatened and attacked countries that opted out of the Iraq conflict. And if Iraq ''causes'' someone to become a suicide bomber, it is almost certainly not in the way Western liberals understand political causation. The terrorist may already hold jihadist views. He may be whipped into bloodlust by images on TV or the Internet. He may regard the invasion of Iraq as an incursion upon the prerogatives of the Ummah -- but the source of his anger is unlikely to be any supposed violation of international law. In the end, though, it may not matter if everyone means something different by ''Iraq.'' A shared opposition to the war tightens the identification between radical and nonradical Muslims, and between both those groups and some members of the non-Muslim Western left, and this muddies the terms with which the battle of ideas around terrorism is fought. 
 There is another problem. If the jihadists from all over the world who have gone to fight in Iraq follow the example of their Afghan forebears and carry on the jihad when they return home, then Britain is going to be very hard hit. Earlier this month, The Sunday Times reported that there is a ''British brigade'' of 150 radicals fighting coalition forces in Iraq. Shortly before the death of Abu-Musab al-Zarqawi in a U.S. bombing raid earlier this month, his Web site was running English-language recruitment messages reading, ''They are fighting; you should be too.''
 A wave of arrests in the past few weeks has made clear how hard it is to separate the fight at home and the fight abroad. In the Yorkshire town of Dewsbury, not far from Beeston, the teenage grandson of a prominent British Muslim scholar was arrested for links to the 17-man bombing conspiracy in Ontario. The two brothers mistakenly arrested in Forest Gate appeared to have a half-brother involved in February's protest in front of the Danish Embassy after the cartoon controversy. Following the raid, Yvonne Ridley, a journalist who was seized by the Taliban in 2001, converted to Islam two years later and is now a leader of the anti-Iraq war Respect Party, called on Muslims to stop cooperating with the police. Muhammed Abdul Bari, the new leader of the Muslim Council of Britain, spoke of community anger and warned: ''Angry people can do anything. Angry people can even feel that they should take the law into their own hands, so anger has to be directed into positive action.'' 

VIII.
 On a breezy evening in May, Denis MacShane, the Labor M.P. from the northern coal-and-steel town of Rotherham, sat on the parliamentary terrace overlooking the Thames, eating a dinner of bangers and mash that he had carried out on a tray from the commons cafeteria. Other members were drinking their pints and smoking their cigarettes. As the child of a Polish immigrant, MacShane expects newcomers to claim their voices in the British conversation quickly. In 2003, he came under fire from party leaders for calling on moderate Muslims to speak up more loudly against terror. After July 7, he organized Muslim and non-Muslim leaders in Rotherham to take out a newspaper ad condemning the bombings. MacShane has always been enamored of the freedom-fighting side of his country and the cold warriors in his party -- but he is realistic about the timetable of the current conflict. It is almost as if he expects to win the war on terror with the same patience that enables his fellow countrymen to stand in lines. ''You can't stop individuals doing violence,'' he told me. ''You need to wear down acceptance and approval. Asking Muslims to repudiate all these Muslim causes is like inviting the Galway peasant of the 1940's to support Churchill.'' It's tough to tell if he's stressing the nonnegotiability of such a demand or the recalcitrance with which it is likely to be met. 
 MacShane is basically counseling patience, as many in Britain's government do. A month before the July 7 attacks, Britain's Joint Intelligence Committee made the judgment that ''there would probably be a successful attack of some sort in the U.K. in the next five years.'' Today, British authorities are not much more confident of thwarting all plots, so they have erected a line of defense that is absorptive, not pre-emptive. It rests on harmony between social groups and on the country's ability to suffer atrocities from time to time, as it did during the heyday of the I.R.A., without escalating unrest or oppression, or the rise of extremist parties. Britain is now betting that the country will retain its historically bottomless reserves of sang-froid in the face of a threat that is orders of magnitude more dangerous than the threat of the I.R.A.; that there is something in the makeup of Britons that makes them more stoical than, say, Americans in New York about bombs going off; that the quiet tenor of the British fight against Islamist terrorism thus far is a sign of good manners and forbearance, not of abject fright or sneaking sympathy; and that Britain in the age of the Diana funeral is the same country it was during the blitz. 
 It is a risky bet.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SAFER NEIGHBORHOODS? To Sir Ian Blair, top left, London's police commissioner, much of the answer to terrorism lies in developing a rapport between the police and residents of heavily Muslim communities like Brick Lane, Whitechapel and Forest Gate, bottom left, where in June, the police raided a row house but found nothing. Abdel Bari Atwan, bottom right, editor of an Arabic daily headquartered in Hammersmith, says that as long as the U.S. and its allies occupy other countries, ''the current escalation of suicide attacks is unlikely to abate.'' (Photographs By Sarah Caron For The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); REFUGEES (69%); WAR ON TERROR (67%); SUICIDE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (97%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



541 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: The Metaphor of America's Colleges

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Our World Cup Edge,'' by David Brooks (column, June 22):
 While I certainly take no issue with touting academics over sports, I wonder whether Mr. Brooks wore rose-colored glasses to view the ''dynamic'' American university system.
Yes, there are great universities in this country (perhaps indeed 8 of the top 10 in the world), but the system is far from superior in providing a ''textbook lesson in how to and how not to use government.'' 
 Although some of the European governments' practices may have had a negative impact, I can't believe that this country's university system wouldn't be better served by a government that provided far more encouragement and incentives, namely a tuition tax credit and more financing, rather than cuts, for student loans.

Jill Hetzron
New York, June 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right about the crowded and underfinanced government-controlled universities in Europe. 
 What he doesn't discuss, however, is the exorbitant cost of a basic undergraduate degree in the United States. That degree certainly no longer guarantees a solid upper-middle-class career path, but it does require many graduates to pay off huge student loans for years, if not decades, after they leave college. 
 It should also be noted that unlike the college-educated players of the United States' national soccer team, the European superstars Zinedine Zidane, David Beckham and Luis Figo will most likely not have to worry about their financial future once they retire from the sport in their mid-30's.

Josef Haas
Mount Kisco, N.Y., June 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 I can only hope that David Brooks will be able to write a similar tribute to the excellence of American universities 20 years from now, as our federal government continues to cut financing for education, discourages scientific research into areas that have negative implications for religion, enacts immigration policies that hinder the recruitment of quality foreign students, and feeds our universities with students well trained in the science of intelligent design.

William H. Nathan
Houston, June 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 David Brooks asserts that ''8 out of the top 10 universities'' in the world are American, and I would concur with that estimate. 
 I don't know which eight he has in mind, but any list of top colleges would undoubtedly include some of the Ivy League schools plus great state universities like the University of California at Berkeley. 
 What Mr. Brooks doesn't acknowledge is that the administration and the faculty of these outstanding schools are so often dominated by political liberals. This liberal presence in teaching is not limited to the English and philosophy departments, but extends to other faculties, like mathematics and engineering, as well. 
 One should keep this leftist tilt in mind when some neocon complains about the liberal bias in higher education. The liberal minds are there, but the result -- the great American university system -- should give these critics pause. 

A. David Wunsch
Lowell, Mass., June 22, 2006

The writer is a professor emeritus of electrical and computer engineering, University of Massachusetts Lowell.

To the Editor:
 David Brooks says that higher education is a textbook lesson in government: in America, the state supports local autonomy, while in Europe, the state tries to equalize and thus stultifies initiative. 
 But Mr. Brooks hasn't learned the whole lesson. He should ask Americans of modest means whether they prefer an America where they don't have access to the best because they can't afford it. 
 Many of my students struggle to pay the high tuition at a public university and could not afford the still higher tuition at a private one. They are not amused when I tell them that their German counterparts pay nothing.
 As Mr. Brooks says, the lesson is applicable to the health care system as well: those who can pay the most can command the best. 

James R. Maxeiner
Bronxville, N.Y., June 22, 2006

The writer is the associate director of the Center for International and Comparative Law, University of Baltimore School of Law.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Maggie Suisman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); SOCCER (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); ENGINEERING (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (61%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); IMMIGRATION (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); POLITICS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Colleges and Universities; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Culture; Tuition; Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (79%) David Brooks; Jill Hetzron; Josef Haas; William H Nathan; A David Wunsch; James R Maxeiner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



542 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: In Shirley Chisholm's Brooklyn, Rancor Over White Candidacy

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
For the last four decades, the predominantly black population of central Brooklyn has been represented in Washington by one of its own, a tradition that dates to the 1968 victory of Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman elected to Congress.
 But now, in a district whose boundaries were drawn to strengthen black voting power, residents are locked in a wrenching, racially charged debate over a white politician's campaign for Congress.
The candidacy of that politician, David Yassky -- who has built a reputation as an accomplished, independent-minded councilman -- has led to angry accusations of racial carpetbagging. It has also spawned calls by black politicians that he abandon the contest and that Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer, Mr. Yassky's mentor, take sides in the fight.
 But perhaps more important, the hostilities say much about the evolving nature of black neighborhoods like Crown Heights and Brownsville and the profound repercussions on politics. 
 As the forces of immigration and gentrification have altered the demographics of these communities, ethnic and racial blocs that once promoted their own candidates have fractured, with voters now choosing among politicians of various backgrounds.
 Nowhere is the phenomenon more stark than in the contest for the 11th Congressional District, where American- and Caribbean-born blacks vie for power and a steady influx of whites has heightened the worry that blacks will be displaced, from their neighborhoods and from the political hierarchy. It is a fear that Mr. Yassky's candidacy has intensified, so much so that a group of black and Hispanic politicians are discussing ways to make sure he loses.
 At the center of it all is Mr. Yassky, 42, a mild-mannered former law professor who, colleagues say, is a true believer in the power of government to improve lives. After volunteering on political campaigns over summers during high school, he began working for the Koch administration while in college and eventually became chief counsel to the House Subcommittee on Crime, working under Mr. Schumer.
 As a Congressional aide for six years, he said, he ''became completely convinced that you could do things that were worth doing,'' like the gun control laws and other public safety measures he helped enact. 
 A Brooklyn Heights resident who was elected to the City Council in 2001, Mr. Yassky emerged as a key voice in pushing the Bloomberg administration to include subsidized housing in the gigantic waterfront rezoning in Williamsburg and Greenpoint and banning soda and candy in vending machines in public schools.
 So when Mr. Yassky heard that Representative Major R. Owens was retiring this year after serving for more than two decades, he did some soul-searching before he decided to run. ''A big question for myself,'' he said, ''was, 'Do I think this is the right thing to do, do I think I can represent the whole district, and represent Brownsville as effectively as I can represent Park Slope?' ''
 In a decision his detractors have cast as opportunism, he concluded that he could, arguing that the aim of voting rights legislation was, at root, to ensure that minority interests were adequately represented. ''Does that mean that the person who represents that district has to be African-American himself or herself?'' he said, going back through the thought process he used in deciding to run. ''And I guess the answer is no.''
 But his candidacy has led to the resurfacing of racial tensions in an area still scarred by the Crown Heights violence that pitted blacks against Hasidic Jews in 1991. Mr. Yassky's critics say that he is calculating that the other candidates will splinter the black vote, allowing him to win by capturing whites, who make up 21.4 percent of the district, according to the 2004 Almanac of American Politics, which used 2000 census figures. Blacks make up 58.5 percent.
 The district had fewer whites in the 1990's, before it was redrawn, expanding into Cobble Hill, Brooklyn Heights and more of Park Slope. The 1994 almanac listed its population as 74 percent black and 16 percent white.
 The contest among Mr. Yassky's three black opponents is complex on its own, and all have rejected demands that they pull out of the race to coalesce around a black candidate.
 City Councilwoman Yvette D. Clarke, a popular incumbent who already represents a critical part of the district, challenged Representative Owens in a three-way primary two years ago and came in second. Mr. Owens's son, Chris Owens, a former community school board member, is seeking to succeed his father.
 And State Senator Carl Andrews is working to distance himself from the Democratic organization, where he was close to Clarence Norman Jr., the former Brooklyn Democratic leader who was convicted on corruption charges last year.
 Mr. Andrews is expected to receive formal endorsements today from former Mayor David N. Dinkins, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. and State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer.
 The Rev. Al Sharpton has been among those working to ensure that a black is elected from the district, which was drawn in the 1960's to enhance minority representation. He said he had met with Mr. Yassky and argued against his candidacy. ''Given our underrepresentation in terms of this state in terms of blacks we can't afford not to try and keep a voter-rights seats in the hands of who it was designed for,'' Mr. Sharpton said.
 He added: ''The issue is, why would you think there's not a black as qualified and who could do just as good a job in Washington? So the inference is when someone moves into our district, they're telling us, 'Well, ain't nobody in the district who can do what I do.' ''
 Mr. Yassky says the district needs a lawmaker who will deliver on issues like providing jobs, access to health insurance and housing. ''It's a district that needs Congress to pay attention and care and do what it's supposed to do. And I just felt increasingly strongly that I could do something.'' 
 But critics see him as simply an ambitious politician who faces term limits in 2009 and is looking for a more prominent stage. 
 Last year, Mr. Yassky had planned to run for Brooklyn district attorney but abandoned the effort. Mr. Yassky only recently moved into the Congressional district -- he had lived three blocks outside it -- as he began to campaign in earnest.
 Of his opponents, only Mr. Owens would go after Mr. Yassky directly yesterday, with Ms. Clarke and Mr. Andrews sidestepping or downplaying the issue of race.
 ''He went from a four-way race for district attorney in which he was one of three white candidates, where he decided he couldn't win, to a four-way race for Congress in which he is the only white candidate,'' Mr. Owens said. ''I think it's a very calculated move on his part.''
 Critics have also said that Mr. Yassky is out of touch with the black population, noting that many of his supporters hail from wealthy, predominantly white areas like Park Slope and Brooklyn Heights or from gentrifying neighborhoods like Victorian Flatbush. 
 But at the same time, Mr. Yassky has attracted support from some blacks in the district, including some who said they found him appealing when he spoke at their churches. Others, like supporters active in the Boerum Hill housing projects that he currently represents, say he has been a vigorous advocate.
 ''We've had this seat for many years and nothing's been done with it,'' said Charlene Nimmons, who is with the Wyckoff Gardens Tenant Association. Referring to Mr. Yassky, Ms. Nimmons, who is black, said, ''I know what he's done, and I can see him continuing that.''
 Indeed, there are signs that many voters are focused on the issues that affect their daily lives, and not the race of a candidate. 
 ''I'm looking for someone who can deal with economic issues, immigration issues and basically decrease crime -- we need to deal with the gun problem,'' said Neikisha Charles, 19, a immigrant from Grenada who was shopping at a supermarket in Brownsville where Mr. Yassky was campaigning one Saturday. She said that she had not yet chosen a candidate, but that she had heard Mr. Yassky speak at her church and liked what he had to say.
 ''Race is a social construct as I see it, so it really doesn't matter as long as he deals with what needs to be done,'' she said.
 But as Mr. Yassky works to spread his message about the need to promote a more aggressive Democratic agenda in Washington, race is clearly weighing on the minds of some voters. As he campaigned that same Saturday in Ditmas Park, a part of Flatbush where home values have been rapidly rising, some nonblack voters expressed qualms about his candidacy. One white couple told Mr. Yassky that they planned to vote for Chris Owens. And at a greenmarket, Joe Wong, 29, an Asian-American, said that he, too, was leaning toward Mr. Owens because he opposed the Atlantic Yards development and because he had reservations about voting for a nonblack candidate.
 ''I'm not totally sold on that, but it's just the fact that it was created as a majority-minority district and the fact that blacks are underrepresented in the Congress as it stands,'' Mr. Wong said, adding that he did not support efforts to push Mr. Yassky out of the race.
 ''I'm not saying he wouldn't do a good job representing the district and the minorities that are in the district,'' he said, ''it's just I haven't made up my mind whether or not that's a good enough reason for me to vote for someone or not.''
 For his part, Mr. Yassky remains philosophical and determined.
 ''More African-Americans in Congress rather than fewer is a good thing, but you also want to have a district, including, certainly, a district that's majority African-American represented really effectively in Congress,'' he said. ''The voters may decide they don't want to hire me, but I absolutely intend to give them that choice.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Councilman David Yassky, left center, is running for Congress. One of his rivals, Councilwoman Yvette D. Clarke, above, already represents a critical part of the district. (Photos by Michael Brown for The New York Times)
A third candidate, State Senator Carl Andrews, above, campaigning this month at Grand Army Plaza. The fourth contender, Chris Owens, is the son of the person vacating the seat. (Photo by Ramin Talaie for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 28)Map of Brooklyn highlighting the 11th Congressional District: The black majority in the district has shrunk since the 1990's. pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHNICITY (75%); ZONING (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GUN CONTROL (63%); PUBLIC HOUSING (61%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (60%); CITIES (50%) Blacks; Minorities (US); Election Issues

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); YVETTE CLARKE (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%) Diane Cardwell; David Yassky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (69%) New York State; Brooklyn (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



543 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Wary of U.S., Syria and Iran Strengthen Ties

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Katherine Zoepf contributed reporting from Damascus, Syria, for this article.

DATELINE: SAYEDA ZEINAB, Syria, June 24 

 BODY:
For a long time, the top-selling poster in Hassan al-Sheikh's gift shop here showed President Bashar al-Assad of Syria seated beside the leader of Hezbollah in Lebanon. A few weeks ago a slightly different poster overtook it, this one with the Syrian president, the Hezbollah leader and Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
 Mr. Sheikh's shop is on a bustling street in Sayeda Zeinab beside the entrance to a Shiite shrine that shares a name with the town, and both have been packed with Iranian pilgrims, many more than in years past.
 Those changes illustrate what may well be a worrying phenomenon for Washington as it seeks to contain Iran and isolate Syria: the two governments, and their people, are tightening relations on several fronts as power in the region shifts away from the once dominant Sunni to Shiites, led by Iran. 
 This is, in part, the result of the American installation of a Shiite-dominated government in Iraq after the overthrow of Saddam Hussein and his Sunni-led government. But it is also spurred by the growing belief in Arab capitals that the Bush administration may soon negotiate a deal with Tehran over Iraq and nuclear weapons. 
 Arab governments once hostile to Iran have begun to soften their public posture after decades of animosity toward Tehran. President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt met Iran's national security chief, Ali Larijani, in Cairo recently, and Saudi Arabia's foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, visited Tehran this month and declared the two nations to be good friends. In addition, Iranian officials recently sent messages of friendship to every Persian Gulf state.
 Amid all that activity, Syria has managed to inflate its power in the region by playing a subtle double game and setting itself up as a possible go-between.
 On one hand, it is offering Iran the chance to develop a strong and unified crescent of influence extending from Syria to the Palestinian territories, now led by Hamas, a Syrian and Iranian ally. On the other, Syria, which has a secular-oriented government but is made up of different religious sects and ethnic groups, has held itself out as an important player in the Sunni effort to limit the spread of Shiite influence. That has helped it with Arab countries and has attracted investment from the around the gulf, diplomats and political analysts in Syria said.
 ''Syria will work to use its role as a pivotal point to get the most from both the Arabs and Iranians,'' said Ayman Abdel Nour, a political analyst and Baath Party member who works for more political freedoms.
 Syria's strategy has helped it win crucial support at a time when it is cut off from the United States and Europe. But political analysts and government officials say it is also a risky strategy, one that could weaken Syria if Iran cuts a deal with the West over its nuclear program -- and abandons its ally in Damascus. 
 ''Syrian officials are worried about America making a deal with Iran,'' said Marwan Kabalan, a political science professor at Damascus University. ''Syrians fear that Iranians will use them as a card to buy something from America.''
 At the same time, Iran's efforts to bolster Shiism in parts of Syria come as the government here is confronted by the rise of radical Islamic ideas that many say are being exported from the gulf region. Though relations with Iran are widely perceived as a political alliance rather than a religious one, the confluence of the two forces could aggravate sectarian rivalries. Tensions among Syria's many religious and ethic groups burn so hot beneath the surface of the society that newspapers are forbidden from identifying sects even when reporting on Iraq.
 Syria and Iran began establishing closer ties decades ago, but the real strides have been recent.
 Syria has signed expanded military and economic agreements with Tehran covering everything from telecommunications projects to higher education. Syria will buy missiles from Iran. Iran will build cement and car plants in Syria. 
 At the same time, Arab nations that have been cool to Syria are now reaching out to it. Syria received the king of Bahrain this month, he met Thursday with Mr. Mubarak, and this week President Assad held a telephone conference with King Abdullah II of Jordan. Relations between Amman and Damascus became strained when Jordanian officials accused Syria of allowing Hamas to smuggle weapons across Syrian territory and into Jordan -- charges Syria has denied.
 ''Iran injected Syria with a lot of confidence: stand up, show defiance,'' said Sami Moubayed, a political analyst and writer in Damascus. ''Iran is giving them advice. This is certain.''
 European diplomats here said that Syria's turn away from the West -- and toward Iran and other Eastern countries -- had also been part of a domestic power struggle between two forces within the government. Those who favored at least trying to keep a foot in the door with Europe have been silenced, and those seeking to shift Syria toward the East have been empowered, said the diplomats who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid aggravating tensions between their governments and Damascus.
 When Hafez al-Assad, the former Syrian president, forged ties with Iran decades ago, his government had the upper hand. Iran had recently gone through a revolution that ousted the shah and installed a religious system that was only just finding its footing. Then Saddam Hussein's military invaded, and Iran was grateful that with Syria's support, Mr. Hussein was unable to define his war as a battle of Arabs versus Persians, Shiites versus Sunnis. 
 While Syria offered Iran strategic support, Iran repaid Syria with economic aid like cheap oil. At the same time, the two shared an interest in building up Hezbollah, the militia group considered a terrorist organization by the United States and a resistance force by the Lebanese.
 Today the relationship is fundamentally different, with Iran holding the dominant position as its strength in the region, and the world, is elevated and Syria's is compromised. ''Iran in the last few years became stronger and Syria became weaker,'' said Dr. Samir al-Taqi, a health adviser to the Syrian government and the director of a research institute focused on international affairs. ''Now everyone is asking what Iran will do if it cuts a deal with America.''
 Iran's ambassador to Syria, Muhammad Hassan Akhtari, who served as chief of staff for Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, for seven years, said in an interview that Syrians had been assured that Iran would not accept any compromise with the West if it was ''against the interest of Syria.'' 
 He also said that over the past 27 years, since the earliest days of the revolution, Iran had the opportunity to make a deal and ''did not sell out its friends.''
 ''Now that Iran is stronger,'' he added, ''why would it sell out its friends, and sell out Syria?''
 The risks also involve domestic affairs as Syria struggles against an increase in religious identification, particularly among Sunnis, and signs that the most radical interpretations of Islam have begun to spread in Syria.
 That fight goes back to Hafez al-Assad's reign, when he sent the army to wipe out the city of Hama, where the Muslim Brotherhood had started an uprising. Recently, Bashar al-Assad's government reported killing a small group of Islamic terrorists planning to attack a government building in the center of Damascus.
 All of this could present a challenge for a government controlled by a religious minority -- the Alawites -- and a political party that identifies itself as secular, the Baath Party.
 ''Our situation is so difficult now in the Islamic street,'' said Muhammad Habash, a Syrian lawmaker and the director of the liberal-leaning Islamic Studies Center in Damascus. ''Foreign influences, by which I mean mainly Saudi influences, or Wahhabi influences, are creating dangerous discussions in this region.''
 Those forces promote the idea that Shiites are not proper Muslims -- and in some cases declare them to be apostates.
 For the moment, though, many people say that Iran's opposition to the West and its long ties to Syria generally have broad support here.
 ''The three are practically the only ones challenging the United States,'' said the shopkeeper selling posters of Mr. Ahmadinejad, Mr. Assad and the leader of Hezbollah, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah. ''That's why we put them in a picture together. They are the only ones who say no.''
 But the influx of religious pilgrims in Syria -- some estimates exceed a million a year -- and the Iranian investment in Shiite shrines in the north, could increase tensions. 
 Still, the prospect of inflaming sectarian tensions is, for now, a distant threat compared with the immediate benefits of Syria's Iran policy.
 ''At the beginning of his term, the president tried to make contacts with the Western world,'' said Intisar Junis, a Syrian television anchor. ''I can't imagine that he is a real friend to Iran, but now he has no choice. Europe and the U.S. forced his choice; they closed all the other doors to him.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A poster in Syria, with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, left, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and Hassan Nasrallah of Hezbollah. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HAMAS (77%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (76%); RELIGION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (93%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (88%); HASSAN NASRALLAH (78%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); ALI LARIJANI (56%) Michael Slackman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (76%) INDIAN OCEAN (68%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (95%); IRAQ (93%); EGYPT (92%); LEBANON (92%); IRAN (90%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Iran; Syria; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006



544 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words

 BODY:

HIGHER INTEREST? -- Wall Street's attention is focused on the Federal Open Market Committee, which is expected to raise the benchmark short-term interest rate, the federal funds rate, for the 17th consecutive time, to 5.25 percent. (Thursday.) 


TRADE TALKS -- Trade ministers are scheduled to meet in Geneva to try to revive stalled negotiations for a global trade agreement, known as the Doha Development Round. (Wednesday through Saturday.)

STRIKE THREAT -- More than 10,000 employees of Asda, the British subsidiary of Wal-Mart Stores, are threatening to start a five-day strike over wages and working conditions. (Saturday.)

HOUSING OUTLOOK -- A picture of the housing industry will develop this week, starting with a report for new-home sales in May. (Monday.) The report for sales of existing homes will follow. (Tuesday.)

OTHER REPORTS -- The Conference Board is scheduled to issue its report on consumer confidence for June. (Tuesday.) The final reading for the gross domestic product in the first quarter will also be released. (Thursday.) And rounding out the week are reports for personal income and personal spending in May, and the University of Michigan's final report on consumer sentiment for June. (Friday.)

EARNINGS -- A spate of companies are scheduled to announce quarterly profit reports this week, including Walgreen (Monday), Nike, above, (Tuesday), 3Com and ConAgra (Wednesday), and General Mills, Monsanto and Palm (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STRIKES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); MONSANTO CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); MON (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (54%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (54%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (54%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (69%) SWITZERLAND (72%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



545 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: As Online Ads Grow, Eyeballs are Valuable Again on the Web

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
THE great eyeball chase is back in full swing. And it does not matter that the eyeballs may not be buying anything. With online advertising revenues growing quickly, new information-rich sites of all kinds are mushrooming across the Web. 
 Sites devoted to big-ticket purchases -- particularly cars, real estate and travel -- are feverishly refining features and marketing strategies in an effort to attract the growing number of consumers searching the Web for buying advice. Unlike sites like Amazon.com, they do not actually sell any products, but they make a good living selling ads to deep-pocketed companies that do.
And a growing lineup of deep-pocketed advertisers are looking for those consumers.
 ''It's a good time to be a publisher online,'' said Carrie A. Johnson, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''There's a ridiculous thirst for advertising'' on the Internet, she said. Online merchants paid 33 percent more for advertising last year than the year before, Ms. Johnson said, with costs expected to rise further. 
 For high-margin, big-ticket items, the competition for eyeballs is even more intense. Take Internet Brands, perhaps best known as the parent company of CarsDirect.com, which connects prospective car buyers with dealers. The privately held company, which publishes 14 Web sites focused on real estate (realestateabc.com), travel (vacationhomes.com), and cars (auto.com), has expanded rapidly over the last two years by creating or buying sites in each category.
 According to Robert N. Brisco, the company's chief executive, the new sites have become more specific and niche-oriented as the competition for advertising has increased. For instance, some recent additions to its stable include GreenHybrid.com, a buyer's guide to hybrid cars, and WikiTravel.org, a travel site with advice generated by consumers. 
 ''Google and Yahoo are getting better at these markets, so they're a competitor too, but there's a level of depth to these categories that lends itself to even more of a vertical approach,'' Mr. Brisco said, using industry vernacular for content devoted to a particular category.
 ''These big-ticket categories represent a large share of advertising on the Internet, including a big portion of the revenue base of Google and Yahoo, so it represents a large opportunity for us,'' Mr. Brisco added.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Brisco said the sites with the longest tenure in his roster, like CarsDirect, which made its debut in 1999, had gotten much smarter about their businesses. For example, he said the company knew from years of selling data that black cars sold well near the Southern California coast, but were ''extremely difficult'' to sell inland. CarsDirect will share its specific data with dealers who advertise on the site so they may swap inventory and realize better advertising results.
 While that alone is interesting to marketers, traffic is the real magnet. Travel sites have experienced a slightly higher rate of growth than the Internet in general over the past year, according to comScore Networks, a Web research firm. But over the same period, real estate sites have had triple the growth -- and auto sites quadruple the growth -- of the Internet over all.
 Part of the reason, analysts said, is that shoppers who are considering expensive purchases are more likely to have high-speed Internet connections at home, allowing them to do more research. (Last week, Nielsen/NetRatings said that 72 percent of home-based Internet users had high-speed connections, compared with 57 percent a year ago.) High-speed users are heavier consumers of photos, video and other interactive research features, driving up costs. But because of the influx of advertising money, sites devoted to big-ticket items have been able to keep pace.
 ''In years past we might have had to spend $1 million a year on photos,'' said Jeremy Anwyl, president of Edmunds.com, a privately held auto research site. ''Now, it might be $3 million, but traffic has quadrupled over the same period.''
 Advertising revenue, Mr. Anwyl added, is growing even more quickly than traffic. He would not disclose specific sales, but he said that after growing about 50 percent annually over the past six years, sales this year would probably be double that of last year.
 Still, Mr. Anwyl said, because Google can quickly point consumers to newer informational sites with innovative features, the company must continuously invest in new technologies as a defensive measure.
 Zillow.com is perhaps the best example of how an upstart can attract attention quickly. Started late last year, the site features a single service: estimating the market value of a property for homeowners and prospective homebuyers. After the site drew attention from blogs and other sites though its ability to produce home valuations quickly, Zillow's search engine rankings soared, along with its traffic. It is now the ninth-most popular site in the real estate category, according to comScore.
 Lloyd Frink, Zillow's president, was previously a senior executive at Expedia.com, the online travel agency. Mr. Frink said he approached real estate ''by thinking how to make this a more efficient transaction,'' just as he had with travel. 
 ''But it became quickly apparent to us that there's a bigger opportunity in providing information than in having a 'Buy Now' button for real estate'' he said.
 It was a lesson, Mr. Frink said, that underscored a point he learned while at Expedia. In 2004, IAC/InterActiveCorp, which then owned Expedia.com, bought TripAdvisor.com, which provides consumer-generated reviews and advice to travelers. Mr. Frink was skeptical about the purchase of a site that could point prospective customers to the competition.
 ''But TripAdvisor showed you can succeed in a category that had been dominated by companies making money off of transactions,'' Mr. Frink said. ''They showed both of those things could coexist.''
 TripAdvisor, which is now part of the Expedia family of sites that IAC spun off last year, does not disclose revenues, but according to Stephen Kaufer, TripAdvisor's chief executive, the business will contribute slightly less than 5 percent of Expedia's projected revenue this year.
 One key to the site's success has been the overwhelming acceptance of user-generated reviews by consumers, particularly in the past two years. That, in turn, led to more contributions and a more authoritative quality to the site.
 But playing a big part in TripAdvisor's success, and that of other editorially focused sites, is Google. The search giant greatly accelerated the adoption of so-called pay-per-click text ads, which generate revenue both for Google and for the site where the ad appears. TripAdvisor began displaying the ads in late 2001, to sudden and great effect.
 According to Ms. Johnson of Forrester, that is the most important element in the resurgence of media sites. Good timing, she said, has been critical. 
 ''The thing the older sites did well was stay alive long enough for the rise of Google,'' she said. ''They got hit by a pitch.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert N. Brisco, chief executive of Internet Brands, recently added WikiTravel.com, with advice generated by travelers, to its list of niche information sites. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Behavior; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Internet Brands

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi; Robert N Brisco

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



546 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: A Brazilian Outpost in Westchester

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., June 23 

 BODY:
Brazil's economy was in tatters. Inflation and taxes had turned Nike sneakers and Ray-Ban sunglasses into luxury goods. Yet the children who lived next door to Luiz Magno de Lima were routinely outfitted in American-made clothes and shoes.
 It was the mid-1980's in Pocos (pronounced PAW-sos) de Caldas, a blue-collar city of 140,000 in the mountains of southeastern Brazil. The military had just ceded power after two decades of control, and the country, like Mr. Lima, was straining to move forward.
''I was struggling to pay the bills and right next door to me, the children were dressed like magnates,'' Mr. Lima said. ''When they'd come by my house to show off their new shoes or their new sunglasses, I'd wonder, how is it that a working man can afford such expensive stuff?'' 
 The answer, he learned, was that his neighbor's oldest son was living in this Westchester County city and sending money and gifts back every month. So when Mr. Lima lost his job as a welder in 1986, he decided, like a few before him and many after, to try his luck in Mount Vernon. 
 This working-class city of 70,000 is not what comes to mind when one thinks of Westchester prosperity, but for Brazilians, and for those from Pocos de Caldas in particular, it has become a promised land.
 Today, one in 10 people in Mount Vernon is from Brazil, and two-thirds of those Brazilians are from Pocos de Caldas, according to estimates by the city and the Brazilian Consulate in New York.
 They have transformed this city. Brazilian stores line commercial strips. The public schools have brought in teachers and counselors who speak Portuguese. The language can be heard on the streets throughout town. 
 And they have also transformed their Brazilian hometown, pumping millions of dollars into its economy, helping to pay for new homes and businesses there.
 ''As we're trying to improve the city's economic base, they're proving to be an important contributor,'' said Mount Vernon's mayor, Ernest D. Davis. ''When they open a store, they employ people, they pay taxes and they improve the area. I have to support that. Every little thing that they build is a benefit to the entire community, not just to people from Brazil.''
 This city has become such a popular destination for people from Pocos de Caldas that a Brazilian journalist has made it the focus of a series of documentaries for public television there. The journalist, Walther Alvarenga, calls it ''New York, O Sonho Brasileiro'' -- ''New York, the Brazilian Dream.'' In November, Mayor Davis traveled to Pocos de Caldas to sign a sister-city agreement to strengthen the bond.
 The influx of Brazilians has further diversified the ethnic mix of Mount Vernon, where about 60 percent of the population is black, with many people from English-speaking islands in the Caribbean, and smaller Asian and Hispanic populations. The Brazilian community is still largely self-contained.
 But in small ways, Brazilians are starting to make inroads into the larger life of the city. 
 Last year, Mayor Davis appointed a Brazilian, Clecy Guimaraes, to be his liaison to the community. Since then, Ms. Guimaraes, who is from Pocos de Caldas, has been quietly lobbying Westchester County officials to change the name of the Office for Hispanic Affairs to the Office for Latino Affairs. (Since Brazil was colonized by Portugal, the word ''Hispanic,'' denoting Spanish heritage, does not apply to Brazilians.)
 ''We're here to stay, so we have to make sure that we're counted and that our voices are heard,'' she said. On West Lincoln Avenue, a Brazilian bakery, two restaurants, a butcher shop and a nightclub sit within 300 yards of one another. Not far away, a deli sells pizza slices topped with fresh white cheese made in Minas Gerais, the Brazilian state that includes Pocos de Caldas.
 Every morning at the bakery, Padaminas, dozens of men in work boots and paint-stained pants show up for a typical breakfast of pao com manteiga, hot French bread slathered in butter. A few blocks away on Gramatan Avenue, at a bar above a cellphone store, a visitor can sip beer from glasses that look like jelly jars and are just like those used in Brazil. 
 In the past two weeks, the bar, like many other Brazilian bars in town, was filled with loud, cheerful fans who gathered to watch Brazil win its way through the World Cup's first round. Nearby at the offices of the Civic Center, a fledgling advocacy group, the newly arrived learn to convert meters to feet and kilograms to pounds. 
 They learn to translate words such as martelo, prego and furadeira -- hammer, nail and drill -- words they will need if they take a job in construction, as most of the men do. The center's director, Marcio Mesquita, calls it ''part language, part survival course.''
 ''There are a lot of Brazilian electricians and carpenters who have trouble doing this same type of work here because they don't know the English names for the tools, or they don't know that we don't use the metric system in the United States, so we try to help them out,'' said Mr. Mesquita, who moved to Mount Vernon from Sao Paulo five years ago. 
 There is no official estimate of how much the Brazilians in Mount Vernon send home every month. But the owner of one nondescript money-transfer business set up in a corner booth at a bustling food store said his customers sent about $800,000 to Brazil every month.
 ''The vast majority of the new homes built in Pocos de Caldas were financed with money made in Mount Vernon,'' said Mr. Alvarenga, the Brazilian journalist who has chronicled the lives of Brazilians in Mount Vernon for 15 years. 
 Many of the Brazilians who live in Mount Vernon have not only bought homes in Pocos de Caldas, but have also saved money to open businesses there, like English schools, restaurants and construction companies, that their relatives run, said the city's mayor, Sebastiao Navarro, in a telephone interview. 
 With its cobblestone streets, Portuguese-style mansions, and hot springs, Pocos de Caldas is a quaint, placid city whose lively tourism and mining industries have fallen victim to Brazil's seesawing economy time and again. It has experienced unprecedented growth in the past decade, but wages are still low and the job market unstable.
 In his series of films, Mr. Alvarenga offers a heartfelt glimpse of the hardships faced by these immigrants, many of whom do not speak English -- among them: loneliness and the long, cold winters. Many of these Brazilians are in the United States illegally, so if they leave, they may not be able to come back.
 ''We sort of demystify the immigrant experience,'' said Mr. Alvarenga, 46, who splits his time between Sao Paulo and Pocos de Caldas, but travels to Mount Vernon once a year to gather material for his show. ''The idea was that if you came to America, you were going to live like a king, to get rich fast, but in reality, life in the United States might be good, but it's not at all glamorous.''
 Mr. Lima, 65, did odd jobs in Mount Vernon at first until he got a job as the live-in superintendent of a modest apartment building near the Bronx border. It is not an easy job for a man his age -- Mr. Lima washes windows, scrubs floors and sweeps sidewalks -- but it has allowed him to find the stability that eluded him back home, he said.
 In 2004, Mr. Lima and his wife, Claudete, got their green cards and went back to Brazil for their first visit since leaving in the late 1980's, he said. He stayed in the house that he bought for his mother. Now, he and his two sons, who also live in Mount Vernon, plan to pool their money to buy a home here so that he has a place of his own to enjoy retirement.
 ''If I have a home here, I can go to Brazil in the winter and then come back for the spring and the summer,'' he said. ''Now, that's what I call a good life.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Luiz Magno de Lima, right rear, and counter-clockwise, his wife, Claudete, their son Flavio, grandson Kevin and a neighbor's child. The couple left Brazil in the '80's. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
Padaminas, a bakery, is among the many businesses in Mount Vernon that cater to Brazilian tastes. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Walther Alvarenga, right, a journalist, interviews Clecy Guimaraes, in gown, and Mayor Ernest D. Davis. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
 An enthusiastic Brazilian crowd watched a World Cup soccer match at a bar in Mount Vernon, which is now home to about 7,000 Brazilians. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); CITIES (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); REFUGEES (74%); CITY LIFE (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) Brazilian-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Television

PERSON: Fernanda Santos; Luiz Magno de Lima; Walther Alvarenga

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Mount Vernon (NY); Pocos de Caldas (Brazil); Brazil; Mount Vernon (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



547 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: From the Gulf Coast, a Cry for Help

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Legacy of the Storm: Depression and Suicide'' (front page, June 21):
 It is extremely difficult for many living with the reminder of the storm's devastation not to internalize a sense of themselves as having been destroyed. 
 I know from experience in working with people who have been traumatized that the expectation of help is reasonable and a midwife of hope. The misery of those affected by Katrina is compounded by feeling left behind by our government to fend for themselves. 
 A vast infusion of primary medical and mental health care is needed in the region. The immediate emotional, spiritual and physical impact of the hurricane upon some of its victims will exact a long-term price of their continued suffering -- consequences that are dire for them, their families, future generations and our country.

Frederick Streets
New Haven, June 21, 2006

The writer, a psychiatric social worker, is the chaplain of Yale University.

To the Editor:
 A full 10 months after Lake Pontchartrain flooded New Orleans and left 1,500 neighbors, friends and relatives dead, only a portion of the population has been able to return to begin to put the city and their lives back together. 
 Bodies are still being discovered in the ubiquitous rubble, FEMA continues to shift gears on housing support, while HUD has just announced plans to restore a portion of low-income housing. 
 The Army Corps of Engineers, ''hired'' to construct the flood protection system that was to prevent this catastrophe, has admitted that it erred in the design and construction of that system.
 Is it any wonder that the folks in New Orleans, living under these conditions and with their ultimate fate being determined in Washington, feel ''depressed''?

Richard Nelson
Ipswich, Mass., June 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''The New Orleans Muddle'' (editorial, June 21):
 The failure of New Orleans and the likely death of one of the world's great cities is a failure of leadership, not only of elected officials like Mayor C. Ray Nagin, but also of the leaders of the city's corporate, academic, labor and planning communities, as well as the nongovernmental organizations.
 The world was prepared to rebuild New Orleans and to replace the torn civic fabric, but no leader emerged to articulate the challenge, pledge the tenacity or vow to expend the energy and imagination required.
 Absent courageous leadership, no sense of citywide common purpose emerged. The opportunity to create a great, overarching vision like that created by Daniel Burnham for Chicago was frittered away in petty squabbles, turf battles, neighborhood plans and business as usual.
 Having owned a home in New Orleans for nearly three years, I believe that saving the city now requires miracles, not money.

D. C. Montague
Chattanooga, Tenn., June 21, 2006

To the Editor:
 In ''The New Orleans Muddle'' (editorial, June 21), you write about the ''totally unacceptable'' delay in developing a master plan for rebuilding the city. 
 But as a native New Yorker who now lives in New Orleans, I can't help but point out that the attacks of 9/11 took place nearly five years ago in a small enclave of Lower Manhattan, and a reconstruction plan for that sliver of space has yet to be truly finalized and put into effect.
 While I certainly wish things would move faster in New Orleans for the sake of the city and its residents, I hope outsiders realize that dealing with what the president called ''the largest reconstruction efforts the world has ever seen'' is -- unfortunately -- not something that can be done quickly.

Steve Feldman
Los Angeles, June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); SUICIDE (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (70%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%); LAKES (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ARMIES (53%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Mental Health and Disorders ; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (54%)

PERSON: Frederick J (Chaplain) Streets; Richard Nelson; D C Montague; Steve Nelson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



548 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Trading Up

BYLINE: By Susan Sechler and Ann Tutwiler. 
Susan Sechler, a former deputy director of economics at the Department of Agriculture, is the director of trade and development at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. Ann Tutwiler is the managing director for trade and development at the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AFTER protests, walk-outs, missed deadlines and deadlock, trade negotiators in Geneva have been moving toward a deal on agricultural subsidies and tariffs that could clear the way for a world trade agreement. The deal negotiators are discussing goes much further than the last round of trade talks. But it will not spur significant growth in low-income economies, the ostensible intended beneficiaries of negotiations known, after all, as the Doha Development Round.
 However, a study completed this month by the International Food Policy Research Institute argues that, with two modest changes, the deal on the table in Geneva could bring about greater global economic growth and greater benefits for poor countries. 
The United States and Europe oppose these changes. But instead of defending narrow commercial interests at exorbitant expense, they should embrace this opportunity to advance their larger strategic goals of promoting prosperity and stability among the world's poorest nations. 
 According to the study, a deal similar to what is now on the table -- modest cuts in real tariffs, limited cuts in domestic support payments, full elimination of export subsidies and 97 percent duty- and quota-free access for exports from the poorest countries -- would create global gains of $54 billion per year. High-income countries, which have about 80 percent of world income, would get almost 60 percent of the $54 billion. Middle-income countries, which have almost 20 percent of world income, would get about 40 percent. Low-income countries, which have only 1.2 percent of world income, would get 1.9 percent of the gain. 
 In other words, years from now when the agreement is in full force, the low-income countries would still account for only a tiny percentage of growing global markets. 
 But the study went on to model two adjustments that would make the deal more meaningful for poor countries.
 The first was to exempt from duties and quotas all exports from the least developed countries to the richest countries. If such exports were exempted, the benefits from the deal increase to $70 billion -- with nearly half of that gain going to the poorest countries. 
 The United States is justifiably proud that with an average applied tariff rate of 1.4 percent (in 2005), our economy is among the most open. But Washington wants still to exclude various items of clothing, footwear and agricultural products -- the very products that poor countries have to sell -- from any big cuts in duties, even for the poorest countries. The United States fears a surge of textile imports from places like Bangladesh and Cambodia. But isn't that the very point of a development round? 
 American politicians will argue that these protections are needed so that American workers are not asked to bear the brunt of bringing the world's poor into global markets. But the cost of protecting jobs in uncompetitive sectors through tariffs is foolishly high, with little of the benefits accruing to workers. The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas reported in 2002 that saving a job in the sugar industry cost American consumers $826,000 in higher prices a year, saving a dairy industry job cost $685,000 per year and saving a job in the manufacturing of women's handbags cost $263,000. Wouldn't these workers choose not to hold an insecure job for another year or two if they had the option instead of getting more education and more training, which would enable them to find work in a growth industry, or health care, retirement and even a college education for their children? 
 The second change proposed by the International Food Policy Research Institute lowers the percentage of ''sensitive and special'' agricultural products that can carry high tariffs from 5 percent to 1 percent. This modification increases world income by $7.5 billion beyond the $54 billion. Because it applies to all countries, the benefits of this change are spread more evenly. But such a step would be particularly good for developing countries like Thailand, Vietnam and Zimbabwe for which agriculture is an important source of export revenue. Here Europe and Japan are fighting the change; they originally pushed for exemptions on 8 percent and 15 percent respectively of agricultural products.
 By not showing more altruistic leadership in the trade talks, the United States and Europe are in serious danger of missing the chance to lead the world closer to a rules-based global system of markets, trade and finance built on the democratic norms and values both continents profess to support. And in particular, the United States is forgoing an opportunity to restore some luster to its public image overseas.
 But making the trade deal truly benefit the world's poorest is not simply an act of charity or a public relations gesture. The extra increase in market potential could also enable the poorest countries to attract more investment in roads, ports and training, helping their businesses to grow and opening more opportunities for American and European companies. That's why two weeks ago more than 200 leading American companies, business associations and organizations sent a letter urging American trade negotiators not to accept a ''Doha-lite'' agreement. 
 Conversely, an unwillingness to make the hard decisions required for a successful Doha Round not only takes those economic benefits off the table, but sends a clear message that rich countries are unwilling to allow 90 percent of humanity access to the same opportunities they had to generate their unprecedented wealth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TEXTILES (60%) Agriculture; Customs (Tariff); Crop Controls and Subsidies; Third World and Developing Countries; International Trade and World Market; Quotas; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FOOD POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: Susan Sechler; Ann Tutwiler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



549 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Escalating Prescription Drug Prices

 BODY:
Two recent surveys of drug prices by consumer advocacy groups show a disturbing pattern of increases as the new Medicare drug benefit was getting under way. The surveys make it clear that health plans and individual consumers will need to be especially vigilant to keep spending on medications within reasonable bounds. 
 An analysis of 193 brand-name prescription drugs by AARP, which represents older Americans, found that their average wholesale prices increased 3.9 percent over the first three months of this year, almost four times the general inflation rate. Those increases will almost certainly drive up retail prices for consumers who pay out of pocket and will result in higher insurance premiums for many of those who have drug coverage.
Indeed, the second survey, by Families USA, a patient advocacy group, found that virtually all of the new private drug plans under Medicare raised their prices for frequently used medicines between mid-November 2005, when enrollment began, to mid-April 2006. For 19 of the top 20 drugs prescribed for older Americans, these changes were virtually identical, on average, to changes in the wholesale prices charged by manufacturers. 
 These price trends ought to put enormous pressure on Medicare drug plans to get the steepest possible discounts and rebates from the manufacturers when negotiating drug prices for the coming year.
 The Families USA study found that the Department of Veterans Affairs has negotiated much lower prices than the private drug plans were able to achieve for the top 20 drugs. If the plans can't do better, Congress should allow the Medicare program to negotiate prices directly with the pharmaceutical companies, an approach that was blocked on the theory that competition among private plans would suffice to keep drug prices down. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG PRICES (92%); MEDICARE (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Medicine and Health; Editorials; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicare

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



550 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: On Lucille Avenue, the Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: ELMONT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The streets where Patrick Nicolosi sees America unraveling still have the look of the 1950's. Single-family homes sit side by side, their lawns weed-whacked into submission to the same suburban dream that Mr. Nicolosi's Italian-American parents embraced 40 years ago when they moved to this working-class community on Long Island.
 But when a school bus stops at the white Cape Cod opposite his house, two children seem to pop up from beneath the earth. Emerging from an illegal basement apartment that successive homeowners have rented to a Mexican family of illegal immigrants, they head off to another day of public schooling at taxpayer expense.
This is a neighborhood in the twilight zone of illegal immigration, and wherever Mr. Nicolosi looks, the hidden costs of cheap labor hit home. 
 There is the gas station a dozen blocks away where more than 100 immigrant day laborers gather, leaving garbage and distress along a residential side street -- and undercutting wages for miles, contends Mr. Nicolosi, 49, a third-generation union man and former Wonder Bread truck driver who retired after a back injury. There are the schools and hospitals filled with children from illegal apartments like the basement dwelling, which Mr. Nicolosi calls ''a little dungeon, windowless.''
 ''Two children are in school, and one is handicapped -- that's $10,000 for elementary school, $100,000 a year for special education,'' he said. ''Why am I paying taxes to support that house?''
 One man's frustration over a family in a basement goes a long way toward explaining the grass-roots anger over immigration policy that many members of Congress say they keep hearing in their districts. And it also illustrates the unsettling consequences such anger can set in motion. 
 It is the economics of class, not the politics of culture or race, that fires Mr. Nicolosi's resentment about what he sees in Elmont, which is probably as diverse a suburb as exists in the United States. Like many working-class Americans who live close to illegal immigrants, he worries that they are yet another force undermining the way of life and the social contract that generations of workers strived so hard to achieve.
 ''The rich, they're totally oblivious to this situation -- what the illegal immigration, the illegal housing, the day labor is doing to us,'' he said. ''Everyone's exploiting these people -- the landlords, the contractors. And now we can't afford to pay taxes. People like me who want to live the suburban dream, we're being pushed out unless we join the illegality.''
 Instead, unlike most people, Mr. Nicolosi joins the civic fray. A self-appointed watchdog, he tries to get local officials to investigate houses that he and his allies suspect of violations, and to crack down on day laborers spilling into front yards. 
 But this spring, as the immigration debate ignited nationally, the results of his crusade unfolded like a parable about being careful what you wish for -- leaving the Mexican family uprooted, neighbors unhappy, and Mr. Nicolosi himself more frustrated than ever.
 Elmont, just over the Nassau County line from Queens, has always drawn immigrants or their children. In the decades since Mr. Nicolosi's father, a bus driver, moved his family here from the city, families from every continent have joined the Italian and Central European generations who settled the first subdivisions. Its population of 33,000 is about 46 percent white, 35 percent black and 9 percent Asian, and 14 percent of its residents are Hispanic.
 Mr. Nicolosi, a compact, animated man, says he is fighting to save the modest suburban lifestyle that these families seek, regardless of ethnicity.
 In the last four years, Elmont raised school taxes by 57 percent and added 40 elementary school classrooms -- partly filled, district officials agree, by families in illegal rentals, both immigrant and native-born. In response, Mr. Nicolosi ran for the school board three times, losing yet again in May. As president of the Elmont East End Civic Association, he prods the police to enforce laws against loitering, and in letters to newspapers laments the erosion of suburbia with examples uncomfortably close to home. 
 Recently, for example, to the dismay of his wife, a police crossing guard, he publicly cited their children -- a doctor, a teacher and a law school applicant -- as examples of a generation that is being priced out of Long Island by soaring property taxes. 
 The Cape Cod across Lucille Avenue from Mr. Nicolosi's home is among hundreds of houses that he and his associates have turned in to officials since 2002, he said, based on anonymous complaints collected by a local weekly. They checked the addresses for telltale signs like multiple electric meters -- with no regard, he insisted, to the occupants' ethnicity or citizenship.
 But even among those who echoed Mr. Nicolosi's concerns, many called him a busybody and a troublemaker. There was sympathy for the family in the basement, and for their landlords, the Cervonis, a young couple with a baby and a construction business who bought the house from an absentee landlord in 2004 and moved in. 
 ''What could we do, throw them out?'' asked Luciana Cervoni, who called the tenants hard-working and quiet. ''They've lived here for six, seven years now.'' 
 In a dungeon? 
 ''If that were the case, we would have moved a long time ago,'' said the mother in the basement, Ariana O., 30, allowing a glimpse of its two-bedroom finished interior that showed how homey the couple had made it for their three children: a boy of 10, a developmentally disabled girl of about 6, and a year-old baby -- the last two born in the United States.
 Ms. O. and her husband, Placido, a mason, asked that their last name be withheld, for fear of immigration authorities. They were aware of past housing-code citations generated by Mr. Nicolosi's complaints. Nothing had come of those, so they were not too worried. 
 But as the national debate flared, so did Mr. Nicolosi's frustration at what he saw in his neighborhood. Those clipped front lawns? Mowed by underpaid Latino workers. Those tidy homes? Contractors hired immigrants off the books to repair roofs and replace pipes, Mr. Nicolosi said, instead of training, and decently compensating, someone like the 20-year-old American up the block who needed a job. 
 ''They're telling us Americans don't want to do these jobs,'' Mr. Nicolosi said. ''That's a lie. The business owners don't want to pay. I know what my grandparents fought for: fair wages and days off. Now we're doing it in reverse.''
 Trying not to feed the cycle, Mr. Nicolosi said, he had paid a premium to use nationally known home-improvement chains when he renovated his house. But by now he knew that was no guarantee that the people who did the work were legal, let alone fairly paid, he said.
 ''It's either a country of law and order and what my parents fought for, or we just turn it over to big business,'' he went on, working himself into a speech that connected many dots.
 He pointed to American companies in Mexico that paid wages too low to keep Mexicans from streaming north to sell their labor on American streets. He angrily denied bigotry and avowed pity for the immigrants, squeezed by low wages and high rents.
 ''They will never, ever better themselves,'' he said of the Mexican family.
 And as he drove his black S.U.V. through a neighborhood where garden shrines outnumber basketball hoops, his world view darkened what he saw. Passing a small house, he shared his suspicion that it illegally harbored multiple immigrant families, because a dozen children regularly played out front. 
 But the homeowners later set the record straight. ''We're a family here -- we're no immigrants,'' declared Fanny Echeverria, 40, quickly adding, ''What makes him better than immigrants?''
 She and her husband, George, have five children between them, and their yard is a magnet for neighbors' children. Ms. Echeverria is a native New Yorker of Greek and Dominican heritage, her husband a naturalized United States citizen born in Chile. And they own one of Long Island's most highly rated French restaurants, Soigne, in Woodmere.
 Indeed, Mr. Echeverria's biography served as a counterpoint to Mr. Nicolosi's pessimism. He was 10 when his family came to America in 1979, and he was an illegal immigrant himself until the 1986 amnesty.
 Still, he echoed Mr. Nicolosi's concerns about immigrants in unsafe basement apartments. ''They cannot get a steady job because they are here illegally, so they cannot pay for housing,'' he said.
 On the other hand, they avoid middle-class tax burdens, Mr. Nicolosi contends, sounding almost envious. He and a neighbor often joke that they should move to Mexico and return illegally: ''Then we don't have to worry about health care, don't have to worry about paying taxes. And if I worked for $100 a day I'd be better off. After I pay taxes I don't even have $100 a day.'' 
 From the basement, what struck the Mexican couple, however, was that Mr. Nicolosi did not work. 
 ''The man has nothing to do except look,'' the wife said in Spanish as her husband cooked dinner. Recalling the Latino workers she saw renovating his house, she added, ''If we weren't here, who would do the work?'' 
 In Guanajuato, Mexico, Mr. O.'s best option was a job at General Motors that at the time paid $10 a day, he said. Like everyone, he added, ''we came for a better life for our children.'' 
 What of the union battles of Mr. Nicolosi's grandparents? ''That's what we're doing now,'' Ms. O. said. Taxes? ''We all consume,'' Mr. O. argued, with a gesture that took in the dining table, the television and a picture of the Last Supper. ''I'm paying the rent, so I'm paying the homeowner's taxes.''
 But upstairs that day, their landlords were deciding to evict the family. An official had called, alerting them to a new complaint by Mr. Nicolosi, the Cervonis said. This time, with heightened public attention, it would lead to hefty fines unless the basement was vacated. 
 Joseph Cervoni broke the news to the tenants the night President Bush spoke to the nation about immigration. As word spread, neighbors blamed Mr. Nicolosi. Carolyn Gilbert, a retired secretary who advocates an electrified fence at the Mexican border, said he had no conscience. ''People forget the human dimension,'' she said. 
 Louise Cerullo, 84, a registered Republican like Mr. Nicolosi, protested: ''They're human beings. If they can work and pay their rent, what's wrong with that?'' 
 The talk reached Mr. Nicolosi soon after his school board defeat. He denied complaining, then threatened to sue local officials for identifying him, and questioned the timing of the crackdown.
 ''They did it now to shut me up,'' he said.
 On the first Saturday in June, the Mexican family moved out. Watching from next door, Ms. Gilbert worried about the children's schooling, and wondered where they could go. Probably, she said, to another basement apartment. 
 ''For every problem, there's a solution,'' she added. ''For every solution there's another problem.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick Nicolosi, below, a former school board candidate in Elmont, N.Y., has filed many complaints about illegal apartments in town, including the one occupied by the Mexican family across the street, above. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Day laborers gathering for work along Hempstead Turnpike on Long Island. Patrick Nicolosi of Elmont says they leave a mess and undercut wages. Some neighbors call him a busybody. He says his motive is compassion. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 On the door of the illegal apartment of a Mexican family is a prayer to the Virgin of Guadalupe. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); REFUGEES (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (52%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Foreign Labor; Public Opinion; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Nina Bernstein; Patrick Nicolosi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) Elmont (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



551 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: A Waste of Energy

 BODY:
The House leadership has proclaimed this week ''House Energy Week,'' as if nomenclature alone could conjure up a useful response to the country's dependence on foreign oil, or the threat of global warming, or even $3-a-gallon gasoline, which -- let's face it -- is what really worries our elected representatives as they head home to face the voters over the July 4 recess. 
 As the nickel-and-dime agenda suggests, ''energy week,'' which may not last even five days, is a joke. There is one bill calling for further research into hybrid cars, another subsidizing solar demonstration projects, another encouraging more efficient tires. All are useful, all terribly modest given overall needs. And then there's our personal favorite for the fox-in-the-henhouse award, a proposal to give $10 million to the automobile and oil industries to teach the public how to save gasoline.
 The only big item is a bill from Representative Richard Pombo, the California Republican, that would end a longstanding federal moratorium on oil and gas drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf, subject to state approval. While perhaps three-quarters of known coastal oil and gas reserves are already open for drilling, mainly in the Gulf of Mexico, and while the environmental problems of further drilling are obvious, Mr. Pombo's proposal would be worth entertaining if it were linked, say, to a serious effort to reduce demand by sharply raising fuel economy standards. 
 But the House is dominated by people who believe that a country that consumes one-quarter of the world's oil while possessing 3 percent of the world's reserves can somehow drill its way to energy independence. And that means that the worthy proposals that do exist to increase conservation and efficiency won't get the time of day.
 If there is any serious conservation to be had this year on energy, it is likely to take place in the Senate, which has before it two similar, comprehensive bills aimed at reducing oil dependency and, in the bargain, sharply reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These bills would require that oil consumption be cut by 50 percent over the next quarter-century and would provide a broad array of tools to get there -- loans, direct subsidies, tax breaks and other incentives to encourage the production of fuel-efficient cars, for instance, as well as alternatives to gasoline like cellulosic ethanol. 
 Just getting a start on one of these big bills would be a plus. House members have introduced 267 energy-related bills this year, and senators have introduced 210. Everyone wants to be seen to be doing something. What those numbers really add up to is close to 477 excuses to do next to nothing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); ETHANOL (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); ALCOHOLS (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Editorials; International Trade and World Market

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



552 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Responsible Use of Eminent Domain

 BODY:
A Supreme Court decision last year on eminent domain caused many people to overreact, most of all Congress. The House of Representatives passed a troubling bill that would severely limit local governments' ability to clean up blighted areas and promote responsible development. The Senate, which has yet to act, should take a more moderate approach. 
 In last year's decision, the high court upheld the use of eminent domain by New London, Conn., to assemble property for a private development project that promised to prop up the city's tax base and bring in badly needed jobs. The ruling set off talk of ''eminent domain abuse.'' What has been lost in the discussion is the good that eminent domain can do. It has long been a key tool by which cities can upgrade deteriorating neighborhoods and assemble land for affordable housing. (The New York Times benefited from eminent domain in clearing the land for the new building it is constructing opposite the Port Authority Bus Terminal.)
The bill the House passed last fall would block many of these good uses. It would cut off federal funds to states and cities that use eminent domain for economic development projects, a costly penalty that would make it harder for struggling cities like New London to rebound. It would also let private property owners sue to block eminent domain for seven years, a period so long that it would scare private lenders away from financing such projects.
 The Senate bill should be more temperate. It should have a broad exception for blight, so governments can use eminent domain to upgrade rundown areas. It should make clear that building affordable housing is an appropriate use for eminent domain. And it should not put up roadblocks like the excessively long period for bringing lawsuits.
 Taking away private property for public use should not be done lightly. Owners must receive just compensation. Procedures must be fair, and property owners must be given an adequate opportunity to be heard. Eminent domain should be used only for truly public purposes. These rights are already recognized in the law, but there is no harm in firming them up. Congress should, however, avoid passing sweeping legislation that prevents governments from promoting development projects that significantly advance the public interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPEALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%) Eminent Domain; Editorials; Law and Legislation

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



553 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Phelps Dodge Is Expected To Buy 2 Big Nickel Miners 

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
Phelps Dodge, the world's largest copper producer, agreed to acquire two of the biggest nickel miners last night in a huge deal worth $40 billion, according to people involved in the transaction. The deal, for Inco and Falconbridge, would create a mining behemoth that will reshape the industry as commodity prices continue to soar. 
 The deal comes a day after steel giant Arcelor agreed to merge with Mittal Steel in a $33.5 billion deal. Mining and other commodity-related companies are increasingly seeking to merge to take advantage of the enormous economies of scale involved in the mining and processing of metals. Steel and nickel producers have become particular attractive in the past year as China's appetite for the metals has grown exponentially. 
The complex three-way deal between Phelps Dodge, Inco and Falconbridge is expected to be announced today, these people said.
 The transaction would end a yearlong battle over Inco and Falconbridge, which had agreed to merge last October, by a cadre of rivals that had made hostile offers for both. Phelps Dodge, based in Phoenix, is swooping in as the white-knight to keep Inco and Falconbridge from its other suitors and to satisfy a growing chorus of investors that have contended the Inco-Falconbridge deal shortchanged its shareholders.
 Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge would acquire Inco, which would in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge and complete that merger. Inco and Falconbridge are based in Toronto.
 For Phelps Dodge, the transaction would diversify its business and catapult it into the one of the largest diversified mining companies in the world. The chain of events that set off the deal stem largely from a decision in August of last year by Xstrata, a Swiss-based mining company with extensive interests in coal, to buy a stake in Falconbridge from Brascan, a Toronto holding company that was seeking to end its long association with natural resource companies to concentrate on commercial real estate and electrical generation.
 At the time, Xstrata's chief executive, Michael Davis made it clear that acquiring more of Falconbridge was on his agenda. But a condition of the sale made a quick move to control Falconbridge potentially costly. Xstrata had agreed that for the following nine months that if it acquired Falconbridge shares at any price above 28 Canadian dollars (about $25) a share, it would also retroactively pay the premium to Brascan.
 Meanwhile, Inco, Canada's nickel mining giant, had long coveted Falconbridge. Both companies have a major base of operations near Sudbury, Ontario. But the arrangement of their mines often verged on the irrational with, for example, material from Inco mines next door to Falconbridge processing facilities being moved long distances by rail to Inco's operations. The reverse case is often true as well.
 While Xstrata waited for the nine-month Brascan bonus period to expire, Inco moved in and announced last October that it would buy Falconbridge for 12 billion Canadian dollars in cash ($10.6 billion) and stock under a friendly bid. While that represented a 21 percent premium over what Xstrata paid Falconbridge, many investors complained that the offer was insufficient.
 Completion of that deal, however, was delayed by anti-trust reviews in Europe and the United States.
 Last month, just before the Brascan-Xstrata arrangement came to an end, Inco boosted its offer to 19.6 billion Canadian dollars ($17.5 billion) from its original 12 billion Canadian dollars. But the increased bid failed to deter Xstrata. 
 Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge will pay $80 a share (Canadian) for every share of Inco; $17.50 will be paid in cash and the rest in stock. Inco will in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge by about $5 a share (Canadian) and it's offer will further increase as a result of the increased value of its shares because of Phelps Dodge's bid.
 Inco's bid for Falconbridge's shares will be worth about $62 a share. Phelps Dodge will also announce a $5 billion stock repurchase program as part of the transaction. The deal is expected to be immediately accretive to Phelps Dodge and the companies expect to save about $900 million annually as a result of the three way combination, people involved in the negotiations said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NICKEL MINING (93%); MERGERS (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); COAL MINING (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (79%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); METAL ORE MINING (78%); COAL MARKETS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POWER PLANTS (67%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Nickel; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Mines and Mining

COMPANY: VALE INCO LTD (92%); XSTRATA PLC (85%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Phelps Dodge Corp; Falconbridge; Inco Ltd

TICKER: XTAN (SWX) (85%); XTA (LSE) (85%); MTS (MCE) (57%); MT (PAR) (57%); MT (NYSE) (57%); MT (AMS) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (92%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (85%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (85%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%) ONTARIO, CANADA (86%); ARIZONA, USA (59%) CANADA (86%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



554 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Phelps Dodge Announces Deal to Buy 2 Big Nickel Miners

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
Phelps Dodge, the world's largest copper producer, said today that it had agreed to acquire two of the biggest nickel miners in a huge deal worth $40 billion. The deal, for Inco and Falconbridge, would create a mining behemoth that will reshape the industry as commodity prices continue to soar. 
 The deal comes a day after steel giant Arcelor agreed to merge with Mittal Steel in a $33.5 billion deal. Mining and other commodity-related companies are increasingly seeking to merge to take advantage of the enormous economies of scale involved in the mining and processing of metals. Steel and nickel producers have become particular attractive in the past year as China's appetite for the metals has grown exponentially. 
The transaction will end a yearlong battle over Inco and Falconbridge, which had agreed to merge last October, by a cadre of rivals that had made hostile offers for both. Phelps Dodge, based in Phoenix, is swooping in as the white-knight to keep Inco and Falconbridge from its other suitors and to satisfy a growing chorus of investors that have contended the Inco-Falconbridge deal shortchanged its shareholders.
 Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge would acquire Inco, which would in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge and complete that merger. Inco and Falconbridge are based in Toronto.
 For Phelps Dodge, the transaction would diversify its business and catapult it into the one of the largest diversified mining companies in the world. The chain of events that set off the deal stem largely from a decision in August of last year by Xstrata, a Swiss-based mining company with extensive interests in coal, to buy a stake in Falconbridge from Brascan, a Toronto holding company that was seeking to end its long association with natural resource companies to concentrate on commercial real estate and electrical generation.
 At the time, Xstrata's chief executive, Michael Davis made it clear that acquiring more of Falconbridge was on his agenda. But a condition of the sale made a quick move to control Falconbridge potentially costly. Xstrata had agreed that for the following nine months that if it acquired Falconbridge shares at any price above 28 Canadian dollars (about $25) a share, it would also retroactively pay the premium to Brascan.
 Meanwhile, Inco, Canada's nickel mining giant, had long coveted Falconbridge. Both companies have a major base of operations near Sudbury, Ontario. But the arrangement of their mines often verged on the irrational with, for example, material from Inco mines next door to Falconbridge processing facilities being moved long distances by rail to Inco's operations. The reverse case is often true as well.
 While Xstrata waited for the nine-month Brascan bonus period to expire, Inco moved in and announced last October that it would buy Falconbridge for 12 billion Canadian dollars in cash ($10.6 billion) and stock under a friendly bid. While that represented a 21 percent premium over what Xstrata paid Falconbridge, many investors complained that the offer was insufficient.
 Completion of that deal, however, was delayed by anti-trust reviews in Europe and the United States.
 Last month, just before the Brascan-Xstrata arrangement came to an end, Inco boosted its offer to 19.6 billion Canadian dollars ($17.5 billion) from its original 12 billion Canadian dollars. But the increased bid failed to deter Xstrata. 
 Under the terms of the deal, Phelps Dodge will pay $80 a share (Canadian) for every share of Inco; $17.50 will be paid in cash and the rest in stock. Inco will in turn sweeten its offer for Falconbridge by about $5 a share (Canadian) and it's offer will further increase as a result of the increased value of its shares because of Phelps Dodge's bid.
 Inco's bid for Falconbridge's shares will be worth about $62 a share. Phelps Dodge will also announce a $5 billion stock repurchase program as part of the transaction. The deal is expected to be immediately accretive to Phelps Dodge and the companies expect to save about $900 million annually as a result of the three way combination, people involved in the negotiations said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NICKEL MINING (93%); MERGERS (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); COAL MINING (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (79%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); METAL ORE MINING (78%); COAL MARKETS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POWER PLANTS (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VALE INCO LTD (92%); XSTRATA PLC (85%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (57%)

TICKER: XTAN (SWX) (85%); XTA (LSE) (85%); MTS (MCE) (57%); MT (PAR) (57%); MT (NYSE) (57%); MT (AMS) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (92%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (85%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (85%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (85%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (57%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%) ONTARIO, CANADA (86%); ARIZONA, USA (59%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



555 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Corzine's Test: Will Tax Plan Win the Day?

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
After spending more than $100 million of his own money to make the transition from Wall Street to the United States Senate, and then to the governor's office in New Jersey, Gov. Jon S. Corzine is bracing for the biggest test of his brief political career.
 New Jersey is legally obligated to produce a balanced budget for the next fiscal year by this weekend, and with a $4 billion shortfall, Mr. Corzine is strenuously trying to persuade tax-allergic legislators that his proposal to increase the sales tax to 7 percent from 6 percent is the most responsible plan, not just for this year, but for the future. He is zeroing in on his fellow Democrats, who control both chambers of the Legislature.
Whether Mr. Corzine is able to bring around the more recalcitrant members of his party could well determine how successful he is over the next four years, and perhaps beyond. 
 ''If he doesn't stand fast on the budget we might as well re-elect McGreevey or Whitman,'' said Michael M. Horn, a former state treasurer in the Kean administration, criticizing the fiscal policies of former Govs. James E. McGreevey, a Democrat, and Christie Whitman, a Republican. ''But I expect the governor to do the right thing.'' 
 To close the deal, Mr. Corzine -- a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs -- has summoned all the personal skills that made him such a popular, yet idiosyncratic, leader there. He has held unusual one-on-one meetings with legislators as well as organized breakfasts with small groups of them, not to twist their arms, they say, but to amplify his budget arguments. 
 Publicly, he has displayed a rare fiery side, pumping his fists at a rally of about 6,000 union supporters in Trenton last week and vowing to veto a budget that did not provide sufficient money to ensure that the pension plan for state employees remains adequately financed.
 When Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr. said that the $31 billion budget was doomed in the Assembly as long as it included the sales tax increase, Mr. Corzine returned the volley by warning of a government shutdown if the Legislature failed to come to terms by the Saturday deadline.
 And having spent his career at one of the premier investment houses, Mr. Corzine has taken a very hands-on approach with the fine print. He even reverts to his business roots -- sometimes a bit too closely -- as he did at a news conference last Thursday, when he dismissed a suggestion by some legislators to cut technology spending by $50 million.
 ''We need to expand our technological base if we're actually going to save money in the long-run management of the compa----'' he said, stopping in mid-word. ''Of the government.''
 Should Mr. Corzine prevail, he will enhance his credibility as an outsider who promised to apply his bottom-line and big-picture business mentality to a political system with a reputation of being petty and corrupt. And should he help turn the state's finances around, Mr. Corzine's name could well be on many Democrats' short list for president in 2012.
 But if he fails, Mr. Corzine will probably find it all but impossible to pursue other goals that might also be considered politically risky, like property tax reform and bolstering public school finances. 
 ''He, more than most governors in the past, has stated this year's budget not only in terms of how do you fill a hole, but how do you turn a ship around,'' said Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal research organization.
 If the budget represents Mr. Corzine's political Rubicon, then it is reminiscent of what two other prominent businessmen-turned-politicians faced in their first years in office.
 In Virginia, former Gov. Mark Warner, a Democrat who is contemplating a 2008 presidential bid, failed to get a sales tax passed in an attempt to improve the state's finances, but shepherded a successful bipartisan attempt two years later.
 And in New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- a Republican whom Mr. Corzine often praises -- pushed through an 18 percent increase in property taxes in his first year in office and took a beating in opinion polls before bouncing back and winning re-election convincingly last year.
 ''It really enabled Bloomberg to be able to use political capital on other initiatives, as opposed to having to fight the same budget fight every single year,'' said Eric Shuffler, who was a top aide to the previous governors, Richard J. Codey and James E. McGreevey, and is now a public policy consultant based in Manhattan. ''So Governor Corzine is rightly trying to close a long-term structural deficit with recurring revenues, because those recurring revenues will pay dividends for him in terms of the rest of his agenda.''
 Mr. Corzine's task is complicated by the fact that New Jersey legislators have a long memory when it comes to the effect tax increases have at election time. Hardly a day goes by now without someone mentioning former Gov. James Florio, who raised the sales tax in 1990 to 7 percent from 6 percent. 
 In the next election, Democratic legislators lost control of both chambers and Republicans later rolled back the tax. Governor Florio was defeated in a bid for a second term by Mrs. Whitman.
 In 2007, all 120 legislators face election, and recent polls have indicated that most residents oppose Mr. Corzine's proposal to increase the sales tax.
 Yet in the public arena, at least, Mr. Corzine -- having learned from Mr. Florio's demise -- has done far more to soften the public and pitch his plan, which originally featured about $2 billion in spending cuts and $2 billion in tax increases, with the sales tax increase accounting for $1.1 billion.
 He has attended about a dozen town hall budget meetings and appeared twice on a popular morning talk show on WKXW-FM, 101.5, which more than a decade ago helped galvanize opposition to Mr. Florio and his tax increase.
 And more recently, Mr. Corzine has tried to sway lawmakers -- something that many Democrats had complained the administration had not done enough of during the previous three months. He has focused on the Assembly, where Democrats make up the largest number of outspoken opponents of the sales tax increase.
 Last Thursday he had breakfast with Hudson County legislators, and the next day he was met with their colleagues from Essex County.
 Nor was that all. On Thursday, the revolving door at the State House seemed as if it had been moved from the main entrance on State Street to the governor's inner sanctum. In addition to Mr. Codey and Mr. Roberts, he met with Assembly Democrats like Valerie Vainieri Huttle of Bergen County; Linda R. Greenstein, who represents Mercer and Middlesex Counties; and Herb Conaway and Jack Conners, who represent Burlington and Camden Counties.
 In the end, many leading Democratic and Republican legislators say privately that they expect Mr. Corzine to get most of what he wants. He has already dropped a proposed tax on hospital beds that he had hoped would raise $430 million. And most important, he still has the support of Mr. Codey, and because -- armed with a line-item veto -- he arguably occupies the most powerful governorship in the country.
 One freshman Democratic legislator who had a private audience with Mr. Corzine, Assemblyman Gary S. Schaer of Passaic County, said he was impressed that Mr. Corzine ''affirmed his vision of fiscal integrity.'' 
 Perhaps just as important, Mr. Schaer, himself a stockbroker in Manhattan, said that Mr. Corzine appeared to be calm and confident.
 As he put it, ''The governor is a former trader, and traders thrive on this.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jon S. Corzine has proposed raising the sales tax to 7 percent from 6 percent. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Politics and Government; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation; Taxation; Sales Tax; Property Taxes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%) David W Chen; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



556 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Energy Needs Not as Urgent As Anticipated, City Says

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The city will be able to meet its growing power needs for at least four years longer than originally anticipated, potentially delaying the need for new power plants until 2012, according to a Bloomberg administration report to be released today.
 Two years ago, a task force examining the energy supply concluded that the city would need about 25 percent more electricity by 2008 and recommended steps to meet that need, including building new power plants, which generally spark fierce opposition in the neighborhoods where they are to be located. The increased electrical resources would be needed, the panel said, for economic expansion, to make energy prices competitive with those in other cities and to fill a void created by plants that are mothballed. 
But after putting in place measures to conserve energy and to make its production more efficient, the New York City Energy Policy Task Force is reporting, based on a Con Edison study, that no additional resources will be needed until at least 2012, and perhaps as late as 2014.
 ''It's not that we don't have to deal with this anymore but now we can plan for our future needs in a thoughtful way,'' said Gil C. Quiniones, a senior vice president of the Economic Development Corporation and chairman of the task force. ''We really need a combination of solutions.''
 The city's population growth and construction boom have increased the demand for power, a trend that is expected to intensify as enormous new developments take shape, including those on the Far West Side of Manhattan, around ground zero and along the Brooklyn waterfront. 
 Responding to that need, the task force, created by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2003 and comprising more than a dozen utility executives, environmentalists and economic development officials, issued 28 recommendations the next year. 
 The recommendations included building new power plants, retrofitting existing ones, simplifying the processes for locating and financing them and making sure the city's zoning rules provided sufficient industrial land to accommodate the plants.
 As the city is continuing those efforts, it is also pursuing ways to minimize the need for them.
 One strategy has focused on upgrading and expanding existing plants. Since the task force's 2004 report, three projects fueled by natural gas, a cleaner form of energy, have been completed, including two new plants and one that has been upgraded.
 The city is also looking into ways to tap excess power from upstate New York and from New Jersey, which are able to generate more energy than those areas need.
 In addition, working with Con Edison, the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority and the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group, the task force has begun a program to encourage conservation. 
 Aimed at lowering demand to reduce the risk of a system shutdown, that program includes offering consumers money if they cut back temporarily on electricity when use is highest.
 The program also offers incentives to residents and developers to install systems and equipment that are energy efficient. Officials expect the program to save the equivalent of what a large power plant could generate, Mr. Quiniones said.
 ''It doesn't only defer the need for a power plant but creates environmental benefits and a reduction in power prices,'' he said. ''It is important that we have sufficient and reliable power because it enables our growth and economic development.''
 The city has also enacted legislation requiring that its own new buildings meet higher environmental standards, and is pushing private developers to include so-called green strategies in their designs as well. 
 According to city officials, the Economic Development Corporation and the Department of Housing Preservation and Development are working on environmentally conscious development proposals worth more than $2.5 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEMAND (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) Electric Light and Power; Conservation of Resources; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENERGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: New York City Energy Policy Task Force

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%) Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



557 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: City by City, an Antipoverty Group Plants Seeds of Change

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: GARY, Ind. 

 BODY:
The teller's eyes widened as a customer poured thousands of pennies onto the counter, an intentionally obnoxious way to pay a high heating bill. Still looming in line at the utility payment center, on a street of boarded-up buildings in this rusted city, were 10 more people carrying hefty bags of pennies, all wearing the red T-shirts of the national community organizing group Acorn. 
 It was a pinprick protest, intended to grab the attention of utility executives over what members of this newest Acorn chapter charged was the company's overly quick shut-off of strapped customers.
That same day in Chicago, scores of Acorn members and volunteers fanned out in lower-income neighborhoods, gathering signatures in favor of a law that would require giant retailers like Wal-Mart to pay employees $10 an hour plus benefits. In dozens of other cities, members lobbied for the rights of Hurricane Katrina victims, protested ''predatory lending'' and registered low-income voters. 
 With offices in 106 cities and a membership reported to be 200,000, Acorn has emerged in recent years as the largest neighborhood-based antipoverty group in the country, using old-fashioned methods of door-knocking and noisy protests to push for local and national causes. It plans to open an office in 20 new cities each year for the next five years, an expansion in response to the strong grip conservatives have in Washington and to the travails of the working poor.
 ''We feel the Acorn program is popular wherever we go,'' said Wade Rathke, 57, who founded the group 36 years ago in Arkansas and goes by the title of chief organizer. ''It's like a hot knife in butter.''
 Conservative critics say Acorn and similar groups are pushing antimarket, unrealistic answers that will not help the poor in the long run. 
 But the increased mobilizing efforts, often in alliance with the growing union movement among low-end service workers, have earned the attention of Democratic politicians. 
 Those scheduled to speak at Acorn's annual meeting in July include Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York; former Senator John Edwards, who has worked with Acorn on minimum wage initiatives; Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts; and John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 The expansion of Acorn, whose formal name is the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, is part of a broader surge in populist organizing around the country centered on issues like wages, gentrification, environmental disputes and immigrant rights. 
 ''Over the last 10 years we've seen pretty explosive growth in the number and scale of community groups working in poor communities and with people of color,'' said Deepak Bhargava, of the Center for Community Change, a Washington-based support center for local organizers. Mr. Bhargava said the activism was ''approaching a scale that could have a transforming effect on American politics and society.'' 
 But the number of people involved is still limited, and while many groups share similar ''social justice'' philosophies, they are often fragmented. 
 Mr. Rathke said he had no illusions about the strength of ''government policies promoting inequality.'' But he added: ''If there is going to be a change in politics in a progressive direction, we are going to be part of that. That wasn't true 10 years ago.'' 
 Mr. Rathke spoke at the bustling Acorn headquarters in New Orleans, where the group has sought to involve poor, displaced residents in the Hurricane Katrina recovery effort. He had just returned from a week in India, where he met with private groups worried about the possible entry of Wal-Mart and similar chains. 
 Acorn has a budget this year of $37.5 million, which does not include its spinoff research and housing organizations. Only $3 million of that comes from membership dues. Most of the rest comes from foundations, private donations and ''partnerships'' in which onetime corporate targets, like the Household Financial Corporation, pay Acorn to run programs, in this case to educate people about mortgages and loan terms. 
 Local offices pursue local issues of concern, like pressing an agency to clean up a vacant lot or, in the case of the powerful chapter in New York, opening schools and cosponsoring the Working Families political party. 
 What sets Acorn apart from most community groups, said Peter Dreier, an urban planning expert at Occidental College in Los Angeles, is its ability to combine local projects with coordinated national action on larger issues.
 In a current campaign in several cities, for example, Acorn is demanding that the Sherwin-Williams paint company contribute to lead paint abatement. 
 The utility protest in Gary illustrates how Acorn creates a new chapter. Eric Weathersby, 43, is a church leader in Gary who wanted to get more involved in politics. After brief training in Chicago, Mr. Weathersby started as head organizer for Acorn in Indiana on April 17. 
 Heating bills soared last winter, and many poor residents resented their utility, the Northern Indiana Public Service Company, for what they saw as harsh policies for delinquent payers. Mr. Weathersby used the issue to recruit, going door to door himself, and by early June had 113 members. 
 Oscar L. Buggs Jr., 69, who lives on a pension from his career as a sanitation worker, was drawn in. He said he had inherited a house with past-due bills, had found himself owing $1,300 that he could not pay and had had his utilities cut off for several months. He used a flashlight to see at night. 
 ''It seems like they do good deeds for people who need help,'' Mr. Buggs said of Acorn. ''Maybe I can do some good for somebody else.'' 
 In early June, as members began unloading their pennies at the payment center, a company officer quickly appeared. He promised to relay to the company's president Acorn's demands for more aid to poor customers and a moratorium on shut-offs, and to try to set up a meeting with him.
 In an e-mail response to a query by The New York Times, the company condemned Acorn's tactics and claims. 
 ''They use threats of protests and other attention-grabbing techniques to bully local utilities and get media coverage,'' Tom Cuddy, a spokesman for the utility, said in the e-mail message. ''Most of Acorn's 'demands' are already addressed in existing assistance programs.''
 The wage campaign in Chicago, where Wal-Mart is opening its first store this fall, had a visceral appeal for many residents and has gained the support in principle of a majority of the City Council. 
 Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research and author of ''The New New Left'' (Ivan R. Dee, 2005), said this campaign, for a law tailored specifically to giant retailers, showed how out of step Acorn was with the national mood and economic realities. ''The only thing such laws ever do is to deprive shoppers in low-income neighborhoods of those stores,'' Mr. Malanga said. 
 Illustrating the philosophical divide, Madeline Talbott, a veteran Acorn organizer in charge of the Chicago office, said of Wal-Mart, ''They're the world's largest employers, and if they can't pay a living wage, who can?''
 Ms. Talbott added, ''If we're going to have a middle class in the city of Chicago, we have to set some kind of standard in the sectors of the economy that can't just move to China.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Adam Jamsa, 37, of Peoria, Ill., an Acorn member, rehearsed his door-to-door pitch for a living-wage petition with Rochelle Prather.
LaTrell Smith, 26, an Acorn member in Chicago, asked James Meadows to support a living-wage law.
 In Gary, Ind., members of the antipoverty group Acorn picked up pennies recently after a bag split on their way to a protest at a utility company. (Photographs by Sally Ryan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); HURRICANES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); POLITICS (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); RETAILERS (54%); PREDATORY LENDING (53%) Heating; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Demonstrations and Riots; Volunteers; United States Economy; Heating

ORGANIZATION: Acorn (Orgn)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (50%); TED KENNEDY (50%) Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (92%); PEORIA, IL, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Gary (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



558 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: MILITARY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Troops to Stay In West Iraq, General Says

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
American troop levels in western Iraq, one of the most dangerous parts of the country, are not expected to decline as part of a plan to make sharp reductions in American combat forces in Iraq by the end of 2007, a top general said Sunday. 
 ''I see no reductions in American forces in Al Anbar into next year, at least through next summer, because of the restiveness there,'' said the officer, Lt. Gen. John F. Sattler, who oversees marines in the Middle East and Central Asia. He was speaking about the western province of Anbar, the center of the Sunni Arab insurgency in Iraq. 
''Al Anbar is going to be one of the last provinces to be stabilized,'' General Sattler said in a telephone interview from western Iraq, where he is visiting marines as well as American and Iraqi commanders. 
 Currently, about 28,000 of the 127,000 American troops in Iraq are in Anbar Province under Marine Corps command. Securing the region, as well as building new political institutions and an economy, has lagged behind other parts of the country, and American officials are loath to cut American troops there now. The forces in the west include 19,000 marines and 7,000 soldiers.
 According to a classified briefing at the Pentagon last week by the top commander in Iraq, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the number of American combat brigades in Iraq is projected to decrease to 5 or 6 from the current level of 14 by December 2007. At the end of that year, the United States would still have responsibility for the Iraq capital and the area west of Baghdad.
 American officials emphasized that any withdrawals would hinge on continued progress, including the creation of competent Iraqi security forces, a reduction in Sunni Arab hostility toward the fledgling Iraqi government and the assumption that the insurgency will not expand beyond Iraq's six central provinces. General Sattler projected that the 10,000 trained Iraqi security forces now in Anbar would double by year's end.
 The new details about plans to draw down troop levels came after a two-week campaign by Republicans -- backed by senior White House and party political strategists -- to paint Democratic Congressional resolutions seeking timetables for withdrawal as calls to ''cut and run.'' 
 On Sunday, Democrats said that their attempts to seek a timeline had been vindicated by the president's own military planners.
 Senator John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic candidate for president who introduced a resolution calling for troop withdrawal that was defeated last week, said Sunday in a statement: ''These plans look an awful lot like what the Republicans spent the last week attacking. Will the partisan attack dogs now turn their venom and disinformation campaign on General Casey? What will the Republican Congress say to Prime Minister Maliki?''
 Some lawmakers said the plan's assumptions might be unrealistic, making deep reductions in American troop levels difficult. ''Given current events in Baghdad in particular reported on every day, quite apart from Anbar Province, the violence is horrific,'' Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican who is the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said Sunday on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation.'' 
 American troops recently ringed the insurgent stronghold of Ramadi with new checkpoints and outposts in an effort to break the grip insurgents hold on that city. Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, has been the scene of some of the fiercest regular battles between United States troops and insurgent fighters.
 General Sattler said the United States and its Iraqi allies had no intention of carrying out an offensive in Ramadi similar to the late 2004 assault on Falluja by the Marines.
 A senior Marine officer, interviewed earlier this month by e-mail, said American commanders voiced worries that some of the newer Iraqi units might not be willing to fight in Ramadi. 
 ''The concern is that once the common Iraqi soldier gets the word, a number of them will not be available,'' said the senior officer, who was granted anonymity to discuss confidential military assessments because he is not authorized to comment publicly. ''If the Iraqis bring more than 50 percent of their manning levels to the fight, I will be surprised.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); DOGS (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (54%) Eric Schmitt; John F (Lt Gen) Sattler

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%) Iraq; Anbar Province (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



559 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Tax Revenues Are a Windfall For Louisiana

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La. 

 BODY:
State officials assumed that Louisiana's tax base had been battered by last year's hurricanes, but the latest figures show that the opposite occurred: more tax dollars than ever are pouring into the state's coffers as the budget year draws to an end.
 The state predicted that tax collections would plunge by almost $900 million this year, and it slashed spending to match. Instead, a record $9.2 billion is on track to be collected by the time the budget year ends on June 30, and at least some of that tax flow looks as if it is likely to continue.
 Part of the upswing has come from gamblers dropping more dollars at casinos and video poker machines. Another part has come from higher oil and gas prices, which not only increase the state's taxes and royalties, but also increase profits in the petrochemical industry, which is a vital part of the Louisiana economy.
 But the biggest surge by far has been in sales taxes, as hurricane victims have used federal aid, insurance proceeds and their savings to replace items as disparate as socks and S.U.V.'s. Officials forecast that the state will end up with almost $500 million more in sales tax revenue than they expected before the storms hit. 
 ''I'm amazed people replaced as much of their stuff as fast as they did without a 'my home' to go to,'' said Greg Albrecht, chief economist for the Louisiana Legislature.
 In New Orleans, sales tax collections in the first quarter were at only 76 percent of last year's level, but that represents a substantial improvement over the end of 2005, said Reginald Zeno, the city's finance director.
 ''It's a lot more robust than we had imagined,'' Mr. Zeno said.
 State officials are not sure how much of the tax boom will continue, or for how long, so they are using the money to help cover one-time costs rather than for regular operating expenses, said Jerry Luke LeBlanc, the commissioner of administration. 
 Though Louisiana still has many obvious needs, like towing the hulks of hundreds of cars from under the highway overpasses in New Orleans, state officials are not devoting the unexpected tax revenue to those projects, arguing that they will ultimately be covered by the federal government. But the state is spending money to help solve less evident problems in areas like health care and economic development.
 A raise has been approved for teachers and other school workers, but Mr. LeBlanc said it would be covered by recurring revenue. The Legislature agreed with Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco's plan to set aside about $150 million to pay for hurricane evacuations and even more to help pay bills that are coming due from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which requires states to pick up some of the cost of disaster recovery.
 The governor, a Democrat, warned legislators not to go on a spending spree, and for the most part they complied. Political analysts noted, however, that the traditional battle over the budget was muted this year, partly because enough money was available to pay for at least some of the members' pet projects.
 In fact, the tax boom comes at a rather awkward time for the state, which is getting billions of dollars of aid from Washington to finance its program to help homeowners.
 ''We're extremely relieved,'' Mr. LeBlanc said. ''But our challenges far outstrip the revenue we have coming in.''
 Some parts of the state have not experienced a post-hurricane boom, and some of those with tax windfalls also face increasing costs for schools, sewers and other services.
 Big spikes in sales tax revenue have occurred in places where many storm evacuees have settled, including St. Tammany Parish, across Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans.
 In Baton Rouge, which officials believe may still have 100,000 more residents than it did a year ago, tax revenue was up more than 22 percent in the first quarter of this year, said Walter G. Monsour, the city's chief administrative officer.
 At stores, every day is like Christmas Eve, Mr. Monsour said. ''Retailers are doing wonderful, restaurants are doing wonderful, car dealers are doing wonderful,'' he said.
 But no one knows how long the boom will continue, he added, so the city will use the excess money for one-time improvements like putting video cameras in police cars.
 In the meantime, however, Baton Rouge is struggling to cope with a decade's worth of population growth that occurred in two weeks, as anyone who has tried to drive at rush hour here knows all too well. 
 Government officials in the most devastated areas could only wish for problems like that. In St. Bernard Parish, east of New Orleans, less than a third of the population has returned, and there is still nowhere to buy groceries. 
 Big problems also remain in New Orleans, as well as huge unknowns. The city has had to borrow hundreds of millions of dollars and plans to borrow more from a new state program that will help local governments and agencies cover the payments on their debts.
 And as in other areas hit by the hurricanes, no one knows what is going to happen to property tax collections, which are under way and which Mr. Zeno said were the second-largest source of city revenue after sales taxes.
 Assessed property values have dropped about 20 percent, he said, and the city is assuming it will collect about 60 percent of what is owed. ''But we're anxious to see the actual numbers,'' he said.
 On the state level, income tax collections are a big question; many residents have been out of work for months, and much of the cleanup has been done by out-of-staters, for cash. Louisiana gets about a quarter of its tax revenue from personal income tax payments, which have been postponed for hurricane victims. 
 Based on indicators like the amount being withheld from payrolls, budget forecasters say the state's budget assumes that income tax payments will fall by almost $400 million, or 16 percent, and rebound just a little next year.
 One of those forecasters, James A. Richardson, a professor of economics at Louisiana State University, said one of the biggest surprises had been how strong gambling revenue had been. At riverboat casinos, state data show, there have been fewer gamblers, but they have lost far more money ($22 million more in April this year than in the previous April).
 Some Louisianans may have pumped their federal aid into video poker machines and slots. But Professor Richardson said he thought much of the gambling was done by out-of-state workers who flocked to the Gulf Coast after the hurricanes.
 ''You couldn't go to a restaurant without running into an insurance adjuster,'' he said, ''and there were not many things for them to do in their spare time.''
 That seems unlikely to continue for long, though, and he worries about a short-term slump in the economy this year.
 ''There will be a two- or three- or four-month interlude when there are not very many people,'' Dr. Richardson said, when FEMA employees and some construction workers start to leave, tourists shun steamy New Orleans and spending by residents slows. 
 ''At some point, they'll stop buying refrigerators,'' he said. 
 But longer term, Dr. Richardson and other experts said, the prospects are bright for the economy, and therefore for tax collections. 
 Timothy P. Ryan, an economist and chancellor of the University of New Orleans, calculates that more than $61 billion of disaster-related money will surge through the state from homeowners and business insurance, federal programs and the housing assistance program. The proportion of that money that will go to building will equal more than 28 years of normal construction spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); HURRICANES (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); WEATHER (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ROYALTIES (74%); GAMING (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); POKER (69%); PETROCHEMICALS (69%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (60%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Taxation; Sales Tax; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (79%) Leslie Eaton; Kathleen Babineaux (Gov) Blanco

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006



560 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court to Hear Key Environment Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court plunged on Monday into the acrimonious debate over global warming and whether the government should regulate ''greenhouse'' gases, especially carbon dioxide from cars. The ruling could be one of the court's most important ever on the environment.
Spurred by states in a pollution battle with the Bush administration, the court said it would decide whether the Environmental Protection Agency is required under the federal clean air law to treat carbon dioxide from automobiles as a pollutant harmful to health. 
 The decision could determine how the nation addresses global warming.
 President Bush has rejected calls by environmentalists and some lawmakers in Congress to regulate carbon dioxide, the leading heat-trapping ''greenhouse'' gas going into the atmosphere. Bush favors voluntary actions and development of new technologies to curtail such emissions.
 But a dozen states argued that carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping chemicals from automobile tailpipes should be treated as unhealthy pollutants. They filed a lawsuit in an effort to force the EPA to curtail such emissions just as it does cancer-causing lead and chemicals that produce smog and acid rain.
 The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to take the case after a divided lower court sided with the administration. Arguments will be late this year, with a ruling by next June.
 ''This is going to be the first major statement by the Supreme Court on climate change. ... This is the whole ball of wax,'' said David Bookbinder, an attorney for the Sierra Club, one of a number of environmental groups that joined the states in their appeal to the high court.
 While the case doesn't specifically involve carbon releases from power plants, environmentalists said a court decision declaring carbon dioxide a harmful pollutant would make it hard for the agency to avoid action involving power plants which account for 40 percent or the carbon dioxide released into the air.
 Cars and trucks account for about half that amount.
 The EPA said in a statement that the agency ''is confident in its decision'' not to regulate the chemical under the federal Clean Air Act and plans to argue its case vigorously before the high court
 Recently, Bush told reporters he views global warming as a serious problem and has ''a plan to be able to deal with greenhouse gases'' short of regulating their use. It includes developing new technologies for cleaner burning coal, using alternative motor fuels such as ethanol as substitutes for gasoline and expanding nuclear power to produce electricity.
 Critics argue that carbon emissions have continued to increase -- though the rate of increase has declined -- and only regulation of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases will stem the amount going into the atmosphere.
 ''It is encouraging that the high court feels this case needs to be reviewed,'' said Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., who has campaigned in Congress to regulate carbon dioxide. ''It is high time to stop relying on technicalities and finger pointing to avoid action on climate change.''
 The states involved, which together account for more than a third of the car market, say the Clean Air Act makes clear carbon dioxide is a pollutant that should be regulated if it poses a danger to public health and welfare. They argue it does so by causing a warming of the earth.
 The administration maintains that unlike other chemicals that must be controlled to ensure healthy air, carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels is not a dangerous pollutant under the federal law. And, officials argue, even if it is, the EPA has discretion over whether to regulate it, considering the economic costs involved.
 The agency should not be required to ''embark on the extraordinarily complex and scientifically uncertain task of addressing the global issue of greenhouse gas emissions'' when voluntary ways to address climate change are available, the administration argued in its filing with the high court.
 While a federal appeals court sided with the administration, its ruling was mixed.
 One judge said the states and other plaintiffs had no standing because they had not proven harm. A second judge said even if the law gave the EPA authority to regulate carbon dioxide, the agency was not obligated to do so. A third judge, in the minority, said the EPA was violating the law by not regulating the chemical.
 In their appeal, the states maintained the case ''goes to the heart of the EPA's statutory responsibilities to deal with the most pressing environmental problem of our time'' -- the threat of global warming.
 Plaintiffs in the lawsuit were California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington. They were joined by a number of cities including Baltimore, New York City and Washington D.C., the Pacific island of America Samoa, the Union of Concerned Scientists, Greenpeace, and Friends of the Earth.
 The case is Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, 05-1120
 --------
 On the Net: EPA: http://www.epa.gov/globalwarming

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); BIOFUELS (83%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPEALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); SMOG (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ACID RAIN (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); ALCOHOLS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); ETHANOL (60%); CANCER (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



561 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; SCIENTIST AT WORK: Dr. Arata Kochi; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: An Iron Fist Joins The Malaria Wars

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
In the war on malaria, silver bullets inevitably morph into rubber ones: the parasite and its mosquitoes develop resistance to every miracle drug and pesticide that comes along.
 Now the war has a new general, with a new tactic.
 Instead of simply loading the latest silver cartridge -- artemisinin, the Chinese anti-malaria drug -- Dr. Arata Kochi, the new chief of the World Health Organization's global malaria program, has turned an enfilading fire on the whole field: the drug-makers, the net-makers, the scientists and even the donors and the suffering countries they try to help.
 ''The malaria community hates me,'' Dr. Kochi said in an interview in the W.H.O.'s small Manhattan office. ''I said, basically, 'You are stupid.' Their science is very weak. The community is small and inward-looking and fighting each other.''
 Dr. Kochi, who in the past ran the agency's Stop TB initiative, has never been known for his diplomatic skills. A 57-year-old graduate of Japanese medical schools and the Harvard School of Public Health, he ruled the Stop TB campaign with an iron fist, colleagues say, and by his own admission, so alienated the Rockefeller Foundation and other partners that he was ultimately forced out of the job. 
 But even his critics admit that he was a decisive strategist and that the tuberculosis campaign was one of most effective the W.H.O. has run.
 ''His tactic really worked,'' said Dr. Jacob Kumaresan, a former chief of the Stop TB Partnership in Geneva and now the president of the International Trachoma Initiative. ''With his staff, he's pretty strict -- those who don't produce results will be laid off. But he's very bold, and I think he's on the right track.''
 The tuberculosis world, Dr. Kochi said, used to be just as fragmented and hostile as the malaria field is now. Then, in the early 1990's, an explosion of multidrug-resistant cases everywhere from New York City to Peru to Siberia forced the advent of a new paradigm: four-drug cocktails, taken daily for six months, always under the eye of a nurse or someone else appointed to oversee treatment, even an imam or a faith-healer. 
 Under Dr. Kochi's leadership, countries were urged to diagnose and treat in standard ways (sputum smears instead of chest X-rays, for example, or four cheap antibiotics instead of exotic drugs and pulmonary surgery). Drug companies were asked to standardize products so each patient could be handed a box with six months' worth of pills. As a result, some partners, like tuberculosis hospitals and makers of the old BCG vaccine, were very unhappy. 
 Malaria, he said, will need a similar shift, because everything is wrong with the efforts to fight it: lax counting of cases, mixed messages on which medicines to use, counterfeit drugs, expensive consultants, slothful national governments, weak international leadership.
 The war on malaria -- in theory more winnable than the war on AIDS because a cure exists -- is instead being lost, Dr. Kochi says. In the 1960's, malaria was considered potentially eradicable: DDT and chloroquine, a synthetic form of quinine, had been invented, and much of the tropics were under colonial rulers who, whatever their other faults, were good at killing mosquitoes.
 Since then, DDT has been withdrawn because of its environmental damage, chloroquine and its successor, Fansidar, have become all but useless and the health systems in most of Africa and parts of Asia and Latin America have collapsed.
 The body count is now at least one million a year, most of them children and pregnant women. There are 350 million cases of malaria each year; people may catch it repeatedly in hot seasons and be too weak to work, so it cripples rural economies.
 Dr. Lee Jong Wook, the W.H.O. secretary general who died of a stroke last month on the eve of the organization's annual assembly, was about to concede as much.
 ''Clearly, things are not going well with malaria control,'' the draft of the speech he was to give to the world's health ministers said. ''We accept our responsibility for this. Now is not the time for shyness. W.H.O. will exercise much greater leadership in malaria control.''
 Dr. Kochi, who had been appointed by Dr. Lee six months earlier, was already proving combative.
 In January, he attacked the drug industry, naming 18 companies that were selling artemisinin in single-pill form, and giving them 90 days to stop. Monotherapy encourages resistance, and if artemisinin was lost, he said, ''it will be at least 10 years before a drug that good is discovered -- basically, we're dead.''
 If the companies refused to conform, he said, he would disrupt sales of all their drugs by getting the W.H.O. to refuse to certify any drug they made for poor countries. 
 Executives spluttered, saying they would not be blackmailed, that there was no documented resistance to artemisinin yet and that they had to supply whatever African governments asked for or their rivals would. Dr. Kochi promptly compared that to supplying heroin addicts with whatever they asked for.
 ''He's a breath of fresh air,'' said Amir Attaran, a biologist and lawyer at the University of Ottawa who has accused the W.H.O., the World Bank and the Global Fund to Fight Aids, TB and Malaria of squandering millions on old, useless drugs.
 ''You need to talk tough,'' he added. ''There has been absolute incoherence on fundamental issues.'' 
 Dr. Attaran, a longtime W.H.O. critic, also praised Dr. Kochi for being one of the first at the agency to realize that AIDS could be treated in Africa with standard regimens of cheap drugs and simple blood tests, instead of Western-level care costing tens of thousands of dollars a year. 
 In the 90 days before his deadline expired, Dr. Kochi met with generic drug-makers, many of whom are trying to shift from duplicating Western drugs to researching new ones. He told them, he said, that they would face a public relations fiasco if they made malaria worse.
 Caroline Jansen, a member of the family that owns Dafra Pharma, a Belgian company that supplies about 25 percent of Africa's private market for malaria drugs, said her company had agreed to stop selling monotherapy and was developing pills mixing artemisinin with lumefantrine, amodiaquine and other drugs.
 Told that Dr. Kochi called Dafra ''bad guys'' and that he was waiting to confirm their compliance because he didn't ''trust them,'' she expressed surprise, saying: ''I understand he had the same attitude about TB -- he's blunt and not very nice. But using a strong hand is probably the best way to get this thing done.''
 When the 90 days were up, Dr. Kochi said all the big companies had changed their policies. ''That war is over,'' he boasted. ''We won.'' 
 But he had also learned of the existence of 22 more small companies and had started warning them: ''Don't come in the back door and try to fill the gap.'' 
 Whether he can enforce that remains to be seen. The malaria market in poor countries is a mess: many tiny shops sell pills without prescriptions, and counterfeits are common. Chloroquine is still widely sold because it reduces fevers as aspirin does; patients briefly feel better, but then die of anemia.
 In April, Dr. Kochi targeted the Global Fund, through which rich countries buy AIDS, malaria and TB drugs for poor ones. He accused it of ignoring W.H.O. rules forbidding artemisinin monotherapy and buying from suppliers that fail W.H.O. standards. In May, he displayed the reply he got, which he dismissed as ''excuses -- a lot of 'but, but, but ' '' In June, he announced that the fund had changed it policies. 
 Next he wants to change other weapons in the arsenal. 
 For example, he wants to standardize mosquito nets so that, instead of a welter of competing styles that must be home-dunked in pesticide, a few makers of factory-coated nets, which kill insects for years longer, are left to compete on price. He dismisses ''social marketing,'' in which nets are branded and sold cheaply instead of being given away, as with an early Bush administration policy that flopped. And, despite the objections of environmentalists, he wants DDT sprayed inside huts to kill mosquitoes where they rest on walls as they wait for dark.
 He is lobbying the governments of poor countries, asking them to ban monotherapy, and lobbying Congress for more aid.
 Senator Tom Coburn, a conservative Oklahoma Republican who took up malaria as a cause and has demanded that taxpayer dollars be spent on drugs and nets rather than consultants, said he was ''very impressed'' on meeting Dr. Kochi.
 ''He's not abrasive compared to me,'' Senator Coburn, who is also a doctor, said. ''A million people are going to die this year. What's more important -- having a politically correct strategy or a public health strategy that works?''
 Dr. Kochi got his start in public health in 1975 when the Japanese Health Ministry asked for a volunteer to run a tuberculosis project in Afghanistan, and later worked in Myanmar. For interviews, he dresses informally: tie, jeans, no public-relations assistant. His biggest drawback may be his accent -- he can make an off-the-cuff impolitic crack in idiomatic English, but then has to go through the agony of repeating it three times to be understood.
 He did not want the malaria post, he said. He was ''semi-retired and playing a lot of golf'' as a W.H.O. adviser in New York, and he had a good reputation for his tuberculosis work. 
 ''Now, if I fail in malaria,'' he said, ''people only remember that.''
 Dr. Lee, he said, gave him two orders: ''Fix malaria, and don't create a Unmalaria.'' (The second reference was a joking dig at Unaids, the United Nations agency that is W.H.O.'s partner in fighting Aids and rival for funds, experts and glory.) 
 With Dr. Lee's sudden death, Dr. Kochi was asked, can he keep his job despite his sometimes prickly personality and the usual W.H.O. infighting?
 ''We'll see,'' he said. ''It will take till November to choose a new director. But I don't pick fights I can't win. Maybe if I achieve results, they'll let me stay. Or let me go back to playing golf.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday, profiling Dr. Arata Kochi, the new chief of the World Health Organization's campaign against malaria, referred imprecisely to the pesticide DDT, which can kill the mosquitoes that spread the disease. Its use has been banned in many countries for environmental reasons; it has not been withdrawn entirely.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A BATTLE FOR LIVES -- Top, a home in Mozambique is fumigated for mosquitoes. Above, malaria patients crowd a hospital in India. Below, Dr. Arata Kochi, the new chief of the W.H.O's global malaria program. (Photo by Rupak De Chowdhuri/Reuters)
(Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); TUBERCULOSIS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); PESTICIDES (78%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (78%); DRUG RESISTANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); RADIOLOGY (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); VACCINES (67%); CHRONIC & INFECTIOUS DISEASE HOSPITALS (67%); COUNTERFEITING (59%) Malaria; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Artemisinin (Drug); Frauds and Swindling; Counterfeit Merchandise ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Malaria

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%) World Health Organization

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil; Arata (Dr) Kochi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



562 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Steel Tries to Shed Its Smokestack Image

BYLINE: By Claudia H. Deutsch

 BODY:
ASK random Americans their opinion of the steel industry, and you'll probably hear about smoke-belching plants, sweaty laborers, rampant bankruptcies and sniveling whiners trying to get the government to protect their companies. 
 The American Iron and Steel Institute, the industry's main trade association, commissioned research asking just that question, and discovered that even well-educated, not-so-average Washingtonians had a pretty dismal view of steel.
That disdain truly irks the institute's members. Today's steel industry, they insist -- with a fair degree of justification -- is characterized by squeaky-clean, profitable plants controlled by computers, which are in turn controlled by well-educated engineers. But so far, the industry has done a terrible job of selling its new reality to the public.
 The result, steel executives complain, is that policy makers and regulators -- the people with the final say on trade laws, energy policies, research subsidies and other rules by which steel companies live and die -- have not noticed the metamorphosis. 
 ''We've had a pretty phenomenal rejuvenation, yet the perception is still of shuttered plants, bankruptcies and a Rust Bowl industry that is in terminal decline,'' said Louis L. Schorsch, chief executive of Mittal Steel USA and chairman of the steel institute. The steel makers have finally had it. The industry, under the auspices of the institute, has earmarked $1.2 million this year and $2.1 million in 2007 for a campaign to reposition steel-making as a vibrant and crucial part of the American economy. 
 The campaign is running exclusively in Washington and will not use any television spots. But radio ads will run on four District of Columbia stations and banner ads will run on Web sites like Washingtonpost.com, Rollcall.com and NationalJournal.com; print ads will run in Roll Call, The Hill, Express, The Washington Post's free paper and other papers and magazines widely read on Capitol Hill.
 In July and September, the ads will appear as backlighted posters in the Metro stations most frequented by Washington aides and staff members.
 The radio spots are pretty straightforward. In the first -- others are still in the making -- a pleasant female voice calls steel ''America's job engine,'' and stresses the industry's vitality. The print ads, too, will offer no-nonsense text and statistics and will invite readers to visit www.steel.org to learn more. Each will include the tag line, ''The New Steel. Feel the Strength.''
 But the print ads are also rife with word play and strong imagery. ''The competition for attention, be it your mother's or a policy maker's, is gruesome, so we have to engage people's imagination before laying out a litany of facts,'' said Gail Anne Grosso, executive vice president of Blue Worldwide, the Edelman unit that is handling the campaign. 
 The first ad, headlined ''The Backbone of America,'' shows a man's back, with the spine replaced with a steel girder. The text notes that the industry generates 1.2 million jobs, contributes $350 billion to the economy and has more than tripled productivity since the early 1980's. 
 The second, titled ''The Clean Little Secret,'' shows the reflection of trees and water in a shiny steel widget and a stylized stick figure dropping steel into a recycling basket. The copy notes that three-fourths of American steel is recycled, and documents the industry's reduction in energy use and harmful emissions. 
 Blue Worldwide is putting finishing touches on an ad that will highlight steel's high-tech operations (''The Brains Behind the Brawn'') and another that will show steel used in such disparate applications as a Frank Gehry building and an auto assembly line (''America's Job Engine Is Made of Steel''). Ms. Grosso said other ads were in progress that emphasized the steel industry's role as a strategic national asset. 
 ''We want to be sure that Congress realizes that this industry deserves a level playing field,'' she said. 
 For now, Blue plans to run each ad for two months, but Ms. Grosso stressed that this ''is not set in stone.'' Neither is the ultimate number of ads the agency will generate. 
 ''We will keep our fingers on the public pulse,'' she said. ''If Congress is considering a bill dealing with steel from India, or if some steel issue comes into public consciousness, we'll be nimble in our response.''
 Marketing gurus give a thumbs-up to the campaign, as far as it goes. But many say it must go further to do much good. 
 ''The visuals are stunning, and saying to Washington, 'Look at me, I'm not rusting anymore' is a good first step,'' said Allen P. Adamson, managing director for the brand consulting firm Landor Associates. ''But they need to hit the investor audience, the industrial buyers and their own employees too. And they need tangible proof points -- real companies doing things differently and real projects using American steel.'' 
 And woe to them, others say, if any of their claims are overblown. 
 ''They're offering a lot of information, so the campaign doesn't strike me as spin,'' said Gary Armstrong, a professor of marketing at the Kenan-Flagler Business School of the University of North Carolina. ''But if they use images and numbers to pull the steel wool over our eyes, it could backfire.'' 
 In fact, the numbers do include at least a modicum of spin. For example, the industry itself employs 165,000 people -- a pretty steep drop from the 215,000 in 1990 and 450,000 in 1980. 
 But the institute cites research showing that each steel job generates seven jobs elsewhere -- hence the 1.2 million figure. And, it notes that it takes fewer than 2.5 hours of work to produce a ton of steel today, down from nearly 9 hours in 1980, so the job drop is a sign of health rather than decline. 
 The institute expects that viral marketing will get the word out well beyond Washington. It has already sent copies of the ads to member companies, most of which will post them around plants and perhaps show them to local news media. And the $33 billion merger between Mittal Steel and Arcelor has put a spotlight on the modern face of overseas steel, which makes it even more likely that analysts who cover the steel industry will see the institute's campaign as a sign that North American companies are being proactive in their marketing. 
 As Nancy Gravatt, the institute's vice president of communications, put it, ''Considering the budgetary limitations, this is the way to get the best bang for our buck.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Blue Worldwide created the campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (86%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (86%); RADIO ADVERTISING (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (69%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%) Steel and Iron; Advertising and Marketing; Radio; Computers and the Internet; United States Economy; Steel and Iron

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (84%) American Iron and Steel Institute; Blue Worldwide (Ad Agency)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (55%); MT (PAR) (55%); MT (NYSE) (55%); MT (AMS) (55%); WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



563 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Show Unexpectedly Strong Rise 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes rose in May, surprising economists who had forecast that housing would slow because of rising mortgage rates.
 The Commerce Department reported Monday that sales of new single-family homes increased 4.6 percent in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.234 million units. But the median price of homes sold declined -- to $235,300, a drop of 4.3 percent from the April sales price. 
Analysts are still looking for sales of both new and existing homes to fall about 10 percent this year as rising mortgage rates crimp demand. The lowest mortgage rates in four decades helped propel sales to five consecutive annual records.
 The 4.6 percent increase pushed the sales rate to the highest level since December. It came after increases of 5.9 percent in April and 7.3 percent in March. The previous months' increases were helped by unusually mild weather.
 For May, sales were up in all parts of the country except the Northeast, where they declined 7.9 percent, to an annual rate of 58,000 units.
 Sales were up 6 percent in the South, to an annual rate of 669,000. Sales rose 5.3 percent in the West, to an annual rate of 317,000 units, and increased 2.7 percent in the Midwest, to an annual rate of 190,000 units.
 The increase in sales in May reduced the number of unsold new homes at the end of the month to 556,000, compared with the record of 560,000 at the end of April. It would take 5.5 months to exhaust the current inventory of homes at the May sales pace.
 Economists say the huge backlog of unsold homes will put further downward pressure on prices in coming months. 
 In keeping with the economic data, the Lennar Corporation, one of the nation's largest home builders, said Monday that its second-quarter profit surged 33 percent on sharply higher sales. But the company, which is based in Miami, cut its full-year earnings outlook on an anticipated slowdown of orders.
 Lennar's second-quarter earnings rose to $324.7 million, or $2 a share, from $243.5 million, or $1.48 a share, in the year-earlier period. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected earnings of $1.85 a share on sales of $3.87 billion.
 Quarterly revenue rose 56 percent, to $4.58 billion from $2.93 billion in the year-earlier period as home sales climbed 53 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sales of new single-family homes increased in May from April, but the median price of those homes sold declined 4.3 percent, to $235,300. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)Graph: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks annual pace of new private homes sold during each month since 2005.May: + 4.6%April: +5.9March: +7.3(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); WEATHER (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Company Reports; Housing

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department; Lennar Corp

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



564 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; ONLINE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words

 BODY:

ONLINE: DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook. 


VICTIMS OF A COAL BOOM -- As coal powers China's sizzling economy, thousands of acres of land are literally sinking because of the ravages of underground coal mining. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

SCREENS -- Virginia Heffernan's blog on Web video and media convergence is at nytimes.com/technology.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, an onshore oil and natural gas driller, said that federal regulators were investigating whether securities laws were violated in the embezzlement of $77.8 million by a former chief financial officer. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

WALGREEN POSTED a 14.2 percent rise in quarterly profit to $469.2 million, or 46 cents a share, in the quarter that ended May 31, aided by higher sales of prescription medications. (REUTERS)

TOYS ''R'' US said the president of its United States stores division, John Barbour, was terminated ''without cause.'' (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (79%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); COAL MINING (72%); UNDERGROUND MINING (72%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: PTEN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (57%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



565 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Iraq Take Ramadi A Neighborhood at a Time 

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: RAMADI, Iraq, June 26 

 BODY:
The 120-millimeter mortar shell landed with a crash in the middle of the new American-Iraqi outpost on Monday, hurling foot-long shards of metal and puncturing the chest of a young American soldier. 
 ''What's the condition of the casualty?'' Col. Sean MacFarland asked, as a team of medics put the wounded soldier into a Humvee and raced to a field hospital.
''He stopped breathing, sir,'' Capt. Michael Bajema replied. 
 A couple of minutes passed. 
 ''What's his condition?'' Colonel MacFarland asked. 
 ''Still no breathing, sir'' said another officer who was manning a radio. 
 The soldier died. He was young, popular among his comrades, and the sixth American from the First Brigade of the First Armored Division to be killed in Ramadi since the unit arrived three weeks ago. 
 In the street, in the place where the soldier fell, lay a knife, a sock and a bloodstained American boot. 
 American and Iraqi soldiers pushed deep into the heart of this contested city on Monday, the latest step in their plan to regain control of Ramadi from guerrillas and to hold onto it. The operation began late Sunday night, when about 400 American and Iraqi soldiers advanced into the west side of downtown, quickly taking over a number of houses and converting them into a small military base. 
 Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, has bedeviled American forces for months, making itself the toughest city in the most violent of Iraqi regions. Whole city blocks here look like a scene from some post-apocalyptic world: row after row of buildings shot up, boarded up, caved in, tumbled down. 
 Many neighborhoods are out of the control of either the American or Iraqi government forces; insurgents hold sway. In some areas, it is hard to spot any Iraqi police officers -- or any civilians or cars. Amid talk of timetables for reducing the number of American troops in Iraq, military commanders are not contemplating reducing the number in this part of the country.
 But rather than assaulting the city frontally, as the Americans did in Falluja in November 2004 -- destroying it in the process -- American commanders have decided on a softer and more deliberate approach. This time, they have ringed Ramadi with thousands of American and Iraqi troops, and have begun to reclaim the city, not in one sudden attack, but neighborhood by neighborhood. 
 Instead of leaving after the shooting stops -- as the Americans have been forced to do in other Iraqi cities -- the Americans plan to leave behind garrisons of American and Iraqi troops at various points throughout the city. For the first time, they say, they believe they have the manpower to make the strategy work. The combat outpost the Americans and Iraqis started building on Monday morning was the fifth one to go up this month on the southern edge of the city. 
 Central to the strategy, American commanders say, is the decision to commit significant numbers of Iraqi troops who can hold the neighborhoods after the Americans do most of the work of pacification. That, the American commanders hope, will make the city safe enough for its shattered economy to renew itself and for Iraqi police officers to feel secure enough to start showing up for work. 
 ''I'm a realist,'' Colonel MacFarland said. ''I know we are not going to be here long enough to realize that vision. The Iraqis will have to do that. What we can do is try to impart an irreversible momentum.'' 
 The challenges of doing even that became evident as the operation unfolded Monday. American soldiers -- trained, disciplined, with overwhelming firepower -- outnumbered their Iraqi counterparts. Officers here said there were about 250 American soldiers involved in the operation, and about 145 Iraqis. 
 Lt. Col. Raad Niaf Haroosh, the Iraqi battalion commander, said the 145 soldiers represented a fraction of the battalion's usual numbers. He said as many as 500 of his fellow soldiers -- most of them Sunni Muslims from Al Jabouri tribe -- stayed behind in Mosul rather than fight in Ramadi. 
 Colonel Raad is a Sunni, as are most of the Iraqi soldiers who made the trip with him. They seemed alert and disciplined as they moved about the area, in contrast to some Iraqi units that have accompanied American soldiers in the past. 
 He said many of the Iraqi soldiers who stayed behind feared they would create tribal vendettas if they came to Ramadi and killed other Iraqis. 
 ''They said, 'We don't want fight our own people,' '' he said. 
 As it was, Colonel Raad, who is a tribal sheik when out of uniform, said he got a warm reception from the Iraqis as he moved through the streets. He said he hoped the operation started on Sunday would begin to loosen the hold of insurgents on Ramadi. ''Insurgents have the bigger grip here,'' he said. 
 The problem he mentioned has been a recurring theme in the effort by the American military to hand off responsibility to Iraqi soldiers. The most difficult task has been to ask Iraqis to fight other Iraqis -- particularly if they are from the same ethnic or sectarian group. 
 Colonel MacFarland, commander of the brigade, and others say the Iraqi forces in Anbar are sufficient in number, and committed enough, to get the project under way. Two Iraqi divisions are now in Anbar -- with many of their units operating at about 60 percent of their planned strength -- putting their numbers somewhere near 12,000. Many of those Iraqi soldiers are also being assigned to other cities along the Euphrates River corridor, in cities like Hit and Qaim and Haditha that have also been heavily infiltrated by insurgents. 
 In a series of military operations last year, American marines rolled into a number of those cities in search of insurgents, only to find that the guerrillas had often melted away. When the marines moved on, the insurgents often returned. 
 One thing that seemed clear on Monday was that however small the numbers of Iraqi soldiers were, their presence was far more palatable to local residents than that of the Americans. Iraqi soldiers passed out a letter, written in unvarnished Arabic prose by Colonel Raad, to the ''noble people'' of the neighborhood, apologizing up front for the distress he and his men would cause. 
 ''Military necessity will force us to do things we don't want to do,'' he wrote, ''but what we have to do for the sake of your freedom, so you won't live in fear for the rest of your life.''
 ''It is my foremost intention to bring peace to you,'' he continued. ''We will stay until the job is complete, until your children can play without fear and your families can walk through the streets with honor.''
 One of the actions undertaken by the Americans and Iraqis was the expulsion of about 50 Iraqis from a three-block area where the new outpost was being set up. The Iraqi civilians were told to gather their things and go -- where to was not clear. The troops assumed that the local Iraqis, in this land linked by bloodlines, would be able to flee to their relatives. They promised compensation. The Iraqis wandered off into the streets, some of them carrying food and clothing.
 Saif al-Dulaimi, one of the expelled Iraqi men, expressed anger and suspicion toward the American soldiers, asserting, for instance, that they intended to stay in Iraq forever. Yet for the Iraqi soldiers walking alongside the Americans, Mr. Dulaimi offered a different opinion. 
 ''They are O.K.,'' he said, pausing in his journey. ''They are respectable.''
 Asked where he would go, he said: ''I don't know. I don't want money. I want my home.'' 
 As far as military operations go, the one that unfolded Monday was relatively bloodless. There was at least one Iraqi casualty, a suspected insurgent, killed by Navy Seals in the early hours of the operation. His body lay at the edge of a street, inside a black body bag.
 Then there was the American soldier who died on the way to the hospital. He was not easily forgotten by his comrades.
 ''We paid a price today,'' Colonel MacFarland said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi civilians carried their belongings yesterday as they left their neighborhood in Ramadi, where American and Iraqi forces will set up a base. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SHOOTINGS (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%) Iraq; Ramadi (Iraq); Anbar Province (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



566 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: 'Breathtaking' Waste and Fraud in Hurricane Aid

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
Among the many superlatives associated with Hurricane Katrina can now be added this one: it produced one of the most extraordinary displays of scams, schemes and stupefying bureaucratic bungles in modern history, costing taxpayers up to $2 billion.
 A hotel owner in Sugar Land, Tex., has been charged with submitting $232,000 in bills for phantom victims. And roughly 1,100 prison inmates across the Gulf Coast apparently collected more than $10 million in rental and disaster-relief assistance.
There are the bureaucrats who ordered nearly half a billion dollars worth of mobile homes that are still empty, and renovations for a shelter at a former Alabama Army base that cost about $416,000 per evacuee. 
 And there is the Illinois woman who tried to collect federal benefits by claiming she watched her two daughters drown in the rising New Orleans waters. In fact, prosecutors say, the children did not exist. 
 The tally of ignoble acts linked to Hurricane Katrina, pulled together by The New York Times from government audits, criminal prosecutions and Congressional investigations, could rise because the inquiries are under way. Even in Washington, a city accustomed to government bloat, the numbers are generating amazement. 
 ''The blatant fraud, the audacity of the schemes, the scale of the waste -- it is just breathtaking,'' said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and chairwoman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
 Such an outcome was feared soon after Congress passed the initial hurricane relief package, as officials at the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the American Red Cross acknowledged that their systems were overwhelmed and tried to create new ones on the fly.
 ''We did, in fact, put into place never-before-used and untested processes,'' Donna M. Dannels, acting deputy director of recovery at FEMA, told a House panel this month. ''Clearly, because they were untested, they were more subject to error and fraud.''
 Officials in Washington say they recognized that a certain amount of fraud or improper payments is inevitable in any major disaster, as the government's mission is to rapidly distribute emergency aid. They typically send out excessive payments that represent 1 percent to 3 percent of the relief distributed, money they then ask people to give back.
 What was not understood until now was just how large these numbers could become.
 The estimate of up to $2 billion in fraud and waste represents nearly 11 percent of the $19 billion spent by FEMA on Hurricanes Katrina and Rita as of mid-June, or about 6 percent of total money that has been obligated.
 ''This started off as a disaster-relief program, but it turned into a cash cow,'' said Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas, a former federal prosecutor and now chairman of a House panel investigating storm waste and fraud.
 The waste ranged from excessive loads of ice to higher-than-necessary costs on the multibillion-dollar debris removal effort. Some examples are particularly stark.
 The $7.9 million spent to renovate the former Fort McClellan Army base in Anniston, Ala., included fixing up a welcome center, clinic and gymnasium, scrubbing away mold and installing a protective fence between the site and a nearby firing range. But when the doors finally opened, only about 10 people showed up each night, leading FEMA to shut down the shelter within one month. 
 The mobile homes, costing $34,500 each, were supposed to provide temporary housing to hurricane victims. But after Louisiana officials balked at installing them inland, FEMA had no use for them. Nearly half, or about 10,000, of the $860 million worth of units now sit at an airfield in Arkansas, where FEMA is paying $250,000 a month to store them.
 The most recent audit came from the Government Accountability Office, which this month estimated that perhaps as much as 21 percent of the $6.3 billion given directly to victims might have been improperly distributed.
 ''There are tools that are available to get money quickly to individuals and to get disaster relief programs running quickly without seeing so much fraud and waste," said Gregory D. Kutz, managing director of the forensic audits unit at the G.A.O. ''But it wasn't really something that FEMA put a high priority on. So it was easy to commit fraud without being detected.''
 The most disturbing cases, said David R. Dugas, the United States attorney in Louisiana, who is leading a storm antifraud task force for the Justice Department, are those involving government officials accused of orchestrating elaborate scams.
 One Louisiana Department of Labor clerk, Wayne P. Lawless, has been charged with issuing about 80 fraudulent disaster unemployment benefit cards in exchange for bribes of up to $300 per application. Mr. Lawless, a state contract worker, announced to one man he helped apply for hurricane benefits that he wanted to ''get something out of it,'' the affidavit said. His lawyer did not respond to several messages left at his office and home for comment.
 ''The American people are the most generous in the world in responding to a disaster,'' Mr. Dugas said. ''We won't tolerate people in a position of public trust taking advantage of the situation.''
 Two other men, Mitchell Kendrix of Memphis and Paul Nelson of Lisbon, Me., have pleaded guilty in connection with a scheme in Mississippi in which Mr. Kendrix, a representative for the Army Corps of Engineers, took $100 bribes in exchange for approving phantom loads of hurricane debris from Mr. Nelson.
 In New Orleans, two FEMA officials, Andrew Rose and Loyd Holliman, both of Colorado, have pleaded guilty to taking $20,000 in bribes in exchange for inflating the count on the number of meals a contractor was serving disaster workers. And a councilman in St. Tammany Parish, La., Joseph Impastato, has also been charged with trying to extort $100,000 from a debris removal contractor. Mr. Impastato's lawyer, Karl J. Koch, said he was confident his client would be cleared.
 A program set up by the American Red Cross and financed by FEMA that provided free hotel rooms to Hurricane Katrina victims also resulted in extraordinary abuse and waste, investigators have found.
 First, because the Red Cross did not keep track of the hundreds of thousands of recipients -- they were only required to provide a ZIP code from the hurricane zone to check in -- FEMA frequently sent rental assistance checks to people getting free hotel rooms, the G.A.O. found.
 In turn, some hotel managers or owners, like Daniel Yeh, of Sugar Land, exploited the lack of oversight, investigators have charged, and submitted bills for empty rooms or those occupied by paying guests or employees. Mr. Yeh submitted $232,000 in false claims, his arrest affidavit said. His lawyer, Robert Bennett, said that Mr. Yeh was mentally incompetent and that the charges should be dismissed. 
 And Tina M. Winston of Belleville, Ill., was charged this month with claiming that her two daughters had died in the flooding in New Orleans. But prosecutors said that the children never existed and that Ms. Winston was living in Illinois at the time of the storm. The public defender representing Ms. Winston did not respond to a request for comment.
 Charities also were vulnerable to profiteers. In Burbank, Calif., a couple has been charged with collecting donations outside a store by posing as Red Cross workers. In Bakersfield, Calif., 75 workers at a Red Cross call center, their friends and relatives have been charged in a scheme to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars in relief.
 To date, Mr. Dugas said, federal prosecutors have filed hurricane-related criminal charges against 335 individuals. That represents a record number of indictments from a single hurricane season, Justice Department officials said. Separately, Red Cross officials say they are investigating 7,100 cases of possible fraud.
 Congressional investigators, meanwhile, have referred another 7,000 cases of possible fraud to prosecutors, including more than 1,000 prison inmates who collected more than $12 million in federal aid, much of it in the form of rental assistance.
 Investigators also turned up one individual who had received 26 federal disaster relief payments totaling $139,000, using 13 Social Security numbers, all based on claims of damages for bogus addresses. 
 Thousands more people may be charged before the five-year statute of limitations on most of these crimes expires, investigators said.
 There are bigger cases of government waste or fraud in United States history. The Treasury Department, for example, estimated in 2005 that Americans in a single year had improperly been granted perhaps $9 billion in unjustified claims under the Earned-Income Tax Credit. The Department of Health and Human Services in 2001 estimated that nearly $12 billion in Medicare benefit payments in the previous year had been based on improper or fraudulent complaints.
 Auditors examining spending in Iraq also have documented hundreds of millions in questionable spending or abuse. But Mr. Kutz of the accountability office said that in all of his investigative work, he had never encountered the range of abuses he has seen with Hurricane Katrina.
 R. David Paulison, the new FEMA director, said in an interview on Friday that much work had already been done to prevent such widespread fraud, including automated checks to confirm applicants' identities.
 ''We will be able to tell who you are, if you live where you said you do,'' Mr. Paulison said.
 But Senator Collins said she had heard such promises before, including after Hurricane Frances in 2004 in which FEMA gave out millions of dollars in aid to Miami-Dade County residents, even though there was little damage.
 Mr. Kutz said he too was not convinced that the agency was ready.
 ''I still don't think they fully understand the depth of the problem,'' he said.


(Sources by Goverment Accountability Office, Justice Department)(pg. A13)

GRAPHIC: Photos: FEMA spends $250,000 a month to store about 10,000 empty mobile homes at an airfield in Hope, Ark. (Photo by Robert King/Polaris)(pg. A1)
 Gregory D. Kutz, a G.A.O. official, testified before a House panel about fraud and held up one of the $2,000 debit cards given out by FEMA. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. A13)Chart/Map: ''Storm Aid Crimes . . .''The Justice Department has charged 335 people in 14 states for hurricane-related fraud:ALA.: 16LA.: 94TEX.: 34FLA.: 30MISS.: 43PA.: 2ILL.: 2MO.: 2ARK. 5OKLA.: 5COLO.: 4CALIF.: 78GA.: 10(Map of the United States highlighting the aforementioned states.)By accusation240: Submitted fraudulent information to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for assistance78: Committed fraud against the Red Cross9: Fraudulently solicited charitable donations8: Public officials who committed fraud and hotel owners who submitted false claimsTotal charged: 335. . . and Examples of OversightFEMA paid $600 million to $1.4 billion in improper assistance claims because it failed to verify registration information, in cases like these:Paid millions of dollars to more than 1,000 registered victims who used names and Social Security numbers belonging to state and federal prisoners.Paid claims to addresses that did not exist and addresses where the registrant did not live at the time of the disaster.Made rental assistance payments to people staying for free at hotels paid for by FEMA because the agency did not require hotels to collect information on individuals using them.Made multiple Payments to thousands of registered victims. About 5,000 people who received the $2000 debit cards for disaster aid also received the same benefit electronically or by check. Could not verify whether 750 debit cards, worth $1.5 million, actually went to victims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HISTORY (72%); AUDITS (72%); ARMIES (71%); ETHICS (61%); ARMED FORCES (55%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (94%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%) Federal Emergency Management Agency; American Red Cross; Government Accountability Office

PERSON: MICHAEL T MCCAUL (51%); SUSAN COLLINS (51%) Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



567 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Colorado U. Chancellor Advises Firing Author of Sept. 11 Essay

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER, June 26 

 BODY:
The interim chancellor at the University of Colorado said on Monday that Prof. Ward L. Churchill, whose comments about the victims of Sept. 11 prompted a national debate about the limits of free speech, should be fired for academic misconduct. 
 Professor Churchill, 58, was immediately relieved of his academic and research duties as a result of the chancellor's recommendation, but will continue as a paid professor pending a decision by the Board of Regents.
The chancellor, Phil DiStefano, emphasized in a news conference at the university's Boulder campus that Professor Churchill's essay about Sept. 11, in which he compared some World Trade Center victims to the Nazi henchman Adolf Eichmann, had nothing to do with the recommendation to dismiss him. 
 Mr. DiStefano said two committees had found evidence of serious misconduct in the professor's record, including plagiarism, misrepresentation of facts and fabrication of scholarly work.
 Professor Churchill's lawyer, David Lane, said that the professor's ultimate dismissal was now inevitable, and that retribution for politically unpopular speech was the real reason. A lawsuit against the university alleging violations of the professor's First Amendment rights is also inevitable, Mr. Lane said.
 ''It's window dressing,'' Mr. Lane said. ''They want to make it look legitimate so then they can fire him and say, 'Look, it had nothing to do with free speech.' ''
 Professor Churchill, a tenured faculty member in the department of ethnic studies since 1991, did not respond to e-mail and phone messages.
 He wrote in an essay shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks that many of those who had been killed were not innocent victims but were part of a machine of American foreign and economic policy that the world was rebelling against. But it was the essay's incendiary tone, especially the comparison of dead office workers in New York City to Eichmann, who helped carry out the Holocaust, that prompted the firestorm.
 Mr. DiStefano said in a telephone interview that if Professor Churchill appealed Monday's recommendation to the Faculty Senate Committee on Privilege and Tenure, the committee had 90 days to agree or disagree, though it could ask for more time. The university's president, he said, would then present the matter to the Regents for final disposition.
 Mr. Lane said that the appeal to the committee would be filed, but that the final word would happen only in a court of law.
 ''We'll let a real jury decide what is what,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOOL CHEATING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); PLAGIARISM (77%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (77%); JURY TRIALS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); HOLOCAUST (69%); WRITERS (69%); HIJACKING (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Suits and Litigation; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Terrorism; Colleges and Universities; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%) University of Colorado

PERSON: Kirk Johnson; Philip P Distefano; Ward L (Prof) Churchill; David Lane

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



568 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: Debate on Russia and Iraq Follows Killing of 4 Diplomats

BYLINE: COMPILED by ALEXANDER NURNBERG

 BODY:
TODAY'S TOP STORIES
 "By all appearances, the irrevocable has happened," the Russian Foreign Ministry said Monday, announcing the death of four Russian diplomats who were taken hostage earlier this month in Iraq.
On Sunday, Al-Jazeera television reported that the four men, all of whom worked at the Russian embassy in Baghdad, had been killed by their captors, an Al Qaeda affiliate group called the Mujahideen Shura Council. A video posted on a militant Web site showed what it said was the execution of three men. But "it took Moscow almost 24 hours to wake up to the obvious," Kommersant wrote. 
 As papers had reported throughout the month, the terrorists demanded that Russia withdraw its troops from Chechnya and remove all Muslims incarcerated in its prisons. Opinion was divided on the terrorists' motives, however.
 The response in several newspapers, as well as from the government and various commentators, suggested that the "tragedy," as most newspapers called it Monday, had occurred because of the instability in Iraq. Many lamented the fact that the diplomats had been killed in a country occupied by foreign forces, after a war which Russia had fervently opposed. 
 Lyubov Sliska, the First Deputy Speaker of Russia's elected house of parliament, was quoted by Vremya Novostei as saying: "The burden of responsibility for the execution of these Russian diplomats lies on those who occupied Iraq. This crime is on their conscience."
 Last week Aliya Agliulina, whose brother the chef at the Baghdad embassy and himself of Muslim faith was one of the hostages, made an appeal on Al-Jazeera television begging for the four men to be released. "As a Muslim, just like all Russian Muslims, it gives me great pain to see the suffering of the Iraqi people. But Russian diplomats are not responsible for what is going on." 
 "Previously, Russians working in Iraq were treated respectfully," Rossiskaya Gazeta, the government-controlled newspaper, wrote. It cited an incident in 2004 when two Russian construction workers were captured by Iraqi militants, but released a week later. "Moreover, the hostage-takers apologized, saying that they had been mistaken and had thought that the Russians were American civilian specialists." 
 A commentary in Izvestia agreed that Russia had never been "an enemy of Iraq" but asked: "Isn't that precisely the reason for capturing Russians?" It said that Al Qaeda was waging a war against "infidels" not against Iraq's invaders, which meant that "we are the enemy just as much as the Americans are." 
 "Given the growing instability in Iraq," Vremya Novostei wrote, "it will be hard to find these criminals. And it will be even harder to imagine that this will be seriously attempted by the local authorities or the United States, which is losing control of the situation."
 Izvestia added: "There will now be people who say: look what has become of our dalliances with Muslims we shouldn't be negotiating with them, we should be..." The paper felt no need to end that sentence with specifics. "But this logic, as it happens, is very close to the logic of the people who organized this hostage-taking in Baghdad."
 MOSCOW LABELED WORLD'S PRICIEST CITY: An annual survey by Mercer Human Resource Consulting, which evaluates the cost of living by such criteria as the price of an apartment, an international newspaper and a coffee, has named Moscow the most expensive city in the world.
 Several newspapers covered the story, but most pointed out the subjective nature of the poll. A senior researcher for Mercer said that the poll was supposed to reflect the cost of living not "for the city as a whole, but for the high-stepping expat community," according to the Moscow Times. A table comparing prices in various cities said the cost of a bus ride in Moscow was "not applicable," because in the Russian capital, according to the researcher, "most expatriates wouldn't consider taking a bus." 
 Izvestia pointed out that the same Mercer group had published a report earlier this year ranking Moscow amongst the world's worst cities for standard of living. But "the image of the Russian capital as the most expensive and most uncomfortable city in the world works to the economy's favor," the paper wrote. "Moscow is the most financially attractive city for foreign specialists, who receive compensation for the 'nuisance'. And meanwhile foreigners spend the majority of their salary while they are still in Moscow."
 IN OTHER NEWS
 KOMMERSANT
 PUTIN TRIES TO REPATRIATE RUSSIAN DIASPORA: As several newspapers reported Tuesday, a presidential order was published Monday announcing a new program to attract Russians and former Soviet citizens who live abroad to return to Russia, in a move to thwart the problem of falling birth rates and population. The program would pay for travel to Russia, would guarantee housing and work in Russia, and would shorten the process for receiving Russian citizenship when needed. 
 VEDOMOSTI
 GAZPROM BUYS INTO ITS MAIN COMPETITOR: Gazprom announced Monday that it would buy a 20 percent stake in Novatek, Russia's second-largest gas company, at market price, which the newspaper says will be over 2 billion dollars. Gazprom will thereby have two seats on Novatek's eight-man board of directors, but the deal also states that Gazprom's share in the company can never be higher than 19.9 percent so as to avoid gas prices being controlled by the state. However, sources say that the deal means the present managers will lose their control over the company, and the newspaper notes also that another major shareholder, with 5.68 percent, is Vneshekonombank, a Russian state-controlled bank. A Gazprom employee said, "together, we will have a 25 percent stake" in Novatek, the paper reported.
 IZVESTIA
 VICE PREMIER TO WAGE WAR ON PIRACY: First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev invited cinematographers and the heads of Russia's top two television channels to discuss the problem of film piracy Monday. "The national film industry has only just got up onto its feet, and already there is a drain of viewers from cinemas," the paper writes, saying that most people watch films at home on pirated DVD's before they have even been released in movie theaters. Mr. Medvedev said that while punishment for piracy must be strengthened, one major company had succeeded in increasing its profits and cutting piracy by half, simply by reducing the price of its licensed DVD's. But cinematographers found the first suggestion "more to their taste." Nikita Mikhalkov, one of Russia's most famous filmmakers, said: "When a thief breaks into an apartment and steals a fur coat, he knows that he might get 4-5 years in prison, but when he breaks into the life of an artist and steals the most valuable thing?" 
 GORBACHEV SAYS THATCHER HAS BEEN SLANDERED: The BBC will show a fictionalized drama this week called 'Revolution!' that charts the failed attempt of Mark Thatcher, the son of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, to facilitate a coup against the government of Equatorial Guinea. In the drama, Baroness Thatcher herself is portrayed as "an old drunk, who downs one glass of whiskey after another," which Izvestia says "might inflict a new painful blow against the 80-year-old iron lady, who has recently undergone a few minor strokes and is suffering from memory loss." Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last Soviet leader, tells the paper that Lady Thatcher "does not deserve" the portrayal. Mr. Gorbachev says that he has "the warmest memories" of meetings with Lady Thatcher, and that "this is an honorable person who did a lot for her country and for the world." 
 VREMYA NOVOSTEI
 JURY SYSTEM REGULARLY CRITICIZED: Three years ago, a law came into effect permitting cases in Moscow to be tried by jury, instead of professional judges. (The system is in place in various national regions, but by no means all.) In these three years "judicial and political battles concerning this 'people's court' have started to flare up," the paper writes. "It tends to be the case that critics of the 'people's court' are angered first and foremost by the fact that a person's guilt is determined by the court, and not by them themselves, as it used to be in Soviet times... Some critics of the 'people's court', including famous politicians and civil servants, have recently even seemed to agree that it is as if juries are "acquitting blatant criminals" forgetting a fundamental principle of democracy, which, incidentally, is enshrined in the Russian Constitution, which holds that only a court can label a person a criminal." 
 ROMANOVS' BID TO REHABILITATE THE CZAR IS DENIED: The Romanov family, descended from Russia's last czar, Nicholas II, was turned down Monday by a Moscow court in a bid to have Nicholas and his immediate family, who were shot by Bolsheviks in 1918, named victims of political repression. The czar's family was killed in Yekaterinburg while that town was under threat from advancing Czech forces of the White Army, but nobody, judging by the declassified archives, claimed personal responsibility. (The paper reprints a famous telegram in which Lenin personally denied that the family was in danger.) How this confrontation between the imperial house and Russian justice will end, one can only guess," the paper writes, "because both the prosecutor's office and today's Russian courts can be directed not merely by the letter of the law, but also by political desirability." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RELIGION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



569 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Celebrities Now Give Thonx For Their Roots in the Bronx 

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
First came the rebuilding, then the arrival of artists and antique shops -- then the marketing campaign.
 Putting its own spin on celebrity image repair, the Bronx has stepped up a feel-good promotional push that includes radio spots, newspaper ads and billboards along roads from Boston to Washington in an attempt to boost the borough's poor, but rallying, image.
The primary goal is not to attract tourists, though visitors certainly would not be turned away, officials said, but to change the business community's negative perception of the Bronx -- a borough whose longtime unofficial slogan, ''Only the strong survive,'' is not exactly conducive to incubating business. 
 Among the Bronx natives who appear in the $200,000 campaign are the television host Regis Philbin, the mystery writer Mary Higgins Clark, the singer Valerie Simpson and the Yankees television broadcaster Michael Kay.
 ''Your team is turning around an entire borough,'' Mr. Philbin tells Bronx Borough President Adolfo Carrion Jr. in one radio spot. ''That's life changing.''
 ''You've noticed the recovery, then?'' Mr. Carrion asks.
 ''Hey, I'm from the Bronx,'' Mr. Philbin responds. ''I don't miss a thing.''
 The idea for the ad campaign was prompted by a study conducted by Fordham University graduate students that found a well of negative perceptions about the borough among business executives. Among the students' recommendations was marketing the Bronx in hopes of changing such views. 
 The campaign, now in its third year, is financed by several Bronx institutions featured in the ads, including the Yankees, the Bronx Zoo, Fordham University, the New York Botanical Garden, Jacobi Medical Center and Woodlawn Cemetery.
 ''There are some persistent stereotypes about a place called the Bronx that are no longer reality, and obviously, it is important to dispel those stereotypes,'' Mr. Carrion said.
 While the marketing campaign does not promote a slogan for the borough, Bronx boosters hope a positive spin will make old negative catchphrases -- from Ogden Nash's couplet, ''The Bronx? No Thonx,'' to Howard Cosell's declaration, ''Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx is Burning,'' to Bobby Bonilla's threat, ''I'll Show You the Bronx''-- go the way of the fortified crack house.
 A few years ago, the borough changed the phrase on its street wastebaskets from ''Don't dump on the Bronx'' to ''Beautiful Bronx.'' Mr. Carrion said an officially sanctioned slogan for the Bronx is being discussed. ''We are doing some internal soul searching,'' he said.
 These days, with plans for high-rise co-ops in the South Bronx moving forward, construction cranes have become the borough's new visual metaphor, replacing the window decals of the 1980's in which pictures of potted plants and drawn curtains were placed in the windows of abandoned buildings to give the appearance of a nonexistent domestic life. 
 While Bronx residents and natives were reflexively defensive about their borough for years, they now say they have reason for some old fashioned New York-style braggadocio. On the ''I Love the Bronx!'' Web site, for instance, the Bronx Tourism Council (yes, such a body exists) boasts, ''The Bronx is Up!''
 While crime and unemployment continue to fester, despite gentrification, promoters of the Bronx would rather talk about the new glass sculpture exhibit by Dale Chihuly at the botanical garden, or the new wild dogs at the Bronx Zoo. Or that the new criminal courthouse and the expansion of the Bronx Museum of the Arts are nearing completion. Or about seafood on City Island, the open-mike poetry series at the Downtown Bronx Bar & Cafe and the upcoming Tour de Bronx bicycle ride, or about the Yankees, of course, who have managed to win despite a raft of injuries. 
 Even Mr. Nash had second thoughts about the Bronx, and eventually tried to make amends. In 1964, 33 years after his original four-word poem was published, Mr. Nash wrote a letter to the dean of Bronx Community College apologizing -- sort of: 
 I can't seem to escape
 the sins of my smart-alec youth;
 Here are my amends. 
 I wrote those lines, ''The Bronx?
 No thonx'';
 I shudder to confess them. 
 Now I'm an older, wiser man
 I cry, ''The Bronx? God
 bless them!''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A poster put up in Metro-North Railroad trains recently extols the positive aspects of the Bronx. (Photo by The Bronx Tourism Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); WRITERS (72%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (54%); COCAINE (50%) Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (88%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (79%) Timothy Williams; Adolfo Jr (Boro Pres) Carrion; Regis Philbin; Valerie Simpson; Mary Higgins Clark

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Bronx (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



570 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 461 words

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:

8 P.M. (BET) BET AWARDS '06 -- Bring on the scorecards, and hunker down for a long evening. Jamie Foxx, ever the Renaissance man, has earned five nominations -- including best male R&B artist and best male actor -- for these awards honoring achievements by African-Americans and other members of minorities in music, sports and entertainment. But it's Damon Wayans, as host of this ceremony broadcast live from Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, who pulls off the evening's big coup: he'll present the humanitarian award to Harry Belafonte and the lifetime achievement award to the inimitable Chaka Khan. The festivities begin at 6 when ''106 and Park'' points its cameras at fabulosity radiating from the red carpet. And at 11, in ''The Black Carpet Lounge: BET Awards Post Show,'' the winners -- and we're guessing that means you, Mr. Foxx (above, with Mary J. Blige, also a nominee) -- will speak. 


7:30 P.M. (IFC) YO SOY BORICUA, PA'QUE TU LO SEPAS! In some sense, Puerto Ricans are neither here nor there. They are citizens of the United States but don't vote for the president. They travel without restriction between the island and the mainland, yet endure prejudice and economic oppression. So what makes them so darn proud? Inspired by the exuberance of the Puerto Rican Day Parade, the actress Rosie Perez, in her directorial debut, asks that question of members of the band Yerba Buena (above right) and others, while examining the complex history between the United States and its Caribbean commonwealth.

8 P.M. (Discovery Times) GUESTS OF THE AYATOLLAH -- It was the event that did in the Carter presidency, and yet just another bump along the gnarled road of relations between the United States and Iran. Parts 3 and 4 of this documentary based on Mark Bowden's book about the Iran hostage crisis examines President Jimmy Carter's authorization of an Army rescue mission and, at 9, negotiations as the 1980 presidential elections approached that led to the release of hostages only minutes after Ronald Reagan was sworn in.

9 P.M. (NBC) LAST COMIC STANDING -- Rise and shine. The comics get a surprise earlybird wake-up call to exhibit their wares on Adam Carolla's radio show. Turns out two don't catch the worm.

9 P.M. (13) ZIMBABWE: SHADOWS AND LIES -- Whither Zimbabwe? Once a model of independence and economic success, the country has slid into a quagmire of poverty and terror as its 82-year-old president, Robert Mugabe (above), has metamorphosed from liberation hero to Africa's longest-standing dictator. In this ''Frontline/World'' documentary, Alexis Bloom and Cassandra Herrman pose as tourists to meet secretly with opposition leaders, dissidents and people merely struggling to survive a country plunged into darkness and deceit. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Paul Drinkwater/NBC)
(Photo by Scott Pasfield/IFC)
 (Photo by Corbis/WGBH)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); PARADES & MARCHES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



571 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Arcelor's Chief Is Ousted From Mittal Partnership

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; Ian Austen contributed reporting from Ottawa for this article and Saritha Rai from Bangalore, India.

DATELINE: LUXEMBOURG, June 26 

 BODY:
The takeover of Arcelor by Mittal Steel claimed its first victim on Monday in the person of the chief executive of Arcelor, Guy Dolle, who used some of the toughest -- and some observers said insulting -- language during the five bruising months of negotiations for the deal. 
 Arcelor's chairman, Joseph Kinsch, who is keeping his position with the new company, said that Mr. Dolle would stay on until Arcelor selected a chief executive for the new Arcelor-Mittal. 
Mr. Dolle, who sat silently in the front row, hastily left the news conference where the deal for 26.5 billion euros ($33.4 billion) was announced, refusing to answer questions. 
 Privately, Mittal executives said Mr. Dolle's departure was needed if the companies were ever to work together. Mr. Dolle, 63, had described products from Mittal, a company with origins in India, as low-grade ''eau de cologne'' compared with ''perfume'' produced by Arcelor. 
 He had also described Mittal's shares as ''monkey money'' -- a French expression denoting something of little value, but one regarded by some as having racist overtones in the context of a deal with India-born Lakshmi Mittal, the founder of Mittal Steel.
 Usha Mittal, the wife of Mr. Mittal, who was on her second visit to Luxembourg, said ''any immature remarks do not disturb'' her husband. 
 Mr. Mittal, whose office is in London, pledged to keep Arcelor-Mittal based in Luxembourg, which he described as ''a country rightfully proud of its steel heritage on which its economy was built.'' Mittal has factories from Kazakhstan to the United States. 
 In India, Mittal's acqusition of Arcelor was heralded as an indication that India had arrived on the global business stage.
 ''Lakshmi Mittal's success will ensure that India's tricolor flag will be planted across the globe,'' said Venugopal N. Dhoot, chairman of the Videocon Group, a consumer products company with $3 billion in sales. ''Other Indian companies will be encouraged to step out and hunt for overseas assets.'' 
 The minister of commerce and industry, Kamal Nath, said that Sunday's merger ''demonstrates that India Inc's intellectual and entrepreneurial abilities are to be taken very seriously.''
 While Mr. Mittal has frequently emphasized that he is proud of his Indian roots, his steel empire has little stake in the Indian steel market.
 Until Mr. Mittal's acquisitions, Indian companies had made modest overseas asset purchases. Even the acquisitions by large Indian conglomerates like Tata, Birla and Reliance have been small.
 Mr. Kinsch was characteristically reserved on Monday, describing the merger as ''a reasonable marriage.'' 
 For the deal with Mittal to succeed, Arcelor shareholders must vote on Friday against an alternative offer by Severstal, a Russian steel maker controlled by Aleksei Mordashov. 
 Arcelor engaged Severstal as a so- called white knight to rescue Arcelor from Mittal's clutches in exchange for a stake of around 32 percent of Arcelor. 
 But some Arcelor shareholders spoke out against that transaction after they felt it was foisted on them without proper voting procedures, and that helped to push Arcelor managers to reconsider their opposition to a deal with Mittal. 
 Mr. Kinsch said the board would meet to reconsider the Russian offer only if Severstal agreed to buy 100 percent of Arcelor.
 ''I definitely rule out a three-way merger,'' Mr. Mittal said, explaining that there could be no place for Severstal in the management of the new company. 
 Both Mittal and Arcelor said they were optimistic about aligning their strategic goals -- including the need to do more business in China. 
 Concrete differences remain, however, including what to do about Dofasco, a Canadian steel maker that Mittal wants to sell but that Arcelor wants to keep. 
 ''We have agreed to disagree'' on the Dofasco issue, Mr. Mittal's son and chief financial officer, Aditya Mittal, said. 
 Gordon Forstner, a spokesman for Dofasco in Hamilton, Ontario, said the Canadian company was largely in the dark.
 ''Nothing has been decided,'' Mr. Forstner said. ''I don't think we're going to know for some time.''
 Dofasco, a leading supplier to the North American auto industry, was purchased earlier this year by Arcelor for 5.5 billion Canadian dollars.
 Shortly after Mittal started its hostile bid, Arcelor transferred ownership of Dofasco to a trust based in the Netherlands to make it difficult to shed the company after a merger.
 But on Monday, Arcelor made it clear that it still opposed shedding Dofasco. In a statement issued on Monday, ThyssenKrupp, the steel giant based in Germany, said that it still expected Mittal to sell it the Canadian company.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lakshmi Mittal, left, the founder of Mittal Steel, with Arcelor's chairman, Joseph Kinsch, who will stay on. (Photo by Geert Vanden Wijngaert/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); EURO (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%) Steel and Iron; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Steel and Iron

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (96%); ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Arcelor ; Mittal Steel

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (96%); MT (PAR) (96%); MT (NYSE) (96%); MT (AMS) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (96%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (96%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (85%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (85%)

PERSON: LAKSHMI N MITTAL (89%) Guy Dolle; Joseph Kinsch; Kamal (Min) Nath; James Kanter; Ian Austen; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (78%); KAZAKHSTAN (73%) India

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



572 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words

 BODY:

BILLIONS TO HELP FIGHT DISEASE -- Warren E. Buffett's $31 billion gift to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will help the foundation pursue its goal of curing the globe's 20 leading fatal diseases, Mr. Gates said, along with improving education. [A1.] 


SHARED VIEWS OF TWO BILLIONAIRES -- Bill Gates and Warren Buffett both have a disdain for inherited wealth and share the view that the capitalist system that has enriched them is not capable alone of addressing the root causes of poverty. [C1.]

GAME MAKER IS SUBPOENAED -- The video game publisher Take-Two Interactive said that it had received a grand jury subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney's office, seeking information about a range of its business practices dating back to 2001 and its inclusion of sexually explicit material in one of its games. A company spokesman said the district attorney had not told Take-Two whether it or any of its executives or directors were the focus of the inquiry. [C1.]

HEART DEVICES RECALLED -- Boston Scientific said that it was recalling 23,000 heart pacemakers and defibrillators and recommended that 27,000 patients who already have the devices in their chests consult their doctors. Market Place. [C1.]

PART OF VIOXX PAPER RETRACTED -- The simmering controversy over data from the 2004 clinical trial that caused Merck to stop selling Vioxx bubbled up again, as the New England Journal of Medicine retracted part of a paper it had published about the trial. [C13.]

FINDINGS ON FOOD AND DRUG LAW -- A 15-month inquiry by a top House Democrat has found that enforcement of food and drug laws declined sharply during the first five years of the Bush administration. [A15.]

EMISSIONS CASE ACCEPTED -- The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether the federal government is required to control vehicle emissions of carbon dioxide, the principal greenhouse gas that has been linked to global warming. [A14.]

35,000 TO LEAVE G.M. -- In an employee exodus that is one of the biggest ever, about 48,000 workers at General Motors and Delphi accepted early retirement or buyout offers. [C1.]

ANTI-PORNOGRAPHY EFFORT -- In the face of government pressure, a group of Internet companies is undertaking an effort to help combat child pornography online. [C3.]

SALES OF NEW HOMES INCREASE -- Sales of new homes rose in May, surprising economists who had been forecasting that housing would slow because of rising loan rates. [C3.]

STEEL INDUSTRY AD CAMPAIGN -- The steel industry has inaugurated an advertising campaign to reposition itself as a vibrant and crucial part of the American economy. [C10.]

JUSTICES TO HEAR PHONE CASE -- The Supreme Court said that it would consider a lawsuit that accuses the nation's largest telephone companies of violating federal antitrust law by conspiring to carve up local markets to preserve their monopolies. [C3.]

CHANGE AT THE TOP AT KRAFT -- Amid lackluster earnings growth and a stagnant share price, the directors of Kraft Food ousted the chief executive, Roger K. Deromedi, left, who had been at Kraft for 28 years and its head since 2001. He will be succeeded by Irene B. Rosenfeld, who will become one of 12 women leading a Fortune 500 company. Analysts say that Kraft has lagged some rivals in introducing successful products. [C3.]

NEWSPAPER DEAL APPROVED -- Shareholders of Knight Ridder, the newspaper company, voted overwhelmingly to sell the company to McClatchy. [C10.]

MINING DEAL MAY NOT BE FINAL -- The $40 billion deal by the copper miner Phelps Dodge to acquire Inco and Falconbridge, two major nickel producers in Canada, could yet be upset by another bid, analysts say. [C11.]

BIAS AGAINST RUSSIA SEEN -- The Russian oligarch Aleksei Mordashov lost the battle for the steel company Arcelor for one reason, Russian politicians say: Russophobia. [C11.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Take 2 Interactive per share''Last Monday: $13.03Yesterday: $12.87

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); PORNOGRAPHY (88%); NEW HOME SALES (86%); EMISSIONS (86%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); LITIGATION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); GRAND JURY (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (69%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%); EARLY RETIREMENT (61%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); PUBLISHING (55%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (57%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (84%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (54%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (57%); BSX (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (88%); BILL GATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



573 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUFFETT'S LEGACY: THE FOUNDATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Buffett's Billions Will Aid Fight Against Disease

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. and RICK LYMAN

 BODY:
Warren E. Buffett's $31 billion gift to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation will help the foundation pursue its longstanding goal of curing the globe's most fatal diseases, Mr. Gates said yesterday, along with improving American education.
 The foundation hopes to use the enormous gift, among other things, to find a vaccine for AIDS, Mrs. Gates said. And Mr. Gates went further, saying that while he might be ''overly optimistic,'' he believed there was a real shot at finding cures for the 20 leading fatal diseases, as well as ensuring that every American has a chance at a decent education.
''Can that happen in our lifetime?'' Mr. Gates said, sitting next to Mr. Buffett at the New York Public Library, where the gift was formally announced after news of it broke on Sunday. ''I'll be optimistic and say, Absolutely.''
 But Mr. Gates acknowledged that spending the money effectively would be difficult. The scientific tasks the foundation has set for itself in fields like malaria and tuberculosis take time as well as money, because they require years of laboratory work followed by years of clinical trials, sometimes ending fruitlessly. Improving American education -- once better ideas have been found -- can take just as long. 
 ''It's incredibly difficult to give this much money away well,'' said Jean Strouse, a biographer who has compiled an oral history project on the Gates Foundation. ''And giving it away to people who can use it well, especially in places where poverty is so overwhelming, where there's not much real infrastructure.''
 Both Mr. Buffett, who will join the foundation's leadership, and the Gateses acknowledged as much. 
 ''In the last few months we have begun to really talk about and try to come up with a plan for that,'' Mrs. Gates said. 
 They must, for instance, improve their dialogue with the governments of poor nations to make sure that vaccines get down to the people who need them. 
 Mr. Buffett, for his part, said he saw no need to tinker with the foundation's essential goal: improving the lot of poor people elsewhere in the world without regard to their color, religion or other differences.
 Describing his own way of choosing companies to invest in, Mr. Buffett, one of history's most successful investors, said, ''I've learned to adapt to other managers'' and then jokingly compared the process to picking a spouse. ''It's not a good idea to marry one expecting them to change,'' he said.
 Mrs. Gates was a Microsoft executive when she married Mr. Gates when he was 38 and she was 29. Upon hearing Mr. Buffett's remark, Mr. Gates leaned back on his stool with a big sheepish grin as his wife glanced knowingly at him.
 Then Mr. Buffett said, ''I'm happy with the ones I'm marrying here.''
 Later in the exchange, which was in front of 200 philanthropy executives, scientists, students and a few reporters, Mr. Gates got in his own reflection on the partnership. ''It's scary,'' he said. ''If I make a mistake with my own money, it isn't as big as making a mistake with Warren's money.''
 To which Mr. Buffett replied: ''I won't grade you more often than daily.''
 Mr. Buffett is giving away about 85 percent of his fortune, most of it to the Gates foundation. The gift, representing the current value of 10 million Class B shares of Berkshire Hathaway, the insurance conglomerate he formed nearly 50 years ago, will nearly double the wealth of the Gates Foundation, which was already the world's biggest, at almost $30 billion. The stock will be transferred to the foundation in increments over many years; the first transfer will be half a million shares this year, worth about $1.5 billion.
 Although the money will not change the foundation's larger goals, Mrs. Gates mentioned yesterday that it had been moving quietly for the last 18 months into microlending, which is the granting of small loans to poor people so they can start small businesses. A microloan of less than $50 might finance, for example, the purchase of a loom or a set of bicycle repair tools.
 Though he is also leaving billions to separate foundations for his children, Mr. Buffett said he felt he was ''not cut out'' to be a philanthropist like the Gateses and preferred to remain at the helm of his company.
 ''They'll spend more time and energy on it,'' he said. ''I'm having so much fun doing what I do, and I think they'll be more able to accept any mistakes they made than I would if I made them.''
 Bill Gates was a quicker study on new topics, like medicine, that he would have to master, Mr. Buffett said, and added: ''I wouldn't want to listen to as many people with as many different opinions as they do.''
 Rather than spend every cent on fruitlessly trying to rebuild broken health care systems, the Gates Foundation follows a pattern of spending generously to chase solutions like a malaria vaccine. It also buys supplies, like vaccines or mosquito nets, but then tries to get rich countries to match its donations and poor countries to get organized well enough to distribute the goods.
 Similarly, in education, it creates model schools that public school systems can use as examples, rather than spending endlessly to pay the expenses of every impoverished American school district. 
 Her ''fondest dream,'' Mrs. Gates said, is an AIDS vaccine, something scientists have been pursuing since the 1980's and which she admitted could take an additional 20 years. A stopgap measure, she said, could be a microbicide: an undetectable protective gel that women could insert before sex.
 Mr. Gates said he wanted to use improved global health as a base upon which to build what he called ''the virtuous cycle'' of longer lifetimes, jobs, markets, infrastructure, tax bases and all the other steps that lift poor countries out of poverty. 
 Dr. Richard Klausner, a former director of the National Cancer Institute and the Gates Foundation's former head of global health, said that besides microlending he also would not be surprised if the foundation followed the Rockefeller Foundation's example in seeking higher-yield, drought-resistant seeds for poor farmers.
 Dr. Harold E. Varmus, president of the Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, said the foundation could fight some of the major preventable causes of death in poor countries: cigarettes, alcohol abuse and automobile injuries.
 Dr. Varmus was the chief scientific adviser for the Grand Challenges in Global Health, a sort of contest in which Mr. Gates gave out $437 million to teams pursuing exotic goals like vaccines that can be inhaled or chemicals that can knock out mosquitoes' sense of smell. He said his advisory committee particularly wished it could make grants for water purification and for chronic diseases like diabetes and cancer that have loomed larger in the poor world as people live longer. 
 Asked if a richer Gates Foundation could divert scientists from other fields, Dr. Varmus said he was ''more concerned with using the scientific horsepower we've already developed.''
 Noting that the National Institutes of Health give out $28 billion a year -- ten times as much as even the enriched Gates Foundation will -- he said its inflation-adjusted budget has been shrinking.
 Some aid recipients also worry that the Gates-Buffett fortune will let other donors, including the American government, feel that they can back away from public health. That would be disastrous for the world's poor, they said, since the foundation is only one stream in a vast river. If anyone does back away, Dr. Klausner said ''it's because they were looking for an excuse, not because there's no need.''
 Diana Aviv, president of Independent Sector, a nonpartisan coalition that represents charities and foundations, said she expected the Buffett money to give the Gates Foundation more power. 
 ''They haven't served multiple programs,'' Ms. Aviv said. ''They've been much more generous in a few. This gives them leveraging opportunities.'' 
 Mr. Buffett said yesterday that he was a student of the same philanthropists that Mr. Gates modeled himself on: the oilman John D. Rockefeller; the steel magnate Andrew Carnegie; Irene Diamond, the widow of the real estate developer Aaron Diamond; and Joan Kroc, the widow of Ray Kroc, who founded McDonald's.
 Mr. Buffett is also famous for loving efficiency. He runs a company with 200,000 employees from an Omaha headquarters with fewer than 20 employees. The Gates Foundation, in Seattle, has about 300. 
 Mr. Buffett was scathing yesterday in describing his feelings about estate taxes, which the Bush administration is trying to kill. The ability of rich men to pass on ''dynastic wealth'' to their grandchildren is offensive to the American tradition of meritocracy, he said.
 He gets particularly upset at his country club, he said, hearing members complain about welfare mothers getting food stamps ''while they are trying to leave their children a more-than-lifetime-supply of food stamps and are substituting a trust officer for a welfare officer.''
 To widespread applause, he smiled and asked: ''Is there anyone I forgot to insult?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A NEW TEAM -- Warren E. Buffett, front, and Bill Gates arrived at the New York Public Library yesterday to discuss their partnership. The men, longtime friends, share a disdain for inherited wealth. Page C1. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)Chart: ''A Force in Public Health''The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has focused on fighting global diseases and improving education.TOTAL GRANTS PAID IN 2005: $1.4 billionGLOBAL HEALTH: $844 millionEDUCATION: $284 millionOTHER: $128 millionPROGRAMS IN THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST: $75 millionLIBRARIES: $25 millionTOTAL GRANTS SINCE 1995: $10.1 billionGlobal health: $5.9 billionImmunization: 1.9H.I.V./AIDS: 1.1Malaria: 0.6Reproductive health: 0.5Tuberculosis: 0.3Education: $2.6 billionScholarships: 1.3High schools: 0.9(Source by Gates Foundation)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); VACCINES (92%); FOUNDATIONS (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CHARITIES (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); MALARIA (72%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); WRITERS (69%); HISTORY (51%) Philanthropy; Records and Achievements; Medicine and Health ; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Education and Schools; Philanthropy; Vaccination and Immunization

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (93%) Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation; Berkshire Hathaway

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (92%); WARREN BUFFETT (92%); MELINDA GATES (79%); RICK PERRY (72%) Donald G Jr Mcneil; Rick Lyman; Warren E Buffett; Bill (William H) Gates; Melinda Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



574 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 647 words

PERSON: Arif Mardin

HEADLINE: Arif Mardin, Music Producer For Pop Notables, Dies at 74

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Arif Mardin, the Turkish-American record producer who was one of the most successful and artistically significant behind-the-scenes figures in popular music in the last half-century, died on Sunday at his home in New York City. He was 74. 
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son Joe. 
 An arranger and composer as well as a producer, Mr. Mardin was a guiding force behind hit records by many pop luminaries, most notably Aretha Franklin, the Bee Gees, Bette Midler, Chaka Khan and Norah Jones, whose careers he was instrumental in shaping. Winner of 12 Grammys, including two for best producer, nonclassical (in 1976 and 2003), he was a major architect of the pop-soul style nicknamed the Atlantic Sound in the late 1960's. 
 That influential style was a three-way collaboration with his fellow Atlantic Records producers Jerry Wexler and Tom Dowd; Mr. Mardin was the arranger of the three. It resulted in a series of stirring groundbreaking pop-gospel albums that catapulted the career of the young Aretha Franklin out of the doldrums and earned her the nickname Queen of Soul. The same basic formula of recording with Southern musicians was successfully applied to a number of other artists, most notably Dusty Springfield in her classic ''Dusty in Memphis'' album. 
 Out of the Atlantic Sound grew the sophisticated mainstream style of rhythm and blues made by white musicians that he developed working with artists like Daryl Hall and John Oates, Average White Band and the Bee Gees that was labeled ''blue-eyed soul.'' His work with the Bee Gees reignited their stalled career and directly influenced their score for ''Saturday Night Fever,'' whose soundtrack became the best-selling album of all time before being surpassed by Michael Jackson's ''Thriller.'' 
 His association with Atlantic, which was founded by his fellow Turks Ahmet Ertegun and his brother Nesuhi, began in 1963, lasted for nearly four decades until he retired in 2001. He then began a new corporate relationship as senior vice president and co-general manager of the EMI label Manhattan Records. His first project there was producing Ms. Jones's debut album, ''Come Away With Me,'' a spare, elegant hybrid of folk, country, pop and jazz for Manhattan's sister label, Blue Note. He was also co-producer of its hit follow-up, ''Feels Like Home.'' 
 In addition to his son, Joe, who is also a record producer and arranger, Mr. Mardin is survived by his wife of 48 years, Latife, and two daughters, Julie and Nazan Joffre. 
 Some of his most famous hits as a producer include ''Jive Talkin' '' (the Bee Gees), ''Send in the Clowns'' (Judy Collins), ''Against All Odds'' (Phil Collins), ''The Wind Beneath My Wings'' (Ms. Midler), ''You Belong to Me'' (Carly Simon) and ''I'm Every Woman'' (Ms. Khan).
 Born to an aristocratic family in Istanbul, Mr. Mardin graduated from Istanbul University, where he studied economics. An ardent jazz fan and self-taught arranger and composer, he met Dizzy Gillespie and Quincy Jones at a jazz concert in Istanbul in 1956 and so impressed them with his work that he became the recipient of the first Quincy Jones Scholarship at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. 
 Bitten by the pop music bug, he began his music business career at Atlantic in 1963 as an assistant to Nesuhi Ertegun, rapidly working his up the ladder, becoming a house producer and arranger for the label and eventually senior vice president. 
 He collected gold and platinum albums and in 1990 was inducted into the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame. He also worked sporadically as a composer of jazz and big-band pieces and in the 1990's completed an opera, ''I Will Wait.'' At the time of his death he was recording a collection of his own compositions performed by Ms. Jones, Ms. Midler, Ms. Khan, Ms. Simon and Dianne Reeves, among others, with his son as co-producer.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arif Mardin at the 1996 Grammys. (Photo by Atlantic Records, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); RECORD INDUSTRY (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); CANCER (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (84%)

MICHAEL JACKSON (79%) Stephen Holden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006



575 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Rising Rates Slowed Existing-Home Sales in May

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes fell 1.2 percent in May as higher interest rates slowed buying activity, the National Association of Realtors said Tuesday.
 Sales fell to a seasonally adjusted annualized rate of 6.67 million units in May from a downwardly revised level of 6.75 million in April. The rate in May was 6.6 percent below the pace of 7.14 million units a year earlier, but slightly higher than analysts had expected. 
David A. Lereah, the association's chief economist, said the data were consistent with his forecast of a soft landing for the housing market. 
 ''Over all, I think this is a pretty good report,'' he said. ''It demonstrates that the housing sector is slowing, but it's slowing in a manageable way.'' 
 But the data also showed a buildup of inventories of unsold homes. A record 3.6 million homes were for sale at the end of May, representing a 6.5-month supply, compared with 6.1 months at the end of April and the largest monthly supply since May 1997, the trade group said.
 In some overheated local markets, like Southern Florida, the supply of unsold homes has reached more than 10 months' worth, putting them on the cusp of price reductions, Mr. Lereah said.
 Any downward adjustment in prices would probably last only a few months, he said, because of demand from home shoppers who have been waiting for opportunities to buy at more affordable prices.
 ''There's pent-up demand out there in these local markets where prices will soften because those local economies are very healthy,'' Mr. Lereah said. ''There's job creation, and there's also good migration of households into those areas.''
 Nationally, home prices still increased in May, both compared with April and a year earlier. The national median existing home price for all housing types was $230,000 in May, up 6 percent from $217,000 in May 2005 and up 3.6 percent from the April median of $222,000.
 Mr. Lereah said sales dropped more sharply in some markets, including Florida, Virginia, California and the District of Columbia. States where sales increased included Texas, North Carolina, Georgia and Utah. In the Northeast, the Realtors said existing home sales fell 4.2 percent, compared with April, and in the Midwest they fell 3.8 percent, while edging up 0.7 percent in the West and 0.4 percent in the South.
 The national average mortgage rate for conventional 30-year fixed-rate loans was 6.6 percent in May, up from 6.51 percent in April and 5.72 percent in May 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); JOB CREATION (50%) Housing; Sales; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%) National Assn of Realtors

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); TEXAS, USA (77%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); MIDWEST USA (66%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



576 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Pressure Builds for Japan's Central Banker to Quit 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 27 

 BODY:
Central bankers are supposed to be the most strait-laced members of the staid banking world, standing above the fray and beyond reproach. Yet, for the second time since December, a head of a major central bank now finds himself in the harsh glare of scandal.
 This time it is Toshihiko Fukui, the governor of the Bank of Japan, the central bank of the world's second-largest economy, after the United States. 
He is under mounting pressure to resign after revealing two weeks ago that he invested in a stock fund run by an executive who was later indicted for insider trading. The scandal has threatened the reputation of the bank, and underscored just how precious -- and fragile -- credibility is for a central bank.
 ''Central banks must be seen as having no bias,'' said Atsushi Nakajima, chief economist at the research arm of the Mizuho Financial Group, which is based in Tokyo. ''Credibility and trust are essential for what they do, even more so than other institutions.''
 The scandal comes as another major central bank, the Bank of Italy, is still trying to regroup after its longtime head, Antonio Fazio, was forced to resign in December after reports that he had improperly interfered in bank deals and that he and his family had accepted improper gifts. While the criticisms aimed at Mr. Fukui are not nearly as serious as those in Italy, both scandals have called into question the fairness and transparency of the two central banks. 
 Mr. Fukui's troubles began two weeks ago, when he told a parliamentary committee that he invested $100,000 in a fund run by Yoshiaki Murakami; the disclosure came just days before Mr. Murakami's indictment in an insider trading case. Calls for Mr. Fukui's resignation have been rising, with an opinion poll published Tuesday by Asahi Shimbun, a leading daily newspaper, showing 67 percent of Japanese say Mr. Fukui should step down.
 Mr. Fukui is not implicated in Mr. Murakami's insider trading case, and he made the investment as a private citizen in 1999. The uproar arose because Mr. Fukui held onto the investment even after he became the central bank chief three years ago, leading to questions about whether his holding of stocks represented a conflict of interest. The decisions he makes as central bank governor can influence interest rates and economic growth rates, therefore stock prices.
 Mr. Fukui's disclosure of the investment also highlighted the lack of transparency at the bank, which has not required its governor to make his assets public, as Ben S. Bernanke, the chief of the Federal Reserve, must do.
 On Tuesday, the bank responded to these criticisms by releasing a partial list of Mr. Fukui's personal assets, which totaled 231.7 million yen ($2.01 million) in March. The sum did not include stocks and stock funds. Mr. Fukui said last week that his investment in the fund run by Mr. Murakami was worth 22.3 million yen ($191,000) in December.
 During a news conference last week, Mr. Fukui apologized for creating the controversy, and he has kept a low profile since then.
 Political pressure for Mr. Fukui's resignation reached a new high on Monday, when Takenori Kanzaki, the head of a small party, the New Komeito, in Japan's ruling coalition, was quoted in local press reports saying Mr. Fukui should ''decide his own fate.'' In the indirect world of Japanese politics, that phrase is often an oblique way to push for someone's resignation.
 Asked about the remark, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi also seemed to pull back from his previous unequivocal displays of support for Mr. Fukui. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Mr. Koizumi said Mr. Kanzaki made ''an obvious remark,'' according to Japan's Kyodo news service.
 Over the weekend, the heads of Japan's four largest opposition parties, issued a joint statement demanding Mr. Fukui's resignation.
 The uproar has roiled Japan's financial markets, amplifying the recent volatility displayed by it and other global stock indexes. It has also sent the yen to a two-month low of 116.70 yen per dollar during trading in Tokyo on Tuesday.
 Economists and investors say the biggest fear is that Mr. Fukui's investments and the current scandal could be seen as distorting policy. This is a particular problem as the Bank of Japan appears increasingly likely to raise interest rates for the first time in six years, possibly as soon as the next meeting of the bank's monetary policy board, July 13-14.
 ''If this problem keeps rumbling in the background, it could be perceived as influencing Fukui's policy decisions,'' said Richard Jerram, an economist in Tokyo at Macquarie Securities. ''That is a dangerous position for a central banker to be in.''
 In Italy, the central bank's reputation was damaged by accusations from prosecutors that the former central bank head, Mr. Fazio, meddled in bank mergers and by charges that he accepted gifts including gold jewelry and antique books. Mr. Fazio, who has denied wrongdoing, resigned after 12 years in the post.
 Rome reacted to restore faith in the central bank by appointing a new head, Mario Draghi, a former vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International and holder of a Ph.D. in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 In the case of Japan, the bank is eager to show that it is up to the task of managing the country's $4.6 trillion economy. If Mr. Fukui does resign, economists say, he is likely to do so quickly, before the bank moves on interest rates. Economists say the most likely candidate to succeed him is Toshiro Muto, a deputy governor who shares Mr. Fukui's views and would probably maintain continuity in policy.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Toshihiko Fukui, governor of the Bank of Japan, said that he invested in a fund run by an executive who was later indicted. (Photo by Toru Yamanaka/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (94%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); ETHICS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); BONDS (70%); DISMISSALS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (51%) Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Insider Trading; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Frauds and Swindling

COMPANY: MIZUHO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: MFG (NYSE) (58%); 8411 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%) Toshihiko Fukui; Yoshiaki Murakami; Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) CHUBU JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



577 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Over Rates Sends Dow Tumbling

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street slumped yesterday as investors looked past another round of acquisitions and grew increasingly anxious about the Federal Reserve's coming decision on interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled more than 120 points.
 With the Fed meeting today and tomorrow to discuss its rate policy, yesterday's stronger-than-expected economic data raised fears that the central bank would signal that more rate increases are coming.
A mild drop in sales of existing homes and an unexpected jump in consumer confidence showed that the economy was moderating but remained sturdy, although investors were not consoled. 
 The Dow plunged 120.54 points, or 1.09 percent, to 10,924.74. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 11.36 points, or 0.91 percent, to 1,239.20, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 33.42 points, or 1.57 percent, to 2,100.25.
 Bonds recouped some of their recent losses, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipping to 5.20 percent from 5.23 percent Monday. The price rose 8/32, to 9913/32. 
 Rising oil prices also weighed on the market. A barrel of light crude added 12 cents, to $71.92, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The better-than-forecast data yesterday brightened the outlook for the economy. The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index for June gained 1 point, to 105.7, compared with estimates of a decline of 0.8 point. Elsewhere, the Commerce Department said May existing-home sales fell 1 percent, to 6.67 million; even with the decline, that topped the forecast of 6.61 million sales.
 At its two-day meeting, the Fed is expected to lift the main short-term interest rate by a quarter percentage point, to 5.25 percent. But with soaring energy costs pressuring prices elsewhere, some on Wall Street already predict another increase in August -- or the possibility of an aggressive half-point raise this week.
 In corporate news, the Spanish-language broadcaster Univision Communications accepted an investor group's takeover offer of $12.3 billion, or $36.25 a share, which was increased from an initial bid of $35.50 a share. Univision, however, had been asking for $40 a share. Univision jumped $1.97, to $34.
 Citizens Banking made a $1.05 billion deal to buy Republic Bancorp and form a Midwestern regional bank to be called Citizens Republic Bancorp. Citizens Bank, based in Flint, Mich., fell $2.37, to $24.66, while Republic, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., surged $1.88, to $12.45.
 General Motors, one of the Dow industrial stocks, slid $1.85, to $25.90, after it said its 2006 sales were likely to decline from last year because of higher lending rates and gas prices.
 DuPont shed $1.16, to $40.88, and also dragged on the Dow. Vivendi sold its stake in the company for $671 million.
 Declining issues overtook advancers by three to one on the New York Stock Exchange, where preliminary consolidated volume of 2.33 billion shares exceeded the 1.96 billion shares that changed hands Monday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and two-year notes. 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.628
High Rate: 4.775
Coupon Yield: 4.859
Low Rate: 4.740
Median Rate: 4.765
Total applied for: $40,071,869
Accepted: $19,245,507
Noncompetitive: $310,069

The four-week bills mature July 27, 2006.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.786
High Yield: 5.239
Low Yield: 5.180
Median Yield: 5.219
Accepted at low price: 17%
Total applied for: $54,595,234
Accepted: $26,496,892
Noncompetitive: $1,104,049
Interest set at: 5 1/8

The 2-year notes mature June 20, 2008.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); FUEL MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CITIZENS REPUBLIC BANCORP INC (80%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); VIVENDI (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: CRBC (NASDAQ) (80%); GM (NYSE) (50%); VIV (PAR) (50%); VIV (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



578 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tactic On KPMG Questioned

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A federal judge ruled yesterday that a tactic used by prosecutors to crack down on corporate misconduct violated the constitutional rights of employees, a decision that may change the way the government pursues white-collar cases. 
 The ruling, by Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of United States District Court in Manhattan, who is overseeing the trial of former employees of the accounting firm KPMG, is the first major criticism from the bench of tactics that federal prosecutors have adopted since a wave of corporate scandals erupted after the collapse of Enron.
The issue addressed by Judge Kaplan concerns the advancing of legal fees to employees caught up in criminal investigations. Companies have traditionally paid such costs, and some states' laws and a number of companies' bylaws require it. But an influential 2003 Justice Department document known as the Thompson memorandum has been interpreted by many lawyers to mean that companies under investigation can gain favor with prosecutors if they cut off legal fees.
 Prosecutors have argued that the Thompson memorandum guidelines are simply factors that prosecutors must consider in evaluating a company's cooperation and are not ironclad requirements. Defense lawyers and corporate lawyers, however, contend that the memorandum is being used as a club to bludgeon companies into disclosing legal secrets, cutting off legal fees and showing other signs of cooperation to avoid being indicted. 
 An indictment is often a death knell for a company, as it was for KPMG's rival, Arthur Andersen, which went out of business in 2002. Last month, the securities class-action law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman was indicted on charges of making more than $11 million in secret payments to three individuals who served as plaintiffs. Since then, the law firm has struggled to keep lawyers and clients from defecting.
 In a strongly worded opinion, Judge Kaplan agreed with the defendants' contention that KPMG, which was under criminal investigation, was improperly pressured to cut their legal fees. 
 KPMG refused to pay the defendants' legal expenses, he wrote ''because the government held the proverbial gun to its head.'' 
 The government, he said, ''has let its zeal get in the way of its judgment.''
 Henry E. Hockeimer Jr., a criminal defense lawyer, called Judge Kaplan's opinion ''a well-reasoned attack'' on the Thompson memorandum, adding that it would probably deal ''a death blow'' to at least the guideline on legal fees. 
 ''If there is a real sense that courts are not happy with this tactic and are pushing back, ultimately the D.O.J. may re-evaluate this and other aspects of the Thompson memorandum,'' he said.
 A Justice Department spokesman, Brian Roehrkasse, said yesterday that the department was ''surprised and disappointed by Judge Kaplan's novel conclusion, never before reached by any other court, that these guidelines are constitutionally suspect.'' 
 ''The department remains committed to the principles and guidance set out in the Thompson memorandum,'' he said.
 Nonetheless, there are signs that the Justice Department is scrutinizing how the guidelines are used.
 The ruling, which may be appealed, applies only to the KPMG case and is at the level of a district court. 
 But because the federal court in Manhattan is home to so many high-profile white-collar and corporate fraud cases, Judge Kaplan's ruling carries extra weight, lawyers said. Judge Kaplan has served on the court since 1994.
 Stephen J. Bronis, a Miami lawyer who is the chairman of the white-collar crime section of the American Bar Association, said the ruling ''has the potential of being a watershed case that should operate as a signal to the U.S. attorneys not to use the guidelines as a coercive vehicle.''
 The judge, however, declined to dismiss the indictment against 15 former employees of KPMG, including a former vice chairman and a former chief financial officer. They face charges that they conspired to defraud the government by making and selling questionable tax shelters to wealthy investors. The trial is scheduled to begin in September. Sixteen employees were indicted last year, shortly after KPMG reached a $456 million deferred-prosecution agreement with the Justice Department last August. One former employee has since entered a guilty plea.
 Until KPMG came under investigation in early 2004, the firm, like most corporations, had a decades-long practice of advancing and paying legal fees to employees caught up in inquiries. 
 But with the Thompson memorandum's view that advancing or paying legal fees is akin to protecting culpable personnel, and thus a mark against a firm facing indictment, that practice changed. 
 In 2004, as KPMG negotiated with prosecutors to avert an indictment, the firm first capped the legal fees, at $400,000, then cut them off entirely. 
 A senior KPMG executive and former federal judge, Sven Erik Holmes, said in recently disclosed court papers that ''it was critical that the firm be in full compliance with the Thompson guidelines'' regarding its treatment of employees whom it suspected of wrongdoing.
 KPMG is regarded as a textbook example of how firms can avoid indictment by cooperating with prosecutors, in part by firing employees suspected of wrongdoing -- even before they are found guilty -- and by cutting off legal fees. 
 In his ruling, the judge wrote that during negotiations with KPMG, the government violated the employees' Fifth Amendment right to a fundamentally fair trial and their Sixth Amendment right to a lawyer. 
 An employer's payment of legal fees is ''very much part of American life,'' he wrote, and applies to ''bus drivers sued for accidents, cops sued for allegedly wrongful arrests, nurses named in malpractice cases, news reporters sued in libel cases and corporate chieftains embroiled in securities litigation.'' 
 The right to legal fees is ''as much a part of the bargain between employer and employee as salary or wages,'' he wrote.
 The judge also dressed down Manhattan prosecutors for being ''economical with the truth'' about pressuring KPMG to cut off the fees.
 Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement that, ''We believe that the prosecutors acted ethically and properly throughout this case.''
 Judge Kaplan's criticism of the Thompson memorandum comes a month after the Justice Department basked in its biggest corporate fraud victory yet -- the convictions of Enron's former top executives, Jeffrey K. Skilling and Kenneth L. Lay.
 The guidelines were written in 2003 by Larry D. Thompson, the deputy attorney general at the time, after a wave of corporate scandals, including WorldCom, Tyco and Adelphia Communications among others. One of the guidelines that has also prompted much debate among lawyers concerns attorney-client privilege -- treating communications between a lawyer and company executives as confidential. 
 The Thompson guideline encourages companies to share such communications with investigators, a move defense lawyers also criticize.
 Prosecutors say they do not demand outright that a company under investigation disclose its legal secrets or cut legal fees to employees suspected of wrongdoing. The lead prosecutor in the KPMG employees' case, Justin Weddle, vigorously denied making any such demands of the KPMG defendants in hearings earlier this year. 
 Still, criminal defense lawyers say that the Justice Department may be out of touch with how individual prosecutors in 94 federal districts nationwide interpret the guidelines.
 ''What happens is you have corporations which are looking at the Thompson memo and whichare in many ways at the mercy of the Department of Justice,'' said Daniel E. Reidy of Jones Day.
 A recent survey by the Association of Corporate Counsels, a legal lobby, contends that ''a culture of waiver'' has emerged, with the government now routinely expecting corporations and employees to disclose private legal communications. 
 The association is part of a coalition that is pushing the Justice Department to revise its guidelines. The coalition also includes the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, the National Association of Manufacturers and the American Civil Liberties Union. The American Bar Association also supports changes to guidelines, but it is not part of the coalition because its internal rules prohibit it from joining lobbying groups.
 In February, the coalition met with Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales and gave him a letter proposing changes to the Thompson memorandum.
 The Justice Department has already taken steps to insure that prosecutors are not being overly aggressive with the guidelines. 
 Last fall, Robert McCallum, then the acting assistant attorney general, wrote a memorandum to all United States attorneys that asked them to obtain approval from supervising prosecutors before requesting the privilege waivers.
 White-collar defendants in high-profile criminal cases can incur legal fees that run into tens of millions of dollars. 
 In the KPMG case, Judge Kaplan noted that the volume of evidence and the limited budget of many of the defendants had hindered their ability to construct defenses.
 David Spears, a lawyer for one of the defendants, Jeffrey Stein, a former KPMG vice chairman whose fees were cut off last May despite a special severance package, said yesterday that ''we are gratified that the court has recognized the unconstitutional aspects of the Thompson memorandum.''
 Others hailed the decision. The embattled law firm Milberg Weiss said in a statement, ''We hope that courts will continue to hold the Justice Department accountable for such overreaching use of the Thompson memorandum.''
 Judge Kaplan cannot order KPMG to pay the fees or the government to pay the fees out of KPMG's $456 million fine. 
 He gave lawyers for the KPMG defendants 14 days to file a civil lawsuit claiming the fees against the firm, which has indicated it may countersue for breach of fiduciary duty. 
 George Ledwith, a spokesman for KPMG, said yesterday that the firm ''was reviewing the opinion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of U.S. District Court in Manhattan (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); JUDGES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SCANDALS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%) Accounting and Accountants; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: MILBERG LLP (91%); KPMG (85%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Kpmg; Justice Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (85%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Lewis A (Judge) Kaplan; Henry E Hockeimer; Brian Roehrkasse; Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



579 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
HALPERIN, DONALD M.

 BODY:
 HALPERIN--Donald M. of Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, 60, the youngest person ever to be elected to the NY State Senate at the age of 24, died June 26, 2006 at the Menorah Nursing Home and Hospital in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn after a valiant 22 month battle with cancer. Don Halperin was the beloved son of Gladys and the late Charles Halperin; devoted husband of Brenda; father of Jeremy and Rebecca and future-son-inlaw Joshua Burch; brother of Susan and Alan Gorman; and uncle of Sam Gorman. A graduate of Rutgers University and Brooklyn Law School, Don was a partner in the law firm of Kantor, Davidoff, Wolfe, Mandelker & Kass, PC. He represented the shorefront communities of Brooklyn in the NYS Senate for 23 years, with 13 years as the Ranking Democrat on Finance Committee. 
In 1993, former Governor Mario Cuomo named Don to the dual positions of Commissioner of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal (DHCR) and Housing ''Czar'', a cabinet level position. Don Halperin was the ultimate consensus builder, a skilled negotiator who had the uncanny ability to relate to all people, bringing the most diverse and opposing factions together to reach satisfying resolutions to thorny issues and debates. His sharp sense of humor and amazing wit earned him friends across the political spectrum. His work ethic and dedication to the people of New York earned him the respect of all his colleagues. As a result, Don Halperin had more bills signed into law than most members of the Minority Party in the Senate achieving a record 22 chapters in 1978. During his legislative career Don Halperin authored a law requiring braille and audio signals in elevators and was a leading advocate for child welfare and criminal justice. He authored the Rapid Transit Noise Code Act on elevated trains and subways. He was a pioneer in developing legislation to revamp the NYS Reverse Mortgage Law and wrote a law to provide grants to finance programs to reduce and prevent racial and cultural conflicts in schools. During his illness Don Halperin advocated and secured passage of significant affordable housing legislation, (Chapter 714 of the Laws of 2005) which provides more realistic evaluation and assessment rates on rental properties with restricted income issues. Funeral Services will be on Wednesday, June 28th, 2006 at 1PM at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn. The family will sit shiva at their home, 118 Hastings Street, Wednesday evening; Thursday and Friday afternoon after 1PM, Saturday evening and Sunday and Monday afternoon starting at 1PM. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that contributions in Donald Halperin's name be made to: Shirley Applebaum Heart League; Menorah Nursing Home and Hospital; or the Lung Cancer Alliance. 
 $(6$)HALPERIN--Donald M. The members, counsel and employees of Kantor, Davidoff, Wolfe, Mandelker & Kass, P.C. mourn the passing of our partner, friend and collegue, Donald M. Halperin. Don Halperin joined our firm in 1995 after a distinguised career in public service. He was the youngest person ever elected as a New York senator. He held that office for 23 years, rising to ranking member of that body's Higher Education, Insurance & Finance committees. In 1993 he was named Director of Housing for New York State and Commissioner of the Divison of Housing and Community Renewal. Don Halperin was beloved and trusted by both sides of the aisle in city and state government. His sunny disposition, incisive mind and fierce loyalty well served his constituents, while he held public office, and his many clients whom he served as a lobbyist once he left public office. Don Halperin graced our firm with his presence and will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to Brenda, Jeremy and Rebecca and his mother Gladys. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CANCER (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); ETHICS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); LUNG CANCER (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); RACE & RACISM (64%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KANTOR DAVIDOFF WOLFE MANDELKER TWOMEY & GALLANTY PC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



580 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: A $53 Billion Budget, Sealed With 4 Kisses 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
With a handshake, a hug and four kisses, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, sealed an agreement yesterday on a $52.9 billion budget that sets aside more than $1 billion for health care costs, puts 1,200 more police officers on the street and adds money for libraries, summer jobs and prekindergarten classes.
 The budget agreement appeared, on the surface, to be the most cordial and least contentious of the five the mayor has negotiated since taking office in 2002. 
In a joint announcement on the steps of City Hall at 6:30 p.m., Mr. Bloomberg cited an ''incredible spirit of unity'' and called the budget agreement ''both realistic and responsible'' while Ms. Quinn said, ''We are sending a clear message as an institution that we need to act as stewards of the taxpayer dollar and do everything we can to prepare for the long-term costs which we know loom ahead.''
 The consensus budget for the 2007 fiscal year, which starts on Saturday, is $233 million greater than the $52.7 billion executive budget the mayor released on May 4, according to officials on both sides.
 Under the deal announced yesterday, the mayor agreed to incorporate some programs that are Council favorites into his annual ''baseline'' budget assumptions, making them far less likely to be cut in future years. The items include $40 million to ensure that libraries are open at least five days a week, $10 million to finance about 7,000 summer jobs for teenagers, and $3 million for more frequent trash collection. 
 The two sides also agreed to several new outlays, all relating to children: $7 million to add 2,000 full-day prekindergarten spaces for 4-year-olds; $4.2 million in aid to nonprofit agencies that serve neglected and abused children; and $2 million for ''child advocacy centers'' where lawyers, social workers and the police interview children believed to have been mistreated. Unlike the ''baseline'' programs, there is no assurance that these initiatives will continue beyond the next fiscal year. 
 Both sides announced an agreement to use $20 million from the 2006 budget to bridge a deficit at the New York City Housing Authority, an action that will increase by 3,000 the number of families that pay rent with vouchers supplied by the federal Section 8 program. That is in addition to $100 million from the 2006 surplus that the mayor's May budget proposal had already set aside to assist the Housing Authority.
 As a result of the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, the city is required to pass a balanced budget by June 30, the last day of the fiscal year. The budget still needs to be approved in a formal vote by the Council, which is scheduled for Thursday. 
 This year the negotiations began somewhat later than usual, in part because Ms. Quinn, a Manhattan Democrat, replaced several longtime employees in the Council's Finance Division after her colleagues elected her speaker in January. 
 The ceremonial ''handshake'' agreement between the mayor and the speaker occurred on June 19 in 2002, and on June 25, June 21 and June 28 in the three succeeding years. The mayor, who often had a tense relationship with the previous speaker, Gifford Miller, noted with evident satisfaction that the new agreement beat last year's by a day.
 Mr. Bloomberg lavished Ms. Quinn with praise. ''It is clear that we share a lot of the same priorities and that we both understand that balancing long- and short-term interest is absolutely essential to protecting our city's future.'' He said with a laugh, ''I didn't kiss the last speaker, I'll point out. I don't want you to take that the wrong way.'' 
 The city's fiscal fortunes have turned dramatically in Mayor Bloomberg's four and a half years in office. To plug big deficits in his first two budgets, the mayor raised property taxes and cut government services. In contrast, the fiscal year that ends on Friday has produced such a surge in revenue that the mayor and Council were able to set aside $2 billion for long-term expenses, and still close the year with a surplus of at least $3.4 billion. Of the money that was set aside, $1 billion went to create a fund for retirees' health care, and yesterday's budget deal puts another $1 billion into that fund. 
 Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Quinn warned yesterday that they did not expect the good times to continue. Interest payments on the city's debts, along with pension contributions and health-insurance premiums for municipal workers, have been rising swiftly. The mayor's Office of Management and Budget projects deficits of $3.6 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.6 billion for the fiscal years 2008 to 2010.
 ''We are not going to repeat the mistakes of the past and squander our good economic fortune,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. Ms. Quinn said, ''It is much better that we act conservatively with huge deficits like that looming out there.''
 Although the operating budget has been the focus of the negotiations since the mayor released his preliminary budget on Jan. 31, the new budget contains important capital programs as well, including an extension of the No. 7 subway line; construction of a bioscience office complex at First Avenue and 29th Street; and redevelopment of a former naval station on Staten Island. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CHILD WELFARE (86%); PUBLIC HOUSING (84%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); APPROVALS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); CHILD ABUSE (64%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%) Libraries and Librarians; Working Hours; Labor; Children and Youth

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Christine C (Speaker) Quinn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



581 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Talking With Iraqi Insurgents

 BODY:
It is a measure of how far Washington has scaled down its expectations on Iraq that this week's most encouraging news consisted of some highly tentative feelers for direct talks between the armed Shiite parties that dominate Iraq's government and some of the armed Sunni insurgent groups that have been fighting it. 
 Don't get us wrong. We, too, are encouraged that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has announced a promising, though not fully spelled out, national reconciliation program aimed at attracting wider support from the restive Sunni Arab minority. We are even more encouraged that several Sunni insurgent groups have reportedly approached the government with the idea of beginning negotiations.
If these approaches lead to successful talks with important elements of the insurgency, it would be a crucial breakthrough. Productive negotiations could help transform the newly formed Maliki cabinet into a true government of national unity, not just a symbolic parceling out of cabinet jobs among Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni politicians. 
 An agreement with major insurgent groups would also be an important step toward eventually enabling the Iraqi government to stand on its own, without having to rely indefinitely on tens of thousands of American troops to hold down the Sunni western provinces. Such an agreement could stabilize some areas enough to allow the kind of infrastructure repair and economic reconstruction that could generate genuine support from ordinary Iraqis.
 Nobody should underestimate the obstacles. But if Mr. Maliki is prepared to be a strong national leader, rather than a captive of the Shiite parties that put him in power, there is a chance that they can be overcome. 
 One big issue is amnesty. Insurgent groups are unlikely to agree to lay down their arms without some assurances of amnesty for their fighters. Yet the Iraqi government talks about denying amnesty to insurgents who have killed other Iraqis, and Washington has insisted on excluding those who have killed Americans. That is understandable on both counts, but it would seem to leave few, if any, real insurgents eligible for any amnesty. 
 There is also the question of dropping employment restrictions and other penalties against all but the highest echelons of former Baath Party members -- those with direct responsibility for the major crimes of the Saddam Hussein era. For most of the rest, party membership was often a condition for employment, promotion and, in some cases, survival. But many Shiites and Kurds, who suffered systematic discrimination under Baath rule, want to penalize even lower-level Baathists.
 Any reconciliation broad enough to matter will require embracing unsavory people and forgiving unsavory deeds. That won't be pretty or popular. But it is Iraq's best remaining hope for peace, reconstruction and national survival. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AMNESTY (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); PARDONS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%) Editorials; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Amnesties and Pardons

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



582 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: New Rules Will Require States to Move Welfare Recipients to Work 

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to issue sweeping new rules on Wednesday that will require states to move much larger numbers of poor people from welfare to work.
 The rules, drafted in response to a budget signed into law by President Bush in February, represent the biggest changes in welfare policy since 1996, when Congress abolished the federal guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children.
 Since then, the number of welfare recipients has plunged more than 60 percent, to 4.4 million people, from 12.2 million. Most of the decline occurred in the first years, before the 2001 recession. Federal and state officials say they expect the new rules to speed the decline in welfare rolls, which has slowed in recent years. 
 The rules are far more than a bureaucratic application of the new law, passed after four years of partisan deadlock. For the first time, they set a uniform definition for permissible work activities and require states to verify and document the number of hours worked by welfare recipients. 
 Nationally, in 2004, the last year for which official figures are available, about 32 percent of adults on welfare were working. Under the new rules, 50 percent of adult welfare recipients must be engaged in work or training in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, or states will face financial penalties. The penalties can reduce a state's federal welfare grant by 5 percent in the first year and by two additional percentage points for each subsequent year of noncompliance, up to a maximum penalty of 21 percent. 
 Some state officials and antipoverty groups, including many who opposed the 1996 law, say the new work requirements are unrealistic. But Bush administration officials point to Georgia as evidence that the goals are achievable.
 Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia, a Republican, said 69 percent of his state's adult welfare recipients were either working or in work-training programs, up from 8 percent four years ago. Moreover, Mr. Perdue said, the number of adult welfare cases has declined to 8,100, from 30,590 in 2002. In 32 of Georgia's 159 counties, he said, all the adults on welfare are employed or in training programs.
 Members of Congress thought they were setting stringent work requirements when they created the current welfare program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, in 1996. But state officials quickly discovered that the requirements were much less onerous than they had thought. 
 Under the old law, the work requirements were reduced whenever states reduced the number of families on welfare, compared with the 1995 level. In theory, 50 percent of adult welfare recipients were supposed to be working. But if a state's caseload dropped 45 percent, the work requirement was slashed by 45 percentage points, so that only 5 percent of the state's welfare recipients had to be working.
 Wade F. Horn, an assistant secretary of health and human services, said this provision of the 1996 law, known as a ''caseload reduction credit,'' had wiped out any meaningful work requirements. Under the new rules, states will receive credit only for future reductions in their welfare rolls. The base year, for the purpose of comparison, will be 2005.
 The new requirements may come as a shock to many states. In 2004, all states but Indiana and Mississippi met their work participation requirements, as calculated by the federal government. In 19 states, the required work participation rate -- after taking account of steep declines in the welfare rolls -- was zero.
 The administration has scheduled a news conference for Wednesday to announce the rules, which, under the new law, must be issued by the end of this month.
 Crystal A. Robinson, a 26-year-old mother of three in Minneapolis, said she believed that stricter work requirements could be helpful if states provided generous subsidies for child care. 
 Ms. Robinson received cash assistance from 2000 to 2002 and now receives help with her child care costs.
 ''I found a job I liked,'' said Ms. Robinson, who works 40 hours a week at a local hospital. ''I'm a very hard worker. But the child care would be unaffordable without assistance from Hennepin County.''
 Another welfare recipient, Laura L. Kegerreis, 33, receives $497 a month for herself and her three children while she takes job-preparation courses at Harrisburg Area Community College in Pennsylvania. Mr. Kegerreis said the new work requirements could force her to take fewer classes, prolonging her stay on welfare and delaying her ability to get a professional credential.
 The new law reauthorizes welfare programs through September 2010. The basic federal block grant remains $16.5 billion a year and is not adjusted for inflation or changes in the number of people on the rolls.
 ''Welfare'' used to mean a monthly check that could be immediately converted to cash. But more than half of the money now goes into child care, education, training and other services -- a huge shift since 1996.
 Under the new rules, the federal government will spend $150 million a year on programs to help couples form ''healthy marriages.'' Up to $50 million of this amount can be spent on activities promoting ''responsible fatherhood.'' These activities could include seminars on the causes of domestic violence and child abuse.
 After President Bill Clinton signed the 1996 welfare law, he gave states a large amount of discretion, saying he trusted them to help families become self-sufficient. The new rules limit the flexibility that states were granted in 1996. They define 12 acceptable types of work activity, including subsidized and unsubsidized employment, community service, on-the-job training, job search (usually limited to six weeks a year) and vocational education training (up to 12 months in a lifetime).
 Federal officials said they were adopting uniform standards because the definition of work now varied from state to state, and even from year to year within the same state. As a result, they said, it is difficult to compare states' performance.
 Today, as in 1996, many Democrats say the welfare law creates a perverse incentive. A state can comply by putting some people to work and by simply removing others from the rolls, regardless of whether they find jobs. 
 In an executive order on Friday, Gov. John Lynch of New Hampshire, a Democrat, made clear that he wanted to meet the federal requirements not just by closing cases, but by moving people to ''lasting employment and self-sufficiency.'' Mr. Lynch said he intended to increase child care, transportation, education and other services to help people stay off welfare.
 States could avoid many restrictions of the 1996 law by providing assistance entirely with state money, through separate state programs.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Welfare Rolls''The number of recipients of welfare benefits dropped rapidly after changes to the law in 1996, but since 2000, the decline has slowed.Graph tracks welfare benefits since 1960.(Source by Administration for Children and Families, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%) Welfare (US); Law and Legislation; Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; States (US); Children and Youth; Vocational Training; Welfare (US)

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN & FAMILIES (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SONNY PERDUE (66%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; Georgia

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



583 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Push for New Tactics as War on Malaria Falters

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
The mosquito nets arrived too late for 18-month-old Phillip Odong. 
 The roly-poly boy came down with his fourth bout of malaria on March 16, the same day the nets were handed out at the makeshift camp where he lived in northern Uganda. ''It was because of poverty that we could not afford one,'' his mother, Jackeline Ato, recalled recently, seated in rags beneath a mango tree.
The morning after his fever spiked, she took him to a clinic, but it did not have the medicines that might have saved him. He died four days later, crying, ''Mommy, Mommy,'' before losing consciousness. 
 It is no secret that mosquitoes carry the parasite that causes malaria. More mystifying is why 800,000 young African children still die of malaria per year -- more than from any other disease -- when there are medicines that cure for 55 cents a dose, mosquito nets that shield a child for $1 a year and indoor insecticide spraying that costs about $10 annually for a household. 
 An emerging consensus on solutions, combined with fresh scrutiny and a windfall of new financing, are prompting major donors to revamp years of failed efforts to stem malaria's mortal toll.
 The growing support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, enriched this week by a $31 billion gift from Warren E. Buffett, will provide still more impetus for change. 
 Paltry budgets, faulty strategies and government mismanagement have hamstrung past efforts to combat the disease. In Uganda, population 28 million, not one of the 1.8 million nets approved more than two years ago by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria has yet arrived. 
 The World Bank, after pledging to halve malaria deaths in Africa six years ago, had let its staff working on the disease dwindle to zero. 
 And the United States Agency for International Development admitted to outraged senators last year that it spent more on high-priced consultants than on life-saving commodities, like mosquito nets that cost $5.75 apiece and last up to five years. 
 Social conservatives and liberals have been building alliances across ideological lines on malaria, a killer of little children. Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, said he had found common ground with the economist Jeffrey Sachs, who has long maintained that practical solutions carried out by Africans can prevent millions of deaths from malaria. ''You have the left and right coming together,'' the senator said.
 At Congressional hearings last year, Senator Tom Coburn, a Republican and a doctor from Oklahoma, argued that Washington-based consultants and contractors have consumed too much of the malaria budget. 
 He called on Amir Attaran, a law professor at the University of Ottawa and fiery advocate on malaria, who testified that the United States Agency for International Development was too cozy with ''the foreign aid industrial complex.'' 
 Only 1 percent of the agency's 2004 malaria budget went for medicines, 1 percent for insecticides and 6 percent for mosquito nets. The rest was spent on research, education, evaluation, administration and other costs.
 The Bush administration is changing that approach.
 First, the A.I.D. is shifting its focus from mainly backing the sale of subsidized mosquito nets in Africa to giving more of them away to poor people.
 It is also committed to buying combination drugs like Coartem because the disease is proving increasingly resistant to older, cheaper medicines. A dose of Coartem, produced by the Swiss company Novartis, now costs 55 cents for a child up to age 3. 
 Finally, the United States is also getting behind the use of DDT and other insecticides and will pay for large-scale programs to spray small amounts of them inside homes. 
 ''We pretty well do know what the silver set of bullets are,'' Senator Brownback said at his 2004 hearing.
 The decisive push for change in malaria programs has come from the White House. Michael Gerson, one of the president's closest advisers, described malaria in an interview as ''maybe the main source of unnecessary suffering in the world.''
 Under the Bush administration's new policy, this year more than 40 percent of America's growing aid for malaria control is to be spent on nets, insecticides, medicines and other commodities. 
 The Bush administration hopes to persuade Congress to at least triple spending on malaria control to $300 million by 2008. 
 Global aid for malaria control has been rising, though the resources do not match the scale of the dying, critics say. Contributions from rich nations and international organizations have more than doubled since 2003 to $841 million last year, according to the World Health Organization. 
 With its new gift from Mr. Buffett, the Gates Foundation says its malaria financing will rise, though it is too soon to say by how much. It has already given $177 million for malaria controls.
 As the United States moves forward, other crucial donors are also taking steps to fix flawed programs.
 The World Bank has approved $130 million for projects in Africa in the past year and says that by 2010, new lending will grow to up to $1 billion. 
 The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, a widely praised organization set up in 2002 to pool the resources of donors, generally relies on African governments to do their own procurement. 
 Still, the Ugandan government has not yet bought the nets the fund approved more than two years ago. ''Oh, my dear, there are a lot of complications in procurement here,'' said John Rwakimari, who runs the country's malaria program. 
 The fund is now considering a change that would enable it to provide countries like Uganda with the nets and other commodities directly, rather than the money to buy them after Uganda's management of past grants was marred by incompetence and corruption. 
 Millions of doses of Global Fund-financed Coartem, the antimalaria drug, arrived this year in Uganda -- but that was because the country agreed, at the Global Fund's urging, to buy them through the World Health Organization.
 The scope of malaria's toll was evident on a recent visit to the pediatric ward of the regional public hospital in Gulu, Uganda. Babies and toddlers burning with malarial fevers arrived regularly. Mothers lay next to them, their soothing maternal voices a low murmuring in the cavernous room. 
 As many as 100,000 people, mostly children, die of malaria each year in Uganda alone. ''It's like a jumbo jet crashing every day,'' said Dr. Andrew Collins, deputy director of the Malaria Consortium, an international nonprofit group.
 The United States is testing indoor insecticide spraying there. It is also treating more than 700,000 nets that Ugandans already own with insecticides and buying another 400,000 nets laced with insecticides that last up to five years. 
 Volunteers handed out the nets to families with children under age 5 in more than 100 camps, like the one where Phillip Odong lived his short life, for people who have fled the Lord's Resistance Army, a ruthless rebel group that has terrorized the countryside. The volunteers, many of them peasants, were trained by United States-financed groups led by the JSI Research and Training Institute.
 The nets were so sought after in some camps that families whose children were too old to qualify for them besieged health officials. ''They packed the health center like firewood,'' said Suzanne Nyedo, a nurse at the Bobi camp. 
 Even as policies begin to change, many uncertainties remain. 
 For example, the United States aid agency has asked for bids on a five-year $150 million contract for indoor spraying of insecticides.
 Michael Miller, a senior official at the agency, said contractors would hire Africans to do the spraying. He said the goal was to ensure that Africans also gained the know-how to run insecticide spraying programs.
 Mr. Attaran, a harsh critic of the agency, has his doubts.
 ''Will there be a Halliburton of mosquito control?'' he asked. ''If there is, the effort will fail. To be cost-effective, it will need to use local labor and managers.'' 
 Others warn that the changes are not a panacea. 
 Andrew Natsios, who helped devise the new policy before resigning as administrator of the United States aid agency earlier this year, cautioned that malaria projects will need to provide much more than just nets and sprays. 
 ''It's not only simplistic, it won't work over the longer term because the countries can't sustain it on their own'' for lack of expertise and resources, he said. The aid agency has a crucial role, he argued, in providing technical advice and training.
 And there are other questions. Will donors follow through on financing? Will families use the mosquito nets? Will there be enough health workers to deliver medicines?
 ''There's potential for incredible impact,'' said Dr. Regina Rabinovich of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, ''or incredible failure.'' 

Tomorrow: An unusual partnership between businesses and governments becomes a model for Africa.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Donors, joined by a $31 billion gift from Warren E. Buffett to the Gates Foundation, are reshaping failed approaches to global diseases like malaria. In Gulu, Uganda, 2-year-old Mustafa Abe gets a drip for quinine. (Photo by Mariella Furrer for The New York Times)(pg. A1): In a Gulu hospital, Margaret Ajok's daughter Sharon, 9 months old, has malaria. They had no net.
 For $1 a year, nets keep malaria from children. Jennifer Akwongo, in Gulu, Uganda, has six children at risk. (Photographs by Mariella Furrer for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CHILDREN (88%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); INSECTICIDES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Malaria; Children and Youth; Mosquitoes; Surveys and Series; Malaria

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (72%) Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (69%); BILL GATES (64%); TOM COBURN (50%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (50%) Celia W Dugger; Bill Gates; Warren E Buffett

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UGANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



584 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: The Buffett Memorial Column

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN the news about Warren Buffett's huge gift to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation started coming out the other night, I figured there must be something that I was missing. He's giving away $31 billion, and he's not getting a single thing named for himself? 
 Some people write a $10,000 check to their alma mater and expect to get a plaque celebrating their generosity, and here was Mr. Buffett making a gift that will effectively send $10,000 to the Gates Foundation every three minutes for decades on end. For that amount of money, he could have founded Buffett University in his native Nebraska with an endowment larger than Harvard's, or he could have set up the world's richest foundation -- the Buffett Foundation -- and engaged in a little competitive philanthropy with his fellow bridge player Mr. Gates.
 Instead, by announcing that he would more than double the holdings of the Gates Foundation, Mr. Buffett made the point that giving away money should be more about results than ego. He spoke in simple terms as he hopscotched around Manhattan with Mr. and Mrs. Gates on Monday -- saying that he wanted his money to do the most good and comparing their three-way partnership to a marriage -- but there was obviously a hard-headed philosophy behind his decision. 
 If this sounds familiar, it's because it also describes Mr. Buffett's approach to investing, which is the reason he has all that money to begin with. He buys the stocks of basic, underappreciated companies, like Dairy Queen and Gillette, confident that the conventional wisdom has created opportunities for those willing to defy it. Along the way, he dispenses kernels of wisdom like ''Never ask the barber if you need a haircut.'' This is the Buffett way of investing, the subject of books and magazine hagiographies. 
 As he spoke about his record gift this week, it struck me that he was also outlining a Buffett way of divesting. He was essentially sketching out a few simple rules for giving money away, rules that apply just as well to people who give $100 or $1,000 at a time. 
 It's a good time for the rules, too. A lot of foundations are slowly, often fitfully, trying to do a better job measuring results, and the ones that do it right deserve support. So with an invitation to Mr. Buffett to edit the rules as he sees fits, here they are:
 There are cheaper ways to make yourself feel good than giving money away. 
 This may sound harsh, because a dollar given to charity is still a dollar that can help somebody, regardless of the motive. But one of the biggest reasons for the inefficiency of foundations is that they too often put donors' feelings above real-world results. Buildings that can be named find a sponsor more easily than medicines consumed in far-off places.
 A recent study found that donors to a big nonprofit group gave no more money when there was a three-to-one matching gift than when there was only a one-to-one matching gift. That's because even modest donors often focus more on how a gift makes them feel than on what it will accomplish, noted John A. List, a University of Chicago economist who worked on the study.
 Mr. Buffett, though, apparently wasn't worried about whether Americans would be speaking his name a century from now, the way we still say Carnegie and Rockefeller today. Just as other people give their money to Mr. Buffett so he can invest it, he was turning to the Gateses, he told them Monday, because, ''You can give it away better than I can.''
 Their foundation is one of those leading the way in setting clearly expressed goals -- with a reduction in deaths from AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis getting much of the money -- for which it can be held accountable. It's something that all donors should demand from their favorite causes.
 Have fun, or find something else to do.
 Mr. Gates mentioned this week that Mr. Buffett had once given him a copy of ''The Gospel of Wealth,'' Andrew Carnegie's famous essay on the moral necessity of giving away a large fortune. But the truth is that Mr. Buffett has never shown much passion for philanthropy. 
 For years, he said that his money wouldn't be given away until after he died, and even this week he made clear that he wouldn't spend time on philanthropy at the expense of his beloved company, Berkshire Hathaway. ''It's like me quitting Cherry Coke and hamburgers. I mean, it ain't gonna happen,'' he said. 
 Mr. Buffett used the word ''fun'' on Monday to describe his day job. Mr. Gates used it to talk about philanthropy. That's why Mr. Buffett is letting his money be spent mainly on the Gateses' priorities, medicine and high school education, two areas that haven't exactly been pet issues of Mr. Buffett's. 
 The time to get interested is when no one else is. 
 This rule comes straight from Mr. Buffett's mouth. It's his description of how to be a value investor, somebody who buys stocks that other investors disdain. And it's fair to call the Gates Foundation, which has focused its giving on poor countries, the world's most important value philanthropist.
 Less than 8 percent of Americans' charitable giving goes overseas, according to Geneva Global, which advises donors on where to give money. There is just one shelter in all of Honduras for battered women and only one in Montenegro, a crossroads of the global sex trade, for women being trafficked across borders. More than a million people, most of them children, die every year from malaria, a treatable disease.
 At Monday's news conference, a reporter brought up the ghost of Microsoft's antitrust troubles and then asked Mr. Buffett whether he wasn't turning the Gates Foundation -- which will soon have to give away $3 billion a year -- into another behemoth. 
 ''When you've got billions of people who have been dealt a terrible hand in life,'' Mr. Buffett replied, ''that is not something that $3 billion a year is too much money for.''
 Make mistakes. Lots of them. Then talk about them.
 The problems being tackled by the Gates Foundation are enormously complex, involving science, politics and economics, and a lot of smart people have already taken a stab at them. Success won't come from playing it safe.
 ''You can bat a thousand in this game by doing nothing important,'' said Mr. Buffett, who often compares his investing strategy to the hitting approach of Ted Williams (career batting average .344). ''The occasional home run will far overshadow the cost of the mistakes.''
 Some thoughtful scientists have argued that the foundation could save more lives with simple steps like buying more mosquito nets, rather than searching for vaccines. But it's hard not to admire the Gateses' boldness, especially since the foundation is willing to admit mistakes. Its case studies include self-criticisms, like the fact that it underestimated the cost of distributing an antibiotic for black fever in India.
 ''If you don't concede you have failed, everything is suspect,'' Vartan Gregorian, the president of the Carnegie Corporation, told me. 
 Which is one last Buffett-like theme. Whether you're making money or getting rid of it, a little humility goes a long way.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (92%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%) Philanthropy; Biographical Information

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (91%) Berkshire Hathaway; Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); BILL GATES (79%); MELINDA GATES (79%) David Leonhardt; Warren E Buffett; Bill (William H) Gates; Melinda Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



585 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Nominee Gives Few Specifics on Bush Priorities 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24 

 BODY:
Henry M. Paulson Jr., President Bush's nominee for Treasury secretary, cautiously avoided any hints on Tuesday about the administration's economic priorities for the remainder of Mr. Bush's term.
 Testifying at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Paulson reiterated Mr. Bush's general views on the need for low taxes, budget restraint, increased American competitiveness and the use of persuasion rather than threats in dealing with China on economic issues.
 But Mr. Paulson, the chairman of Goldman Sachs, carefully avoided specifics on most policy issues or any mention of prospects for reviving some of Mr. Bush's economic goals -- like overhauling the income tax -- that have languished for the last two years. 
 ''Having good ideas is one thing,'' Mr. Paulson said in response to questions about a tax overhaul. ''Having good ideas that are doable is another thing.''
 Though lawmakers in both parties said Mr. Paulson was all but assured of being confirmed, perhaps later this week, his tentative performance on Tuesday seemed in contrast with his build-up by administration officials as a major power player in an arena where White House officials have dominated all the crucial decisions.
 Administration officials wooed Mr. Paulson, who earned $35 million at Goldman last year, in part with assurances that he would play a more central role than either of his two predecessors -- Paul H. O'Neill, who was fired in part for his headstrong attitudes; and John W. Snow, who spent most of his time as a salesman rather than architect of Mr. Bush's policies.
 Mr. Paulson, 60, rejected some of the White House's initial overtures to become Treasury secretary. When Mr. Bush announced his choice of Mr. Paulson on May 31, the president described him as his ''principal adviser on the broad range of domestic and international economic issues.''
 But on Tuesday, Mr. Paulson stuck to generalities: keeping taxes low, maintaining flexibility in the capital markets, fighting a ''creeping regulatory expansion,'' addressing an anticipated surge of spending on Social Security and Medicare as the nation's baby boomers enter retirement, and improving competitiveness in world markets.
 He also alluded at least twice to the limited time left -- two and a half years -- in Mr. Bush's presidency.
 Much like his predecessor, Mr. Paulson rebuffed calls for trimming some of Mr. Bush's tax cuts to reduce the deficit. 
 ''I think it would be a big mistake to increase taxes,'' he told Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, adding that the deficit, which is hovering around $300 billion a year, is ''within the realm of historical norms'' as a share of the gross domestic product.
 Mr. Paulson faced sharp questioning from both Republicans and Democrats about the administration's efforts to stop abusive tax shelters and to reduce the so-called tax gap -- as much as $350 billion a year, according to Congressional estimates -- in taxes that are owed but not paid.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, complained that the Internal Revenue Service, which is part of Treasury, had ''fallen down on the job'' in offering incentives to whistle-blowers who could expose tax cheating.
 Mr. Paulson is reported to have a net worth of about $700 million, including about $470 million in Goldman Sachs shares. He has said he will sell his holdings in Goldman Sachs to comply with the government's conflict-of-interest rules.
 Mr. Grassley said his staff, which scrutinized Mr. Paulson's tax returns, had found no evidence that he had used tax shelters. 
 In response to questions from Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, Mr. Paulson promised to review a secret program to investigate and track terrorists that relies on an international database that includes Americans' banking transactions.
 If confirmed, Mr. Paulson said that he would make sure he thoroughly understood the law covering the program.
 One of the few moments of direct personal conflict between lawmakers and Mr. Paulson was not about policy but about Mr. Paulson's role as chairman of the Nature Conservancy, an environmental organization that buys land to prevent it from being developed.
 The Nature Conservancy came under heavy criticism several years ago, because some of its deals allowed people to take big tax deductions for contributions of land and yet also allowed significant development projects.
 Mr. Paulson pushed through major changes at the Nature Conservancy as well as a settlement of disputes with the Internal Revenue Service.
 But on Tuesday, Mr. Grassley complained that the Nature Conservancy had refused to release the details of the I.R.S. settlement. 
 Mr. Paulson said he was ''only one member'' of the board, and that the chief executive of the Nature Conservancy wanted to keep the settlement out of the public eye by having the Internal Revenue Service give the Senate Finance Committee details under the cloak of confidentiality.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At his confirmation hearing yesterday, Henry M. Paulson dismissed suggestions of tax cuts but avoided hinting at his own economic priorities. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX REFORM (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); BABY BOOMERS (60%) United States Economy; Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department; Treasury Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%) Henry M Jr Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



586 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

KPMG RULING In a case involving KPMG, a federal judge ruled that a tactic used by prosecutors to crack down on corporate corruption violated the constitutional rights of employees, a decision that may change the way the government pursues white-collar cases. [Page C1.] 


ANGER OVER UNIVISION OUTCOME A consortium of private equity firms won an auction for Univision with a $12.3 billion bid, prompting a rival suitor, Grupo Televisa of Mexico, to contend that it had been deliberately shunned in favor of a lesser bid. What Televisa plans to do next is unclear, but inside the company the anger is boiling. [C1.]

DOCTORS AND CHARITIES Around the country, doctors in private practice have set up tax-exempt charities into which drug companies and medical device makers are, with little fanfare, pouring donations -- money that adds up to millions of dollars a year. And some medical experts see that as a big problem. [A1.]

ZERO PERCENT FROM G.M. General Motors will offer zero percent financing on most 2006 models over the Independence Day weekend. [C6.]

NEW WELFARE RULES The Bush administration plans to issue rules that will require states to move much larger numbers of poor people from welfare to work. [A14.]

TREASURY NOMINEE TESTIFIES Henry M. Paulson Jr., President Bush's nominee for Treasury secretary, cautiously avoided any hints yesterday about the administration's economic priorities for the remainder of Mr. Bush's term. [C3.]

NO HARVARD DONATION Lawrence J. Ellison, chief executive of the Oracle Corporation and one of the world's wealthiest people, has decided not to donate $115 million to Harvard as he announced he would last year, the company confirmed. [C5.]

PRESSURE ON JAPAN BANK Toshihiko Fukui, the governor of the Bank of Japan, is under mounting pressure to resign after revealing that he invested in a stock fund run by an executive who was later indicted for insider trading. The scandal has threatened the reputation of the bank. [C3.]

STOCKS SLUMP The Dow dropped 120.54 points, to 10,924.74, on fears about interest rates. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 11.36 points, to 1,239.20, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 33.42 points, to 2,100.25. [C13.]

GAME MAKER'S WOES The video game publisher Take-Two Interactive, which surprised investors by disclosing it had received criminal grand jury subpoenas inquiring into a range of its business practices, has shown signs since early this year that it continues to struggle with problems that have plagued it since 2001. [C7.]

NORTEL PLANS TO CUT JOBS As part of a continuing struggle to restore its financial health, Nortel Networks, the Canadian telecommunications equipment and software company, announced that it would cut a net 1,100 jobs while creating 800 jobs, mainly at new, lower cost-facilities in Mexico and Turkey. [C6.]

CO-OP PRICE DISCLOSURE The prices paid for co-op apartments in New York City could be made public for the first time under a bill passed last week by the state Legislature. [B1.]

UNIONIZING CHILD CARE WORKERS The New York Legislature is poised to override Gov. George E. Pataki's veto and give 52,000 home child-care providers, now independent contractors, the right to organize. [B1.]

HONDA PLANT IN INDIANA Indiana has apparently emerged as the winner in the race to land Honda's newest plant in North America. [C6.]

MINICAR FOR THE U.S. DaimlerChrysler, which shelved an earlier plan to bring its Smart minicar brand to the United States, plans to announce that it will introduce the tiny two-seat vehicle to the American market early in 2008, according to executives at the company. Dieter Zetsche, left, the chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, had considered selling the Smart brand before settling for yet another overhaul last March. [C1.]

NETWORK AD FORECAST Advance advertising sales for the fall television season are likely to be down for a second year in a row, reflecting the impact of new media outlets. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C5.]

ONLINE

PLANNING TO COOL EARTH Futuristic ways to fight global warming, including sunshades in space, are being considered. A report is at nytimes.com/science.

ONLINE: DEALBOOK A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

VERISIGN, CNET NETWORKS and Cyberonics joined the ranks of companies prosecutors are investigating for stock option grants. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

SECURITIES REGULATORS said that Morgan Stanley & Company Inc. had agreed to pay $10 million to settle charges of inadequate procedures to prevent the misuse of insider information. (REUTERS)

INTEL SAID IT WOULD SELL its division that makes processors for hand-held gadgets to the Marvell Technology Group for $600 million in cash. (ASSOCIATED PRESS)

NBC IS TEAMING with YouTube, a popular video Web site, to promote its new shows. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Univision shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); INSIDER TRADING (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); EXPERT WITNESSES (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); MEDICAL DEVICES (69%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (69%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KPMG (94%); ORACLE CORP (82%); GRUPO TELEVISA SA (72%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (51%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%); TV (NYSE) (72%); TLEVISA (BMV) (72%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (94%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%); HENRY PAULSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



587 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: New Media Luring Money Away From Networks

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
ADVANCE advertising sales for the fall television season will probably be down for a second year in a row, reflecting the growing impact of new media outlets on broadcasters.
 Estimates are that the five networks will sell $8.9 billion to $9 billion in commercial time ahead of the 2006-7 season, in what is known as the upfront market.
That compares with an estimated $9.1 billion sold in the upfront market last year, before the start of the 2005-6 season, and an estimated $9.3 billion in the upfront market two years ago, ahead of the 2004-5 season. 
 ''I'm surprised it's two years in a row,'' said Wayne Friedman, West Coast editor at MediaPost Communications, which covers the media business through online (mediapost.com) and offline publications. ''Most of the time, it's the networks holding all the cards.''
 Along with TV, newspapers and other traditional media are scrambling to adjust as marketers step up efforts to reach consumers in newer ways that include Web sites, podcasts and video-on-demand.
 ''The broadcast environment remains tough,'' Debra Schwartz, a media analyst for Credit Suisse, wrote in a report.
 The totals are not complete because only three of the five networks -- the new CW, Fox Broadcasting and NBC -- have completed their sales. Fox, part of the News Corporation, and CW, owned by the CBS Corporation and Time Warner, finished late last week. 
 NBC, part of the NBC Universal division of the General Electric Company, finished on Monday.
 The remaining two networks -- ABC, owned by the Walt Disney Company, and CBS -- are still negotiating with advertisers and agencies. They are expected to finish by Friday, if not sooner.
 ''People would like to go off for the Fourth of July and be done,'' said an executive at one network.
 In some recent years, when demand from advertisers was particularly strong, the upfront market was completed by Memorial Day. 
 In other, less frenetic years, the bargaining continued until around Independence Day. Occasionally, when demand was especially soft, the upfront market muddled through the summer and ended by Labor Day.
 For decades, the broadcasters took in more during each upfront market than the one before, except when recessions dampened advertiser demand. That reflected a relentless focus on using mass media to reach consumers quickly.
 Now, marketers' desire to explore alternatives, particularly digital media, is leading them to divert ad dollars from television or to add money to their budgets specifically for new media.
 That significant change has not escaped the attention of the broadcast networks. They are offering marketers opportunities to buy commercial time or ad space in places away from the TV set.
 NBC, for instance, has booked an estimated $50 million in digital revenue separate from the broadcast airwaves, said Randy Falco, president and chief operating officer at the NBC Universal Television Group in New York.
 An additional $200 million in commercial time that NBC sold during the upfront market was attached to digital deals, Mr. Falco said. NBC sold an estimated $1.9 billion in commercial time in the upfront market, about even with last year.
 ''We feel very good about where we are, being flat in a down market,'' Mr. Falco said.
 The NBC total of $1.9 billion includes an estimated $200 million in revenue from its new ''Sunday Night Football'' broadcasts, and the preshows, which start in September. Some industry analysts are reluctant to count football revenue in the upfront market results along with revenue from entertainment programming. Others, however, willingly include it in a network's total.
 Estimates are that when ABC is finished, it will have sold about $2.2 billion in commercial time, an increase from the estimated $2.1 billion it sold during the upfront market last year.
 ABC is radically remaking its prime-time schedule for 2006-7, hoping to build on the success of series like ''Desperate Housewives,'' ''Grey's Anatomy'' and ''Lost'' with nine new series for the fall (and an additional half-dozen waiting in the wings for midseason).
 When CBS is done, estimates call for its total to reach $2.4 billion, about the same as last year. That would give CBS the lead among the broadcasters in total sales for the second year in a row.
 CBS fared well in 2005-6 with returning shows like ''Without a Trace'' and scored with several new series like ''Ghost Whisperer,'' ''How I Met Your Mother'' and ''The Unit.'' 
 Fox sold about $1.8 billion in commercial time, compared with $1.6 billion last year. Fox enjoyed high ratings with mainstay series like ''American Idol'' and ''24'' and newcomers like ''Prison Break.''
 ''Fox is the champion when it comes to charging a premium to reach the 18-to-49 audience,'' said Mr. Friedman of MediaPost, referring to the age group most coveted by advertisers.
 CW, which is replacing the UPN and WB networks, sold about $650 million in commercial time. Last year, WB sold about $625 million and UPN sold about $250 million.
 Because ratings for UPN and WB during the 2005-6 season fell below expectations, few analysts expected CW to do better in the upfront market than matching the WB performance last year.
 During the upfront market, networks sell anywhere from 65 percent to 90 percent of the commercial time in the coming season. They hold back the remainder to sell during the season in what is called the scatter market.
 ''The big question now is really what the scatter market is going to be like,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''Many media buyers are saying they want to wait for the scatter market to evaluate the new-media opportunities the networks are offering.''
 Given the challenging environment the broadcasters are facing, they may consider it a victory that the upfront market is not much lower than last year's.
 ''We believe that when the dust settles on the upfront market, total broadcast upfront-dollars results will be somewhere in the middle of bullish and bearish,'' William Drewry, another analyst for Credit Suisse, wrote in a report.
 Or as Mr. Friedman put it: ''Considering all the alternatives, that the upfront still has the power to do what it does is not so bad. If I were the networks, I'd take the money and run.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fox, which broadcasts ''American Idol,'' above, sold about $1.8 billion in ad time, compared with $1.6 billion last year, but the overall trend in advance sales is down. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (62%); US LABOR DAY (60%); PODCASTING (52%) Television; Advertising and Marketing; Sales

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); NEWS CORP (82%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (82%); CBS CORP (82%); WALT DISNEY CO (66%); MEDIAPOST SA (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); GNE (PAR) (82%); GEC (LSE) (82%); GE (SWX) (82%); GE (NYSE) (82%); CBS (NYSE) (82%); DIS (NYSE) (66%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (66%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (66%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006



588 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Forecaster Cuts Estimate for Growth in Ad Spending 

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
A LEADING forecaster of advertising spending has lowered his estimate for growth in the United States in 2006.
 The forecaster, Robert J. Coen, attributed the reduction to the continuing weakness in demand for ads in local media, along with soft demand from national advertisers in media like newspapers.
Mr. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York, estimated that ad spending this year would increase by 5.6 percent from 2005. His two previous forecasts, made in June and December of last year, called for increases of 5.8 percent. 
 ''Information we see at the local level continues to be pretty dreary,'' Mr. Coen said during his annual midyear presentation, which took place yesterday in Midtown Manhattan.
 One problem Mr. Coen cited, in a report that accompanied his presentation, was the disappearance of local retailers like drugstores and hardware stores as they were absorbed by ''huge national entities.'' 
 That consolidation results in ''a seriously reduced number of local advertiser prospects for many media,'' Mr. Coen wrote, ''with most of the remaining local entrepreneurs surviving'' by taking steps like cutting their ad budgets.
 Mr. Coen shaved his estimate for ad spending growth in local media to 3.1 percent, from an increase of 4 percent he forecast in December.
 As for the slowdown in demand from national advertisers like automakers for ads in newspapers, Mr. Coen said, ''It doesn't look very rosy.''
 ''They're all breaking their back to make money off their online ads,'' he said of newspapers. ''I don't think that's going to solve their problems.''
 Mr. Coen leavened his more negative prediction for this year with a more upbeat forecast for next year. In his first estimate for 2007, Mr. Coen predicted a gain of 5.8 percent in ad spending, to $303 billion, from the $286.4 billion he is now forecasting for 2006.
 Mr. Coen has worked since 1948 for Universal McCann and predecessor agencies, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies, and is widely considered the dean of ad forecasters. He slyly referred to his status at one point during his presentation when he began a sentence by saying, ''I remember, back in 1950,'' then paused and added, ''And nobody can argue with me about that.''
 Mr. Coen typically offers predictions twice a year, in June and December, adjusting and updating his figures as additional data arrive.
 Yesterday, in fact, Mr. Coen significantly revised downward his figure for ad spending growth in 2005 compared with 2004. He reduced the increase to 2.8 percent, from his most recent estimate of 4.6 percent.
 Mr. Coen said he made the change because of an unexpected fourth-quarter slowdown in demand among marketers for commercial time and ad space, caused by higher energy costs and the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 ''It was a pretty poor year,'' Mr. Coen said, because as 2005 was ending ''advertisers seemed to have put a lid on their spending.'' 
 By contrast, ''some of the uncertainties and supercautiousness'' that have recently been hurting growth in ad spending are likely to clear up next year, he added.
 Among the industries that Mr. Coen expects to spend heavily on ads in 2006 are those that have ''tremendous competition'' among companies, he said, like insurance and telecommunications.
 Mr. Coen also forecast that spending in traditional media by dot-com companies would increase a strong 25 percent, to $4.6 billion this year, from $3.7 billion last year.
 He predicted that spending this year for national advertising on the Internet would also grow by 25 percent from 2005, to $9.7 billion. The figure does not include spending for search advertising, which Mr. Coen does not track.
 The reduction that Mr. Coen made in his total for ad spending last year, to $271.1 billion, from $276 billion, also affected his forecast for total spending in 2006 and how much it would increase from 2005.
 Mr. Coen's revisions echoed some other recent forecasts that have been trimmed from earlier, more bullish levels. 
 For example, on June 13, TNS Media Intelligence, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres, lowered its estimate for ad spending growth this year to 4.9 percent, from an estimate of 5.4 percent made in January.
 Mr. Coen's revised estimate for 2006 put his forecast more in line with those of other analysts. For example, Leland Westerfield, a managing director at BMO Capital Markets in New York, predicts ad spending growth this year of 4.5 percent.
 ''Local radio and newspapers are the soft points in the advertising market year to date,'' said Mr. Westerfield, who follows broadcasting and Internet media.
 As for Mr. Coen's more optimistic prediction for 2007, Mr. Westerfield said, ''it looks very generous.'' His forecast is for an increase in ad spending next year of less than 4 percent compared with 2006.
 Mr. Coen, in his presentation, said he was also surprised by a softness in demand earlier this year for commercial time on national cable television networks. As a result, he cut his estimate for growth in ad spending in cable TV to an increase of 4.5 percent, compared with a previous estimate of a gain of 7 percent.
 Mr. Coen's new total for 2005 of $271.1 billion is composed of $172.8 billion in national advertising, up 3.4 percent from 2004, and $98.3 billion in local advertising, up 1.7 percent. His new forecast for 2006 of $286.4 billion is composed of $185.1 billion in national ads, up 7.1 percent, and $101.3 billion in local ads, up 3.1 percent.
 For 2005, ad spending represented 2.17 percent of gross domestic product, Mr. Coen said, which he predicted would decline to 2.16 percent in 2006. 
 If his forecast is accurate, that would be the lowest since the 2.12 percent level reached in both 1992 and 1993. The recent peak was 2.52, during the dot-com boom year of 2000.
 Mr. Coen also offered totals and estimates for ad spending abroad, where growth has been outpacing that of the United States. He predicted particularly robust gains in Brazil, Russia, India and China. Ad spending in 2006 is expected to rise by 23 percent in Brazil, 32 percent in Russia, 13 percent in India and 20 percent in China.
 For 2005, ad spending abroad totaled $298 billion, Mr. Coen said, up 6.5 percent from 2004. His new forecast for 2006 is $316 billion, up 6 percent from 2005, and slightly higher than his forecasts last year of $312 billion in December and $313 billion in June.
 Mr. Coen's final grand total for worldwide ad spending last year is $569.1 billion, up 4.7 percent from 2004. His new total estimate for 2006 is $602.4 billion, up 5.8 percent from 2005.
 If that happens, it would be the first time that worldwide ad spending has crossed the $600 billion mark. It passed the $500 billion level just two years ago, reaching $543.6 million in 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Advertising Spending''Robert J. Coen, a leading forecaster of advertising spending, has reduced his estimate of ad spending in the United States in 2006. He also readjusted his final figure for 2005, lowering it significantly to a gain of only 2.8 percent from 2004 rather than a gain of 4.6 percent.FORECAST YEAR 2005DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: Dec. 2004SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: $280.6DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: June 2005SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: 278.8DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: Dec. 2005SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: 276.0DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: June 2006SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: 271.12006DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: June 2005SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: $295.0DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: Dec. 2005SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: 292.0DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: June 2006SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: 286.42007DATES FORECAST WERE MADE: June 2006SPENDING, IN BILLIONS: $303.0(Source by Universal McCann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (93%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HARDWARE STORES (68%); RETAILERS (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%) Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Robert J Coen; Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



589 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Estate Tax Bill Could Hurt Charities 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
If the estate tax bill approved last week by the House becomes law, it will benefit wealthy families and cost the government a lot of tax revenue. But there are likely to be other winners and losers as well. Charities may find it harder to get donations and some heirs may have to wait years or even decades longer to collect inheritances, while surviving wives or husbands receive larger inheritances. 
 States that impose estate taxes will face new pressures to repeal them, because the federal government will no longer reduce its estate tax bill for those who owe state estate tax. 
The bill faces an uncertain fate in the Senate, where a move to cut off debate on a bill to repeal estate taxes fell just three votes short. House leaders, who had wanted a complete repeal, pushed through the bill that was approved in the hope that it would pick up additional Senate votes.
 Under current law, a person who dies in 2006 can leave up to $2 million to heirs without incurring estate tax. In addition, unlimited amounts can be left to a surviving spouse and to charities without incurring tax.
 Advisers to wealthy people often tell them to leave the maximum exemption amount to heirs, with the remainder going to the surviving spouse. When that spouse dies, another $2 million can be left to heirs tax-free. If the first spouse to die leaves everything to the surviving spouse, then only a total of $2 million can be passed on to heirs tax-free.
 Under the House bill, the exemption rises to $5 million, and is indexed to inflation in later years. But the important change for heirs is that the spousal provision becomes portable. If the first spouse to die leaves everything to the survivor, that person will have a $10 million exemption upon his or her death.
 The practical effect of that could be to delay bequests to children, said Evelyn Capassakis, a tax expert at PricewaterhouseCoopers. Rather than get some money when one parent dies, and the rest when the other dies, they might have to wait until both are dead.
 Charities now get billions of dollars in bequests from estates each year. How much of that money flows from generosity, and how much from a desire to reduce taxes, is impossible to know. But in 2004, 47 percent of estates of more than $10 million that were required to pay taxes had at least some charitable contributions, in contrast to just 22 percent of such estates that escaped taxation.
 With higher exemptions, it seems likely that the level of donations from estates could fall sharply. For those with no estate tax liability, tax advisers would be likely to recommend that any giving be done before death, when there would be a deduction that could reduce income taxes.
 One aspect of the current law that would be preserved by the House bill is a step-up in basis for capital assets. Under current law, when a person leaves assets to an heir, the heir's tax basis is the worth of the asset when the person died, regardless of what was paid for it. The step-up in basis is important because it means that any actual pre-inheritance appreciation is not subject to capital gains tax. That would continue.
 But under current law there is also one year, 2010, in which there will be no estate tax, before it returns the following year. (That provision was needed to make the numbers work when the tax laws were changed in 2001.) In 2010, only $1.3 million in assets can be eligible for a stepped-up basis. Other assets would pass to heirs tax-free, but would retain the original cost basis.
 Thus, if an entrepreneur died in 2010 with stock in a family business worth $10.3 million that had cost only $10,000 when the company was started 30 years earlier, there would be no estate tax, but the heirs would owe capital gains tax on virtually the entire proceeds above $1.3 million if they sold the stock. Those heirs would be far better off with the House bill than with the complete repeal.
 Assets that have gained in value but are not sold before death now escape the capital gains tax entirely. Since the House bill calls for an estate tax rate equal to the capital gains rate on estates from $5 million to $25 million, in effect many taxable estates would be simply paying the taxes that would have been owed had assets been sold before death. Estates over $25 million would face a tax rate of double the capital gains rate on the excess amount.
 The tax rate on long-term capital gains is now 15 percent. If it were to rise, the estate tax rate would also increase.
 Until 2001, the federal estate tax law allowed a credit for state estate taxes paid, up to certain limits. Most states imposed the maximum allowed, which had no effect on taxpayers because it merely redirected money from the federal government to the states.
 Since 2001, however, the law has allowed only a deduction, rather than a credit, for state estate taxes. So an estate that owed $1 million in state estate taxes could reduce the amount of estate subject to federal taxation by that amount. Since the maximum federal estate tax was 46 percent, that meant that at most that would save the taxpayer $460,000 in federal estate taxes.
 But under the House bill, there will be no credit or deduction for state estate taxes, meaning that there will be no savings. That will increase the incentive for the wealthy to move to states without state estate taxes, like Florida, and it will also put pressure on state governments to reduce or eliminate their taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); TAX LAW (92%); ESTATE PLANNING (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); APPROVALS (89%); WILLS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PHILANTHROPY (77%) Taxation; Philanthropy; Law and Legislation; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Taxation

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



590 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Looking for the Incentives That Will Prompt Americans to Save More

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS are in almost universal agreement that Americans save too little, and several policies have been proposed with the goal of encouraging them to save more. 
 The Bush administration favors increasing contribution limits on tax-deferred savings accounts like I.R.A.'s. Critics argue that there would be little impact on total savings from such policies, since wealthy households would simply transfer assets from taxable accounts to tax-sheltered accounts.
Leaving aside the behavior of high-income households, responsible members of both parties recognize that providing better incentives to low-income people is the most challenging problem. How can we get this group to save more? 
 It is possible for low- and middle-income groups to increase savings. After a detailed examination of the financial circumstances of people close to retirement, two economists, Stephen F. Venti of Dartmouth and David A. Wise of Harvard, concluded that the primary reason for differences in retirement assets was differences in propensities to save. It is not unusual to see low-income households with high savings rates holding more financial assets at retirement than high-income households who saved a smaller fraction of their income. 
 One promising proposal has been to set defaults for enrollment in 401(k) plans so that employees are automatically enrolled in an appropriate plan unless they explicitly choose otherwise. Brigitte C. Madrian, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania, and Dennis F. Shea, from the UnitedHealth Group, have found that this simple policy increases participation rates dramatically. 
 Another suggestion is to provide matching grants to low-income individuals. Esther Duflo of M.I.T., William G. Gale and Peter Orszag of the Brookings Institution, Jeffrey B. Liebman of Harvard and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley, recently released a working paper examining the design of such a plan. (''Saving Incentives for Low- and Middle-Income Families: Evidence From a Field Experiment With H&R Block''; a nontechnical summary is available at http://www.nber.org/digest/may06/w11680.html.)
 In this experiment, about 14,000 low- and middle-income families in the St. Louis area were offered a 20 percent match on their contributions to an I.R.A., a 50 percent match or no match at all. Individuals could make a direct contribution or allocate part of their tax refund to an Express I.R.A. account offered by H&R Block. 
 Only 3 percent of the individuals who had no match -- the control group -- contributed to an I.R.A. But 8 percent of those with a 20 percent match rate contributed, and 14 percent of those with a 50 percent match contributed. The amount contributed was four times as much as the control group for the 20 percent match rate and seven times as much for the 50 percent match rate. 
 These figures exclude the matching funds; they refer only to the individuals' own contributions. Including the matching contributions raises the contribution amounts to 4.5 and 10 times as much, respectively. And most people stuck with their plans: four months after the initial contribution, over 90 percent of the individuals still kept the money in their I.R.A.'s.
 These effects are far larger than those of the Saver's Credit, an existing program that provides a tax credit based on the amount of tax-deferred savings. The problem is that a tax credit is useful only if you pay taxes, and many low-income individuals have little or no tax liability after other deductions and credits are applied.
 Furthermore, the Saver's Credit is complicated and hard to understand. A matching contribution to a savings program is much easier to comprehend. 
 The H&R Block Express I.R.A. program shows that savings incentives can work, though the specific H&R Block program was the subject of a lawsuit filed March 15 by the New York attorney general's office. The suit accused H&R Block of fraudulent marketing of the Express I.R.A.'s, contending that the disclosure of fees was inadequate.
 The fees were not terribly high ($15 to set up an account, $10 each year for maintenance of accounts under $1,000). But since short-term interest rates have been low for the last couple of years, those who contributed only a few hundred dollars actually lost money since the interest earned could easily be less than the fees.
 It may be true that ordinary bank savings accounts are better than I.R.A.'s for individuals who can contribute only a small amount, and one would hope that such individuals would be given appropriate recommendations. 
 But for those who can contribute more, I.R.A.'s can be a very attractive savings vehicle, particularly if coupled with the strong incentives provided by a matching grant program. 
 As the authors put it, ''Taken together, our results suggest that the combination of a clear and understandable match for saving, easily accessible savings vehicles, the opportunity to use part of an income tax refund to save, and professional assistance could generate a significant increase in contributions to retirement accounts, including among middle- and low-income households.''
 Matching grants also have a long and venerable history as an American institution. They were invented by none other than Benjamin Franklin in conjunction with his fund-raising efforts for the Pennsylvania Hospital, the first public hospital in America, established in 1751.
 Franklin persuaded the legislature to participate by indicating that it would receive ''the credit of being charitable without the expense'' and explained to the donors that ''every man's contribution would be doubled.'' No doubt the sage of Philadelphia would heartily approve of his innovation being used to encourage the virtue of thrift.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); MATCHING GIFTS (57%) United States Economy; Savings

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (54%); H & R BLOCK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (54%); HRB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (57%) Hal R Varian; Stephen F Venti; David Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



591 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Oil Helps Energy Shares Lead Mild Rally

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks advanced yesterday, led by gains in energy companies from rising oil prices. But the gains were tempered as investors hesitated to place major bets a day before the Federal Reserve's statement on the future direction of interest rates.
 Analysts agree that the Fed will raise its target federal funds rate today, and a majority of analysts are leaning toward predicting another rate increase in August. 
In otherwise lackluster trading, oil stocks rose, led by Exxon Mobil, as crude prices rose above $72. Exxon, one of the world's largest oil companies, rose more than 2 percent and was the biggest positive influence on both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 The Dow gained 48.82 points, or 0.45 percent, to finish at 10,973.56. The S.& P. 500 added 6.80 points, or 0.55 percent, to end at 1,246. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 11.59 points, or 0.55 percent, to close at 2,111.84.
 In bond trading, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined 10/32, to 99 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 5.24 percent, after 5.20 percent on Tuesday.
 The Fed is expected to lift its benchmark fed funds rate a quarter-percentage point, to 5.25 percent, today at the end of a two-day meeting. It would be the 17th such increase in two years. Even more important, the Fed will issue a statement that may give clues about future rate increases.
 The wording of the Fed's statement has kept investors uncertain amid lingering concerns that the central bank's credit tightening will slow economic growth and hurt corporate profits.
 In late trading, shares of the Walt Disney Company were unchanged after it said it had chosen a former chairman and chief executive of Procter & Gamble, John E. Pepper, to serve as nonexecutive chairman. Disney shares closed at $29.38, down 3 cents, in regular trading.
 Crude oil for August delivery rose 27 cents to settle at $72.19 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on concern about heavy United States demand for gasoline before the Fourth of July holiday.
 Exxon Mobil shares rose 2.5 percent, or $1.47, to $61.12. Shares of a rival, Chevron, rose 2.1 percent, or $1.26, to $61.36.
 A decline in the shares of Apple Computer, maker of the iPod digital music player, weighed on the Nasdaq. Apple fell 2.5 percent, or $1.41, to $56.02 as some analysts expressed concerns about its financial outlook.
 Shares of the clothing retailer the J. Crew Group rose 27.8 percent, or $5.55, to $25.55 in their debut on the New York Stock Exchange. The initial public offering was priced Tuesday at $20 a share.
 Intel, the semiconductor maker, rose 3.4 percent, or 61 cents, to $18.66. Intel said Tuesday that it would sell its money-losing communications-processor business to the Marvell Technology Group for $600 million. Marvell shares fell 4.1 percent, or $1.82, to $42.32.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of five-year notes.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.660
High Yield: 5.203
Low Yield: 5.150
Median Yield: 5.184
Total applied for: $32,190,225
Accepted: $17,500,009
Noncompetitive: $201,125
Interest set at: 5 1/8

The five-year notes mature June 30, 2011.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Five-Year Treasury Notes'' shows high yields at auction since 2005. (Source by Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (63%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (60%); RETAILERS (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); TALKS & MEETINGS (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (75%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); INTEL CORP (51%); J CREW GROUP INC (50%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%); XOM (NYSE) (75%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



592 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Shipping Is Up in Brooklyn, but Future Is Shaky

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Dozens of longshoremen swarmed across the blue-hulled Zim Charleston on Tuesday at the Red Hook container port, unloading 1,150 containers of food, clothing and furniture from India that are bound for Long Island, New York City and New Jersey.
 It was the first of what Zim, one of the world's largest container carriers, says will be a weekly service bringing 90,000 containers a year to Pier 10, more than doubling the current volume and adding an estimated 152 new jobs. 
 But by next April, the city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey are hoping to shut down the container port and the last remnants of Brooklyn's once-bustling cargo piers, while evicting the operator, American Stevedoring. They contend that the freight can be better handled at ports in New Jersey, or at Howland Hook on Staten Island. 
 The city is also interested in residential projects and other maritime uses on the waterfront that could generate thousands of jobs, like the newly opened cruise ship terminal on Pier 12 in Red Hook. 
 Although the Bloomberg administration says it would consider creating a container port in the future, the City Council will vote today on the administration's plan to turn part of the only alternative location -- the long-dormant South Brooklyn Marine Terminal in Sunset Park -- into a giant parking lot.
 Critics like Councilman David Yassky of Brooklyn and Representative Jerrold Nadler said the city's plan to close the Brooklyn port is both wrong and shortsighted. They say the business and the waterfront jobs could be lost forever. And, they say, both New York and New Jersey need every inch of space to handle the rapidly escalating volume of goods entering the harbor.
 ''Shipping creates excellent-paying jobs for people who don't compete in the high-tech economy,'' Mr. Yassky said, ''and it keeps trucks off the roads.''
 But Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff counters that Red Hook is not sustainable because of its small size and lack of rail and highway access.
 ''Our single most important priority is providing jobs for New Yorkers,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We also consider it an important priority to preserve and enhance jobs for dockworkers. That does not mean we have to achieve that by retaining the current uses or current tenants on the piers.''
 Many of Brooklyn's working piers fell out of use in the 1960's after the Port Authority built a modern container port in Elizabeth, N.J. But some cargo piers remained in Red Hook, where a small container operation was created. 
 After separate studies of New York Harbor in the late 1990's, the city and the Port Authority recommended that Red Hook's port continue operating until two larger facilities could be built in Sunset Park, at the defunct South Brooklyn Marine Terminal. They predicted that Brooklyn could capture some overflow from the ports in New Jersey.
 Since then, the volume of containers in the harbor has soared faster than anyone expected -- it is now at 2.8 million containers per year, up 53 percent since 2000 -- as goods have poured in from Asia and the Middle East. And Richard M. Larrabee, director of the authority's port commerce department, expects that number to double over 10 years.
 But Mr. Larrabee and city officials say that Red Hook, which has been supported by Port Authority subsidies of up to $5 million a year, has never been self-sustaining. It is far more important, they say, to upgrade and expand piers elsewhere.
 ''American Stevedoring is not a healthy, self-sustaining business, given its lack of rail and highway access,'' said Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority. ''That doesn't mean that we're abandoning maritime operations.''
 Sal Catucci, the chairman of American Stevedoring, says the Zim deal proves that officials are wrong. The company announced the deal yesterday in The Daily News.
 ''They always say, Brooklyn is dead,'' Mr. Catucci said. ''I'm proving it's not dead. I don't understand their thinking about these jobs. We need them as much as they do in Jersey. This is a viable business.''
 He claimed there were more than 600 jobs on his piers, unloading containers, as well as cocoa, coffee, lumber and steel. There would be more, he said, if government officials did not undermine him at every turn.
 Gordon Kay, an executive vice president of Zim, said that his company decided on Red Hook when it could not find a spot elsewhere. ''We approached the Brooklyn terminal, who gave us attractive terms, when the New Jersey terminal couldn't assist us,'' he said.
 But Mr. Doctoroff challenges Mr. Catucci's job numbers, estimating that there are no more than 110 full-time jobs on the docks.
 Critics of Mr. Doctoroff's alternatives, like the cruise ship terminal, say they are not economic powerhouses. The city initially said the terminal would generate 600 jobs. But the cost soared from $30 million to at least $56 million. There are only 15 full-time jobs today, and 300 others work part time when ships -- 38 a year -- dock there. 
 Yesterday, the Bloomberg administration reached an agreement with the City Council to lease 74 acres at the South Brooklyn Terminal to the Axis Group for an automobile processing center and some cargo operations. Mr. Nadler and council members negotiated successfully to cut the lease to 15 years from 30, so it did not preclude a new container port. 
 ''I'm concerned if we close the port we have in Brooklyn,'' Mr. Nadler said, ''we may never open a new one.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Zim Charleston was unloaded Tuesday at the Red Hook container port in Brooklyn. The city and port officials hope to shut down the port and cargo piers by April. (Photo by Erik Jacobs/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); EVICTION (74%); CRUISES (73%); MAYORS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%) Ships and Shipping ; Ports; Shutdowns (Institutional); Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%) Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Zim (Container carriers)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: JERROLD NADLER (57%) Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%) New York City; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



593 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Business Joins African Effort To Cut Malaria 

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE

DATELINE: BELULUANE, Mozambique 

 BODY:
With malaria spread across southern Mozambique, executives at the international mining company Billiton expected some workers to call in sick as it began building a massive new aluminum smelter amid the cornfields here. 
 What they did not expect was that nearly one in three employees would fall ill -- 6,600 cases in just two years. And they certainly did not expect 13 deaths, not after the company had built a medical clinic, doused the construction site with pesticides and handed out bed nets to thwart malaria-carrying mosquitoes.
''You can imagine, it was a huge disaster,'' said Carlos Mesquita, the general manager. ''We could not deal with that level of absenteeism, and we would have had more fatalities. If we didn't treat malaria we could not operate.'' 
 But confining measures to the plant, executives realized, would not protect their 1,100 employees, or their $1.3 billion investment, so long as malaria raged all around it, including in the capital, Maputo, just 10 miles up the highway. 
 And so one of the world's biggest aluminum producers joined in an exceptional partnership with the governments of three countries and with other businesses to take on malaria systematically across a broad region. Six years later, the scorecard is in. Amazingly, malaria is losing. 
 Wielding a combination of new medicines, better bed nets, old-fashioned pesticides and computer analysis to clean up the most afflicted areas, the smelter and its partners in business and government have turned malaria in one of its former hot spots into a manageable threat. 
 The results are a rare bright spot in fighting a parasitic killer that has thrived in the face of flawed, inadequate programs by African nations and international organizations.
 Last year a United Nations task force singled out the joint effort, which today covers an area the size of Kentucky, as a model for a continent that still has nearly a million malaria deaths a year. The focused effort in southern Mozambique, experts say, may point the way toward a broader and more effective strategy.
 The government of Equatorial Guinea and two American oil companies created a similar program three years ago on Bioko Island, whose offshore oil reserves are a magnet for foreign investors. In the June issue of the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, researchers reported initial declines in infection rates there as well. 
 ''There is a trend in the direction of large-scale malaria control projects financed by the private sector,'' said Brian Sharp, who directs malaria research for the South African Medical Research Council, a quasi-governmental group that studies medical issues. ''It is extremely pleasing to see.'' 
 Southern Mozambique's success, health specialists say, is rooted in two facts: a realization that malaria can be defeated only if campaigns are taken on regionwide, and a commitment by business and government to put up money and wage war until the disease reaches a tipping point of retreat. 
 ''This is the first time in Mozambique we have used the private sector,'' said the country's deputy health minister, Avertino Barreto. ''The results have been terribly good.'' 
 Absences at the plant, once affecting nearly a fifth of the work force, are down to 1 percent. The plant has expanded and doubled its production in the last three years. Even attendance at the nearby primary school is up, officials say. 
 ''We are not suffering from this disease any more here,'' said Mr. Mesquita, a boyish-looking metallurgical engineer of 47 who greets visitors in a worker's gray jumpsuit. 
 Malaria is estimated to shave up to 1.3 percent off Africa's growth annually, a cost of roughly $12 billion a year. Health officials here say it remains Mozambique's leading cause of absenteeism and death, even with the advance of AIDS.
 Hardly a family, farmer, small business or major investor is immune to malaria's impact. Some companies, like in the sugar cane and tobacco industries, have noted the smelter's success and are now eager to imitate it, if for no other reason than it makes rational economic sense. 
 Health surveys in the targeted areas in Swaziland and South Africa show that the incidence of malaria plummeted to fewer than 5 cases per 1,000 people last year, from as many as 66 cases per 1,000 in 1999. 
 In southern Mozambique, surveys show similarly huge drops. Nearly 9 in 10 children who lived near the smelter were infected in 1999. By last June, that had fallen to about 2 in 10, according to the South African Medical Research Council. 
 The malaria control effort now covers an area that is home to four million people and is expanding with the help of $21 million in grants from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis. Still, it reaches only a fraction of Mozambique's population, and health experts say a much greater effort is necessary.
 The continent missed out on the all-out effort to eradicate malaria that killed off the disease in southern Europe, North America and other parts of the world some 50 years ago. Even though international donations to fight malaria more than doubled from 1998 to 2002, sub-Saharan Africa needs three times as much money as it now spends, the World Health Organization estimates. 
 Indeed, the health organization says, malaria became even deadlier in the 1990's in southern and eastern Africa, partly because of weaker efforts to control it and growing resistance to common malaria drugs.
 Children were the most vulnerable: in the 1980's, fewer than one in five deaths among children under 5 in those regions was blamed on malaria. By the late 1990's the toll had climbed to more than one in three. In 2002, 40 percent of outpatients at Mozambique's clinics and 60 percent of children admitted to hospitals suffered from malaria.
 For executives in charge of the aluminum smelter, it was obvious that the disease was far too prevalent to fight alone. Andre van der Bergh, regional health and safety adviser for BHP Billiton, the corporation formed when British-based Billiton merged with Australian-based BHP in 2001, estimates that malaria control issues ate up a third or more of his time until the project got off the ground. 
 ''You cannot operate as an island,'' he said. ''I certainly learned the value of partnerships.'' 
 The government was eager to cooperate. The smelter, known as Mozal -- short for Mozambique aluminum -- was an important symbol that Mozambique, after a devastating 17-year civil war, was open for business to foreign investors. 
 Across the border, South African officials were worried that malaria was scaring away tourists. South Africa and Swaziland agreed to join Mozambique in 1999 to fight malaria in the region. 
 Seventy percent of financing for the first three years came from a coalition of 145 South African businesses, which contributed $2.6 million, and BHP Billiton, which kicked in $1.2 million.
 Clinics throughout southern Mozambique were supplied with more powerful medicines. The smelter alone distributed 6,141 bed nets -- the newest of which repel mosquitoes for five years. And house-to-house indoor spraying of insecticides was begun, including the targeted use of DDT, which remains controversial. 
 Fears that uncontrolled outdoor spraying of DDT would contaminate ecosystems led many nations, including the United States, to ban the pesticide. 
 Dr. Barreto of the Health Ministry argues that Mozambique should stick to more expensive pesticides that are less risky for the environment. But his superiors were swayed by the World Health Organization's approval of DDT's limited use for malaria control and by South Africa's resumption of its use in 2000 after a four-year break, during which malaria resurged. 
 Dr. Barreto said the government now planned to apply the indoor spraying of pesticides throughout the country. One day recently, a team of four sprayers hiked down the dirt paths of a neighborhood in Patrice Lumumba, a settlement on the outskirts of Maputo. At nearly every house, residents had a tale of malaria. 
 Jacinto Maela, 38, a laboratory analyst, hauled buckets of corn and water into his dirt yard. ''This is very welcome,'' he said, ''because we suffer a lot from malaria. I have had it three times. The last time, I was off work for three weeks.'' 
 Tvete Dimande, medical chief of Maputo's health department, said the campaign's impact was obvious at the clinics. ''Previously the hospitals were filled with malaria cases,'' she said. ''People were lying everywhere. Now that number is being reduced.'' 
 ''They should have done this a long time ago,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A woman carried her son from a clinic near an aluminum smelter in Beluluane. The clinic was built to help curb malaria in the area.
 In Patrice Lumumba, on the outskirts of Maputo, a municipal worker sprayed a house with insecticide. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Map of Mozambique highlighting Beluluane: Beluluane became a focal point in Mozambique's anti-malaria drive. (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (90%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); PESTICIDES (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%) 

ORGANIZATION: Billiton (Co)

PERSON: Sharon Lafraniere

GEOGRAPHIC: MOZAMBIQUE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); SWAZILAND (79%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (79%) South Africa; Swaziland; Mozambique; Africa

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



594 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Maine Struggling to Revive Ailing Economy

BYLINE: By ARIEL SABAR

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Me., June 28 

 BODY:
Maine was the only state besides Louisiana to see a decline in economic activity last year, according to a new Federal Reserve study.
 The state lost 1,700 manufacturing jobs and 800 financial jobs, said the report, which was posted on the Web site of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The losses were partly offset by gains in education, health services, professional and business services, and government. 
The study looked at four areas: job growth, the unemployment rate, wage income and factory workers' average weekly hours. 
 While Maine has a consistently strong summer tourist industry, the state is struggling to retool its year-round economy after decades of mill closings, analysts said. 
 Maine's population is one of the nation's oldest, in part because many college graduates leave for jobs in other states. The state's latest setback came this spring, when the Georgia-Pacific Corporation closed a 146-year-old paper plant. Some 400 workers lost their jobs.
 ''Our manufacturing base is just disappearing,'' said Michael R. Donihue, a professor at Colby College in Waterville, who sits on a public board in charge of state economic forecasts. ''We had been looking for more of a boost last year in the overall services sector, particularly finance and health care, and it didn't come through.''
 The state economist, Catherine J. Reilly, said, ''The challenge is that the individuals who are losing manufacturing jobs aren't necessarily those who are gaining high-paying jobs in growing sectors in the economy.''
 Maine's job numbers last year were flat, compared with 0.6 percent growth for New England and 1.5 percent for the nation. 
 Also last year, the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard and Brunswick Naval Air Station were briefly on a list of military bases to be closed, which would have eliminated thousands of jobs. A procurement tussle in Washington put Maine's largest manufacturer, Bath Iron Works, at risk of losing a major contract, and the Bank of America purchase of MBNA raised the possibility of thousands of job losses at rural call centers. 
 Although those fears never materialized, officials said uncertainty dampened spending by businesses and residents. 
 Alan Stearns, a senior policy adviser to Gov. John Baldacci, said the Federal Reserve's economic activity index failed to reflect what state officials viewed as a promising trend: middle-age professionals moving to Maine for the scenic setting and low cost of living, while commuting or telecommuting to jobs in other states.
 ''We have a booming southern coastline with people moving to Maine, while their jobs are staying in New York or Washington or Boston,'' Mr. Stearns said. 
 Still, others say that Maine will lag behind the rest of New England unless it takes bolder steps to cut taxes and retrain for new jobs. Dr. John Fitzsimmons, president of the Maine Community College System, said that about 4,200 technical jobs in health care, manufacturing and construction went begging or were filled by people from out-of-state because of a shortage of slots in Maine's associate degree programs. 
 ''What you have is a local work force not being upgraded for job opportunities that already exist in the home state,'' Dr. Fitzsimmons said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the decline in Maine's economy referred incorrectly to the fate of one employer, Brunswick Naval Air Station. It was chosen for closure; it was not just briefly on a list of bases to be closed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TRENDS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); PAPER MILLS (77%); PAPER MFG (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); DISMISSALS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); NAVIES (67%); TOURISM (56%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); TELECOMMUTING (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (84%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (83%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (83%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (83%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Ariel Sabar

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%) MAINE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Maine

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



595 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: One Nation, Under One Roof

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The American Revolution was fought in a climate of anticipation. Enlightened thinkers around the world hoped that America's new spirit of freedom would unleash a political, economic and cultural renaissance.
 ''A new Greece will perhaps give birth on the continent to new Homers,'' predicted the Abbe Raynal, the French philosophe. Horace Walpole speculated: ''The next Augustan age will dawn on the other side of the Atlantic. There will, perhaps, be a Thucydides at Boston, a Xenophon at New York, and, in time, a Virgil at Mexico.''
 It didn't end up quite that gloriously. Many of the 18th-century figures assumed that economic growth and cultural genius were part of one thing -- progress -- and that in an atmosphere of freedom they would rise together. But in America it became clear that commerce and culture were different things, and that while commerce surged, culture lagged. 
 Before long, people noticed that the United States had become divided into, as Van Wyck Brooks put it, ''two publics, the cultivated public and the business public, the public of theory and the public of activity, the public that reads Maeterlinck and the public that accumulates money.''
 Still, throughout the 19th century these two publics did at least talk to each other. Both were obsessed with one subject: the meaning of America. Whether they were tycoons, politicians, theologians or artists, Americans of the 19th century tended to assume that history had a storyline, and that the United States had a distinct and climactic role in its unfolding. 
 Much of the conversation was about America's meaning and providential role. And this conversation is the subject of two fantastic museums that are reopening Saturday, after six years of renovation, in Washington. 
 The National Portrait Gallery tells the story of American history through its great personalities. The Smithsonian American Art Museum tells the story of its art. Through an accident of history, the two museums share a single building, the old Patent Office Building, which Walt Whitman called the noblest building in the city.
 The museums have always existed uneasily together. Six years ago, the curators of the Portrait Gallery were furious because the Art Museum was taking advantage of the renovation to seize most of their building's best spaces. And even Tuesday, as the directors of the two museums led me around, there were moments of awkwardness, as they vied over tour routes, interpretations and which museum's tote bag I would use to hold the press materials. 
 But for the regular visitor, the end product is exhilarating. What you see within these two museums' interlocking spaces is the great conversation about the American identity. Here in the Art Museum are George Catlin's dignified portraits of Indians; there in the Portrait Gallery is a defiant bust of the Indian-fighter, Andrew Jackson. Here's an elegant painting by John Singer Sargent; there's a portrait of a slovenly P. T. Barnum. Here's a W.P.A. mural celebrating harmony and plenty; there's a portrait of the Scottsboro Boys. 
 There are jarring transitions between the two museums. And it's weird to be in a building with dueling narratives. But this is the cacophonous reality of America. 
 The building's finest spaces are on the third floor, where the two museums hold their material from the past 50 years. A lot of great stuff is there -- including a mesmerizing David Hockney installation -- but the conversation stops. The two museums no longer reverberate against each other.
 That's because around 1960 the art world and much of the intellectual world lost faith in the idea that history has a storyline and that America has a distinct role in it. This week, Blake Gopnik spoke for the art establishment in his review of the museums in The Washington Post, arguing that there is no essentially American culture -- no transcendent thing we Americans share simply because we happen to inhabit the same nation-state.
 So the artists have gone off to have a conversation about themselves. But most people who tour these museums will feel a transcendent thing called Americanness deep in their bones. They will understand what George Orwell meant when he said your country ''is your civilization, it is you.'' And today, when America is unpopular and the whole concept of Americanness is encrusted with cliches and conspiracy theories, they'll feel thrilled to get back and touch the real America, the real conversation, which has been so triumphantly presented in the old Patent Office Building in downtown D.C. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%) United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%) National Portrait Gallery; Smithsonian American Art Museum

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



596 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Charges 13 With Taping Movies Inside Theaters 

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Thirteen men were arrested in New York City yesterday and charged with being part of two movie piracy rings that have made and distributed half of all the counterfeit movies in the United States, federal law enforcement officials said. 
 The men operated a sophisticated counterfeiting operation with storefront offices in East Harlem that copied major movies, mostly on opening day, and quickly distributed them around the world over the Internet, officials said.
The rings are two of the largest in the world, Mark J. Mershon, assistant director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said at a press conference announcing the arrests.
 He and Michael Robinson, vice president of American anti-piracy operations for the Motion Picture Association of America, said movies were often recorded at theaters in New York City and its suburbs and then sent over the Internet to distribution hubs in Pakistan, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia.
 They said that it was hard to estimate how much the operations were worth, but that the economic impact on attendance at theaters and the sale of legitimate videotapes and DVD's was in the billions of dollars.
 A criminal complaint unsealed in Federal District Court in Manhattan yesterday named 22 defendants, including 9 who had not yet been arrested, and charged them with criminal copyright infringement and conspiring to traffic in counterfeit motion pictures.
 The complaint describes a network of movie pirates. These include ''cammers,'' who go to movies to record them on hand-held camcorders; printers, who steal advertising images and turn them into DVD and video packaging; and retailers who sell the movies on the street.
 One cammer, officials said, made as much as $400,000 a year by delivering two or three recordings of new movies a week.
 At the conference yesterday, officials handed out low-quality full-color wrappers for DVD's of ''Superman Returns,'' which opens this week, and said they had shut down the two syndicates before they had a chance to copy and distribute the movie.
 The movie makers even employed ''bumpers,'' the complaint says, whose job it was to occupy strategically located seats to keep the sightlines to the screen open for the cammers, to hide what was going on and to minimize noise and disruption.
 In one recent advance in quality, officials said, the movie makers had been plugging their sound equipment into the jacks that some theaters provide for the earphones of people with hearing impairments.
 ''Their product is pretty darn good,'' Mr. Mershon said.
 One of the defendants accused of being a distributor, Tall Tejon, operated at various times out of storefronts in Harlem, including sites at 119th Street and Third Avenue and Madison Avenue between 116th and 117th Streets, the complaint says, and often bought counterfeit master copies from another defendant, Mohammed Lakhdar, during meetings at a Dunkin' Donuts on 116th Street.
 Buying or possessing counterfeit movies is not illegal, said William J. Shannon, deputy director of anti-piracy for the Motion Picture Association. But he and Mr. Robinson said that in their view, knowingly patronizing counterfeiters was akin to stealing a DVD from a video store.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FILM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); COPYRIGHT (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%) Motion Pictures; Copyrights; Counterfeit Merchandise; Motion Pictures; Recordings and Downloads (Video)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%) Federal Bureau of Investigation

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis; Mark Mershon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%) New York City; Pakistan; Singapore; Hong Kong; Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



597 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew at a 5.6% Pace, Fastest in More Than 2 Years

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The economy sprang out of a year-end rut and zipped ahead in the opening quarter of this year at a 5.6 percent pace, the fastest in 2 1/2 years and even stronger than previously thought.
 The new snapshot of gross domestic product for the January-to-March period exceeded the 5.3 percent growth rate estimated a month ago, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. The upgraded reading -- based on more complete information -- matched economists' forecasts. 
The stronger GDP figure mostly reflected an improvement in the country's trade deficit, which was much less of a drag than previously estimated.
 Gross domestic product measures the value of all goods and services produced within the United States and is considered the best barometer of the country's economic fitness.
 Fresher barometers, however, suggest the economy is shifting into a lower gear in the current quarter.
 In a separate report, the Labor Department said that new claims filed for unemployment benefits last week rose by 4,000 to 313,000 -- a bit more than economists were expecting.
 Economists predict that economic growth in the April-to-June quarter probably slowed to a pace of around 2.5 percent to 3 percent. High energy prices and a more moderate housing market will play roles in the expected slowdown in overall economic activity.
 If that turns out to be the case, the economy will have registered a seesaw-like pattern of growth in the last few quarters.
 The opening quarter's energetic performance followed a lethargic showing in the closing quarter of 2005 when the economy grew by a feeble 1.7 percent pace. Fallout from the Gulf Coast hurricanes, including high energy prices, prompted belt tightening by people and businesses.
 Consumers and businesses came roaring back in the first quarter, though, a main reason why the overall economy performed so well.
 Consumers boosted spending in the first quarter at a 5.1 percent pace, compared to a meager 0.9 percent growth rate in the fourth quarter.
 Businesses ramped up spending on equipment and software at a brisk 14.8 percent pace, up from a 5 percent growth rate in the prior quarter.
 And, companies' profits continued to grow briskly. One measure of after-tax profits in the GDP report showed profits rose 13.8 percent in the first quarter. It was the second consecutive quarter of such strong growth.
 The trade picture improved as imports didn't grow as much as previously estimated. That meant the trade deficit shaved only 0.24 percentage point from GDP, compared with a 0.55 percentage-point reduction calculated a month ago.
 An inflation gauge closely watched by the Fed showed that core prices -- excluding food and energy -- rose 2 percent in the first quarter. That was the same as last month's estimate and was down from a 2.4 percent advance in the fourth quarter.
 The inflation reading, however, was taken before oil prices shot up to a record high of $75.17 a barrel in late April. They are now hovering above $72 a barrel.
 To fend off inflation, which has been creeping up, the Federal Reserve was expected to boost interest rates at the end of its two-day meeting Thursday. The Fed's goal is to rate interest rates enough to prevent inflation from taking off but not so much as to hurt economic activity.
 Job growth lost momentum heading in the summer.
 Employers boosted payrolls by just 75,000 in May, the fewest new jobs since October.
 President Bush, coping with low job-approval ratings, hopes Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) chief Henry Paulson -- the man who has been confirmed to be the next treasury secretary -- will breath new life in the administration's economic agenda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WEATHER (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006



598 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

GOOGLE PAYMENT SERVICE Google is introducing a service that will let users make purchases from online stores using payment and shipping information they keep on file with Google. [Page C1.]

ACCUSATIONS AGAINST BP Federal regulators charged that BP manipulated the price of propane two years ago by cornering the market through its dominant position, pushing up heating costs for millions at the peak of winter demand. [C1.] 


MUSICAL BIDDING WAR Years of jockeying to combine two of the world's biggest music companies, the EMI Group and the Warner Music Group, has escalated with the two now bidding to take over one another. EMI said yesterday that it had raised its recent bid for Warner Music to $31 a share, or about $4.6 billion. Warner then turned the tables and extended an offer for EMI of roughly $4.6 billion, to be financed mainly by debt. EMI dismissed the bid as ''wholly unacceptable.'' [C1.]

SUMMER OF CAR DEALS American car shoppers have learned that summer is the season of big discounts, and this year is shaping up no differently, with some discounts amounting to savings of 20 percent or more. [C1.]

HEDGE FUND TESTIMONY A former investigator for the Securities and Exchange Commission told Congress on Wednesday how senior S.E.C. officials gave in to what he described as political pressure and stopped his investigation of suspected insider trading by a prominent hedge fund. [C3.]

AD FORECAST LOWERED A leading forecaster of advertising spending has again lowered his estimate for growth in the United States in 2006. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C13.]

NEW CHAIRMAN AT DISNEY The Walt Disney Company announced that John E. Pepper Jr., a former Procter & Gamble chief executive who joined Disney's board early this year, had been appointed non-executive chairman. [C13.]

STOCKS ADVANCE The Dow Jones industrial average gained 48.82 points to finish at 10,973.56. The Standard & Poor's 500 added 6.80 points to end at 1,246. The Nasdaq advanced 11.59 points to close at 2,111.84. [C15.]

INSURANCE WOES IN FLORIDA Many Florida residents are scouring for homeowners' insurance after two ferocious hurricane seasons and struggling to pay for what they find. [A16.]

F.A.A. CUTS The Federal Aviation Administration, in a three-pronged approach to cutting its costs, is halting many personnel transfers in its air traffic system, reducing the staffing levels for air traffic controllers and evaluating layoffs of weather forecasters. [A16.]

MALARIA FIGHT Wielding a combination of new medicines, better bed nets, old-fashioned pesticides and data analysis, the mining company Billiton and its partners in business and government have made major inroads in the fight against malaria in Mozambique. [A1.]

ORTHOPEDIC PRICING For years, makers of artificial hips and other orthopedic devices have benefited from their pricing power. But that may not last much longer. [C4.]

MAINE'S STRUGGLING ECONOMY Maine was the only state besides Louisiana to see a decline in economic activity last year, according to a new Federal Reserve study. [A17.]

BATTLE FOR GAZPROM SPOT Two outsiders are trying to join Gazprom's board, which has been a tight combination of government ministers and well-heeled businessmen for most of its 15-year existence. [C9.]

RUSSIA'S NUCLEAR REVAMPING Russia has unveiled details of a plan to reorganize the country's myriad nuclear power plants, agencies, institutes and departments into a single state company modeled on Gazprom. Underscoring the source of its economic inspiration, the name of the enterprise is likely to be Atomprom, Sergei V. Kiriyenko, above, the director of the Atomic Energy Agency, said. [C9.]

ENTER THE AVON MAN The Avon lady isn't what she used to be. For one, she isn't always a woman. [G1.]

RADAR IS REVIVED Radar, the pop-culture glossy publication, is being resurrected. [C6.]

INDIANA WINS HONDA PLANT Indiana won the race to land a Honda assembly plant. [C4.]

ONLINE

ONLINE: DEALBOOK A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

DIGITAL PHOTOGRAPHY Digital scrapbooking, watching whales in high-def and tips from the pros can be found at nytimes.com/technology.

A SOCIALITE IN THE CROWD Designers are recruiting socialites for ads, hoping to sprinkle status on handbags. A report is at nytimes.com/style.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

ANADARKO PETROLEUM, which agreed last week to buy Kerr-McGee and Western Gas Resources, plans to sell its Canadian subsidiary and use the proceeds to repay debt. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

MICHAEL JACKSON is moving to Europe, has fired his business managers and has hired a New York-based firm. He has been living in Bahrain since he was acquitted of child molestation charges a year ago. (ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LINEAR TECHNOLOGY, Macrovision and Asyst Technologies said a United States attorney's office is seeking information related to stock option grants. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Warner Music Group shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); PROPANE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); WEATHER (69%); INSIDER TRADING (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (64%); ORTHOPEDICS (61%); MALARIA (60%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (60%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (94%); GOOGLE INC (91%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); DIS (NYSE) (82%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (94%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



599 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Discounts. Cheap Gas. 0%.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Bulging, Detroit Rolls Out the Incentives

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 28 

 BODY:
To many car shoppers, $5,000 off might sound like the deal of the year. The truth is, it might not even be the best deal this week.
 Tyson Loffredo, a 30-year-old pizzeria owner in a town near Las Vegas with his eye on a new Dodge Durango Limited, hopes to squeeze even more savings from the big sport utility vehicle's $36,000 sticker price before he commits.
''We were getting ready to go out and buy,'' Mr. Loffredo said, when he heard that Chrysler plans to introduce a new, possibly deeper round of discounts for July. ''So we're kind of holding off to see what they're going to do,'' he said.
 American car shoppers have learned that summer is the season of big discounts, and this year is shaping up to be no different, with some discounts amounting to savings of 20 percent or more. 
 General Motors' newest deal, which starts Thursday, could be worth about $8,400 to someone who buys a Chevrolet Tahoe S.U.V., while Ford's program would save the purchaser of a Five Hundred full-size sedan around $5,300 in interest and gas. In a special promotion lasting only a short while, G.M. offered a $1.99-a-gallon cap for one year on the price of gas in California, Florida and Tennessee.
 The pattern was set last summer when General Motors introduced employee-discount pricing for everyone. Ford and Chrysler followed suit, buyers flocked to dealerships and sales soared. 
 That cleared a lot of inventory off dealer lots. But sales slumped once the deals were gone, taking Detroit's market share to the lowest level in history. 
 With inventories bulging again and Asian companies making record sales, Detroit automakers are now seeing that they must offer another eye-popping round of promotions to clear out all the cars and trucks that have been sitting too long on dealer lots. 
 It's a habit the Detroit auto companies, which lost billions of dollars last year in North America, would like desperately to break so they could earn a profit in their primary business. 
 Despite all of Detroit's claims to have abandoned the fire-sale mentality of the past, the companies' actions suggest otherwise. 
 ''The manufacturers have pretty much trained society that they're going to come out with something in June,'' said James Lopez, a sales director at Powell Chevrolet in Dallas. Mr. Lopez said he expected to sell almost as many cars from now to next Wednesday, when the deal ends, as he did in the previous four weeks.
 The Chrysler Group, a division of DaimlerChrysler, is expected to bring back employee pricing this weekend. Dieter Zetsche, DaimlerChrysler's chief executive, would not disclose the company's plans during a meeting with reporters Wednesday in Detroit. But he acknowledged reintroducing employee discounts is ''one of the options.''
 Several Chrysler dealers said they had been told the company will also give customers no-interest financing, to match similar offers by Ford Motor Company and General Motors, and 30 days to return their cars if they are dissatisfied.
 Ford fired the first salvo in this summer's incentive battle in early June with its ''Drive On Us'' campaign, offering no-interest financing and at least $1,000 worth of free gas to buyers of most 2006 models.
 G.M. is beginning a promotion Thursday that will last through the Fourth of July and let buyers of all but its most popular 2006 vehicles take out an interest-free loan of up to six years. 
 The new discounts are being spurred by rising inventories. Chrysler dealers in May had enough cars to last an average of 77 days, well above the 60 days considered ideal. G.M. reported an 84-day inventory in May.
 The backlogs for Honda and Toyota, which have much lower production volumes but higher demand, are less than half that. The danger for Detroit, of course, is that the discounts may lead to a perception that the vehicles it builds are not worth buying unless they are on sale. 
 ''It undermines the integrity of the product because it sends the message that this is not worth what the manufacturer's asking for it,'' said John Casesa, managing partner of Casesa Strategic Advisers in New York.
 ''The longer it goes on, the more destructive it is to the brand image and the less likely you'll be able to convince people to pay more for the car at some point,'' Mr. Casesa continued. ''I don't know if some of these brands can be saved because they've been discounted so heavily for so long.''
 Detroit companies are all pledging to bring out new vehicles that will sell without big rebates and other deals. But in the meantime, they are facing a dismal June sales report that has forced them to once again roll out the incentive ammunition.
 The weakness of Ford's sales was cited by Standard & Poor's as one reason it cut Ford's credit rating deeper into junk status Wednesday. It was the third downgrade for Ford in a little over a year. 
 ''The downgrade reflects our view that 2006 will be a more difficult year for Ford than previously anticipated,'' said Robert Schulz, an S.& P. credit analyst. 
 Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives consumers advice on buying cars, predicted Wednesday that Chrysler would report a 7 percent decrease in sales for June compared with last year, Ford would post a 4 percent decline and G.M., a 32 percent falloff. (G.M. was the only automaker offering employee pricing last June, so its sales were much higher for that month.) Meanwhile, Toyota and Honda are expected to post increases.
 Richard Colliver, an executive vice president at American Honda, said the company's June sales would be up ''two or three points'' from 2005.
 ''Sales are coming in pretty strong, so we think we're going to be up,'' Mr. Colliver said at a news conference for Honda's announcement of a new plant in Indiana.
 He did not say whether Honda would match any of the programs that G.M., Ford and Chrysler are offering. ''We're still watching the impact of what the domestics are doing,'' Mr. Colliver said. Jesse Toprak, senior analyst at Edmunds.com, said that this weekend might be the best time this year to buy a car. 
 Incentives may increase throughout the summer, Mr. Toprak said, but inventories of discounted models will become depleted as dealers prepare for 2007 models to arrive.
 ''If you're looking for a certain model with particular options,'' he said, ''you might not find it in September.''
 Some dealers said showroom traffic had dropped off in recent weeks, most likely because consumers sensed new discounts were coming.
 ''It's been just kind of stagnant when it should be our busy time,'' said Darren Militscher, general sales manager at Metro Chrysler Jeep in Philadelphia.
 Chrysler plans to announce its new discounts Friday morning and put them into effect Saturday. To bolster sales over the long July Fourth weekend, Chrysler is asking dealerships to stay open until midnight.
 G.M. hope its brief ''72-hour sale'' will quickly draw customers into dealerships. But analysts said it might have to continue with some promotion to match its rivals. 
 G.M. executives insist they have no such plans. The automaker has been trying to shift from heavy discounts to setting sticker prices closer to the amount customers are willing to pay.
 Earlier this year, G.M. cut the suggested retail prices on many models by an average of $1,300. That has reduced the amount it spends on incentives but does little to help profit margins.
 Mr. Casesa, the analyst, said he expected that incentives would continue to be an Achilles' heel for Detroit car companies for some time. ''I expect there will be discounting until these companies are sized and structured appropriately for the market,'' he said. ''And that could take a long time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: America's Big Three automakers have to move the metal, and industry analysts say now may be the best time all year to buy. (Photos by above, center, Stephan Savoia/Associated Press
left and right, JB Reed/Bloomberg News. Left, Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 A Chevrolet dealer in Dallas posted a sign for G.M.'s promotion, which could cut $8,400 from the price of a large S.U.V. Ford offers no-interest financing and free gas, and Chrysler is to announce its plans today. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''More Cash on the Hood''American automakers' incentives to shoppers are much bigger than their Japanese rivals.AVG. INCENTIVE PER VEHICLEChryslerMAY '06: $3,668MAY '05: 3,883FordMAY '06: 3,209MAY '05: 2,944General MotorsMAY '06: 2,761MAY '05: 3,711NissanMAY '06: 2,553MAY '05: 1,749HondaMAY '06: 922MAY '05: 484ToyotaMAY '06: 886MAY '05: 1,063(Source by Edmunds.com)(pg. C1)Chart: ''More Merchandise on the Lots''Dealers of American vehicles have more inventory than those that sell Japanese brands.Days' supply of vehiclesChryslerMAY '06: 77MAY '05: 65Dodge DurangoMAY '06, MOST INVENTORY*: 142Dodge Stratus CoupeMAY '06, LOWEST INVENTORY: 6FordMAY '06: 73MAY '05: 76Lincoln LSMAY '06, MOST INVENTORY*: 211Freestar/Windstar vanMAY '06, LOWEST INVENTORY: 34General MotorsMAY '06: 84MAY '05: 72Hummer H2 SUTMAY '06, MOST INVENTORY*: 153Pontiac SolsticeMAY '06, LOWEST INVENTORY: 20NissanMAY '06: 66MAY '05: 62TitanMAY '06, MOST INVENTORY*: 100SentraMAY '06, LOWEST INVENTORY: 40HondaMAY '06: 38MAY '05: 45Acura MDXMAY '06, MOST INVENTORY*: 96FitMAY '06, LOWEST INVENTORY: 6ToyotaMAY '06: 30MAY '05: 29Land CruiserMAY '06, MOST INVENTORY*: 109Scion xAMAY '06, LOWEST INVENTORY: 9*Excludes discontinued models(Source by Autodata Corporation)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SALES MANAGEMENT (69%); MARKET SHARE (67%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Automobiles; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles; Sales

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (58%) Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) California; Florida; Tennessee

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



600 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: A Resonance That Shaped a Vision of Freedom

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The words are carefully written in pencil on top of a page torn from spiral notebooks: ''Loving Your Enemies.'' They are scribbled hastily on a torn, creased sheet, cutting across its ruled lines: ''We come to the seat of government.'' They are squeezed into the yellowed margins of annotated books: ''Religion must work here.'' They are written on a frayed slip of paper, folded as if long-carried in a wallet: ''Gandhi speaks for us.''
 And they appear in red ink boldly printed across a telegram invitation from the White House to witness the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: ''Important!!''
They are in college exam booklets, on stationery from the Waldorf-Astoria, on mimeographed handouts, on files of alphabetized index cards titled Abelard, Agape, Agnosticism and America. And they are sometimes reused, evolving from a quickly penned phrase on the back of a typescript -- ''Today the whirlwinds of revolt are shaking our nation'' -- into something more resonant: ''The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges.'' 
 Such are the words of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., found in his sermons, letters, speeches and notes. And seeing so many of them together -- displayed over 20,000 square feet at Sotheby's in New York -- makes it possible to come in intimate contact with an extraordinary mind that shaped the civil rights movement and gave new texture to the American dream. These writings -- selected from a 7,000-page cache of Dr. King's papers -- create a chronicle of his life from 1946 until his assassination in 1968. 
 I don't know of another exhibition that has had this kind of serious, unsentimental, documentary force. It is not a museum show designed to tell a story or make a point. It is a collection of personal papers that were originally going to be auctioned tomorrow for what Sotheby's estimated would be $15 million to $30 million. 
 Then, last week, Morehouse College in Atlanta, Dr. King's alma mater, acquired the collection for an undisclosed sum. The auction was canceled. The exhibition remained open to the public, but it will close at 1 p.m. today, leaving just the morning hours to see this display intact before it is dismantled and the documents leave for their new home. 
 They should be patiently and carefully read. Dr. King's Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech is worked through in multiple drafts, each slightly different in tone and pace. Multiple letters from Richard M. Nixon, vice president at the time, firmly support Dr. King's enterprise with more fervor than might have been guessed. There are also less sympathetic letters, including one from the cartoonist Al Capp, suggesting that Dr. King ''bend at least some of your efforts to cleaning up your own mess.''
 There are also school transcripts, including -- shockingly for one of the great speakers of the 20th century -- a grade of C earned in Public Speaking 1 at Crozer Theological Seminary in Pennsylvania in 1949. 
 Elizabeth Muller, who worked on the collection for Sotheby's, said the project took nine years, and involved combing the house of Dr. King's widow, Coretta Scott King, for scraps of paper, finding, most notably, Dr. King's ''sermon box'' with nearly 100 sermons in his hand, most from the 1950's. Each took about 15 hours to prepare; they provide the intellectual and rhetorical repertory -- a set of ideas, phrases and allusions -- that shaped his civil rights vision. The sermons have a remarkable sobriety, a kind of realistic skepticism, about human character.
 In one outline Dr. King writes, ''Life is a continual story of shattered dreams.'' In another he notes, ''We are continuously confronted with circumstances which we did not have the freedom to choose, but'' with ''which we are forced to deal.'' He calls evil a ''stark, grim and colossal reality.'' And he cites a need for ''accepting responsibility for your actions.''
 But these sermons are also suffused with an unremitting advocacy for the powers of love.
 There are display cases of books and papers dealing with Gandhi, and it was his approach to nonviolent protest, of course, that embodied for Dr. King both realism and faith. Neither can be done without.
 ''The law cannot make a man love me -- religion and education must do that,'' Dr. King writes in a 1956 speech, ''but it can keep him from lynching me.'' 
 His approach was an almost religious exercise: protest without rancor, bear punishment without resentment and have faith that change would come -- this at a time when laws forbade interracial dancing and state troopers eagerly attacked peaceful marchers. ''We must respond,'' Dr. King wrote in 1956 when he was organizing the Montgomery bus boycott, ''with an understanding of those who have oppressed us.''
 The religious character of Dr. King's civil rights efforts is well known of course, but the extent of his religious writing emphasizes how central it was. It also helps illuminate that great divide of the mid-60's, when the civil rights movement started to splinter. 
 When the movement was focused on the South, on legislated denigration and hatred, Dr. King's religious model was powerful: we are all of us flawed, all of us struggling, but by demonstrating our faith and conviction, we will be able to change the world, we will have our shared humanity recognized. And fitfully, and over time, it was. 
 But in the Northern cities, where, after 1950, more than a million and a half blacks had moved in just a little more than 15 years, Dr. King's religious model was less resonant. Here the legal structure did not, for the most part, institutionalize racism. 
 Yet poverty and social racism were commonplace, as were anger and resentment. There were also pathologies developing within the black communities like those perceived by the Moynihan Report about the black family. How are images of Israelite redemption and Christian love to deal with complex issues of economics and culture, vocational training and social programs? 
 Dr. King was actually pelted with eggs by blacks in Chicago. He didn't seem to ''get it.'' The growth of the Nation of Islam and the development of Black Power tapped into a very different religious model. It could resemble vulgar Marxism. Race was spoken about as if it resembled notions of class. A revolution was required. It was not simply a matter of outlawing discrimination; it was a matter of requiring that its effects be remedied and the white power structure dismantled. 
 As these papers demonstrate, Dr. King's rhetoric too began to change. He began to think of poverty as a civil rights issue. Some of his colleagues began to worry over his linking the rights movement to his opposition to the Vietnam War. But in his famous speech at Riverside Church in Manhattan in 1967, displayed here, he said, ''We were taking the black young men who had been crippled by our society and sending them 8,000 miles away to guarantee liberties in Southeast Asia which they had not found in southwest Georgia and East Harlem.''
 He looks around the world, he proclaimed, and sees a ''pattern of suppression'' in American policy, aiming to protect the ''immense profits'' the nation earns from ''overseas investment.'' 
 What a different way of thinking these statements reflect, how much less clearly the remedies are defined, and how far the implied vision of redemption is from Dr. King's dream of his children being judged by the content of theircharacter, not the color of their skin. This makes his earlier self seem of another era. The later Dr. King seems more like our contemporaries. Such views, now familiar, risk making the idea of civil rights so broad as to absorb all forms of perceived injustice. 
 But soon afterward, with his murder, everything came to an end. Would Dr. King's thinking have changed if he had lived past those apocalyptic years? His personal papers, with their evidence of his persistent questioning, leave the possibility open. It is one of the many tragedies of that troubled time that we will never know. 

''The Martin Luther King Jr. Collection'' continues today until 1 p.m. at Sotheby's, 1334 York Avenue, at 72nd Street; (212) 606-7000.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marked important by Dr. King: A telegram from the White House inviting him to attend the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. (Photo by Sotheby's)(pg. E1)
 On view at Sotheby's before going to Morehouse College: Dr. King's sermons, letters, speeches and notes. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (74%); ELECTION LAW (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%) Blacks; Auctions; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: Sotheby's; Morehouse College

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); RICHARD NIXON (54%) Edward Rothstein; Martin Luther Jr (1929-68) King

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

 
